ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2510	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you, ask you to take the places and open the 51. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 48 and 49 and 50. The meeting remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. They shall be deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting day, the Members of Parliament are Reitsamer, Dr. Preisinger, Mag. Stoisits and Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2547	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the Federal Government as follows: Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselwird by Ms. State Secretary Dr. Benita Maria Ferrero-Waldner. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2574	We are now arriving at the current hour. As a subject, it is proposed that: "Secretification in Austria" Mr Dr Höchtl spoke. His speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2604	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the topic of "Secretification in Austria" at the present hour. Cects are a matter considered dangerous by the Austrians. When I say that it is considered dangerous by the Austrians, I do not refer exclusively to those events which many of us have had to experience with different victims, but rather to the fact that the phenomenon of sects has been studied in a comprehensive manner in this year. According to this comprehensive, representative study, 65 percent of the Austrian sects are considered as very dangerous, 23 percent as somewhat dangerous, and only 9 percent believe that sects are more harmless. So we see that a total of 88 percent, almost nine out of ten Austrians, call the phenomenon sects dangerous or very dangerous. It is therefore a duty for the House to engage in an intensive and serious discussion of this phenomenon and draw the relevant conclusions from it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not something that would be a singular phenomenon, of which only a few are affected. The current situation in Austria is such that about 50,000 people belong to the so-called hard core of the different sects. And another 200 000 people have joined these different groups as members, as donors. This means that it is already a considerable number of persons who have been recruited by these different groups. Of course you can say that some of them are harmless – but many are not harmless! And that is why we want to protect ourselves, above all, from the youth who could be seduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to a specific youth survey involving 1,200 young people, around 36.5% of young people in large cities are considered to be very vulnerable and 30.5% of young people in rural areas are considered at risk. This is something that those responsible in politics must be concerned about, and it is therefore so important that we devote this current hour to the problem of sects. I really must congratulate the Federal Minister on his courage. A few weeks ago, Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein published the Enlightenment Brochure "Sects – Knowledge Protects". [[The speaker shows the brochure.]] In the first few days, 2,000 calls were made alone via the hotline in the ministry, and already in the few weeks after that, the existing conditions were out of date several times. It has, I believe, already come to the young people of the man, the woman, almost 180 000 copies. It is clear that this is not a serious phenomenon to be neglected, but a serious one with which we must deal rigorously. The following must not be the case: one believes that under the cover of freedom of religion one can separate, separate, and put into trouble people. We are responsible for not doing so. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Which groups are these? – It has become almost unclear how the development has taken place in the individual small and sometimes larger groups. Serial estimates assume that in Austria there are currently about 600 sects, partially conflict-loaded, pseudoreligious organizations, destructive cults – all possible sums up under the collective term "sects". I think it is important to have the signal that the Government and the National Council, as a national council, do not stand in the way of this phenomenon, but do all they can to make it clear, so that many who may be in a position to be integrated into such a group, know what it is all about, and then say no in time. This is the task we have to fulfil. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm just making a few comments on how people can get to sects. I do not want to condemn certain groups on a flat-rate basis, but a person – this is a case that has been accommodated by me myself a few years ago; I then presented in the form of a press conference with this person’s fate – over 18 months, 4.3 million schillings of courses for everything possible – seminars, tests et cetera – have been unleashed through Scientology. That's what it's all about. People are attracted by being invited to a free personal test – and then step by step. The price contributions are getting higher and higher. I have been given a list of this person about what she had to transfer to amounts in these one and a half years of "voluntary" – under quotation marks: 4.3 million schilling. It was laborious to get something back. There are also many smaller organizations that cannot measure by size with Scientology, which are very dangerous for children and young people. Take only the Holosophical Society, where toddlers are stopped for the purpose of meditating with related eyes and silicone stumps in the ears five hours a day. – These are things you need to see that one must warn about! Or – I'm taking a big group now –: The Witnesses of Jehovah, for example, officially include some 21,000 people in Austria and speak out against celebrating birthdays, mother’s days, and the pursuit of individual sports. They reject membership in political organisations, the exercise of the right to vote, the performance of the military service, such as blood transfusions and so on. We must therefore help people with all the possibilities that exist – in criminal law, in civil law, in the family sector and in civil law – with information and advice, and we must not allow in Austria groups that oppose the essential principles of our society to exist. This has nothing to do with religious freedom! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have to carry out information, really help people, give them advice on how to get out of these catches, but above all, how they do not get in. However, we also need to reconsider the law of the association, because the current possibilities are not sufficient. We need to see how we handle this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2713	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2728	For we are concerned with youth, about the people who can be seduced. It is not supposed to make people dependent on religious freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2758	President. — The debate is closed. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2780	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Minister for Family Affairs and Youth, I am very grateful to the House for the fact that this present hour is being carried out by sects on the subject of dangers. Mr Höchtl has already found that almost 90 per cent of Austrians see a danger in the phenomenon of sects. I therefore consider it more than just justified that the High House and the Federal Government should accept this subject in an appropriate way. Ladies and gentlemen! You have already done so, and it was a resolution of the House of 14 May. July 1994, which led us to work in the family resort to develop this sect brochure "Secrets – Knowledge Protects". [[The speaker shows]] It was not easy to compile an author collective that proved competence. It was not easy to motivate the authors to argue very openly. Nor was it easy to carry out the intention of calling sects by name as well; at least 23, honourable Member Höchtl, for all 600 had no place in them. We do not claim completeness in any way, but those 23 sects that appear to us most relevant to Austria are cited. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Never before in my political career, which has lasted for five years, has I received as much interest as in the subject of sects: Nearly 200 000 copies of this brochure have already been shipped – one cannot speak of a bestseller here because it is not sold. We have printed 100 000 copies, so that the brochure has now reached an edition of 250 000. In the first days under the hotline telephone number. 0660/1799 almost 2,000 callers reported and expressed their concern. It is today, more than a month after the first day, still daily to the 300 callers who contact us who are concerned. It should not be flattened here, not all sects are dangerous in every respect – I do not want to say that at all – but there is undoubtedly a accumulation of phenomena in the environment of sects, which we reject and which are actually dangerous. Be it, as it may be: The social development of the last decades has clearly led to the creation of a market in this respect, not only in Austria, but also the use of a real sect tree worldwide. Modern communication technology also makes it easier to come to Europe, to Austria by means of Far East gurus or American healing proclaimers. We have to face this phenomenon, and not only do the churches in this country have this phenomenon, but we also have to face the state. It must remain undisputed that freedom of religion, freedom of belief in our country of course continue to apply fully, but it must also be clear that we cannot take note of phenomena such as the limitation and loss of personality, the forced separation from family and indebtedness, if they concern individual citizens. As Minister of Youth, I say quite clearly: It is of course true that young people in their unfermented maturity are more vulnerable to the phenomenon of sects and therefore we have to be particularly vigilant with them. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is alleged that young people of Scientology, as I was told by the representative of Scientology in the television broadcast "The Matter". But during the show almost a dozen contacts came to Mr. Rabl, editor-in-chief, who was exclusively concerned with the speech of young people through Scientology. – That only to the credibility of some representatives of these pseudo- or non-religious groups. As I have already said, it is an international phenomenon. This is not the case in America but in Germany. One has a different concept of democracy in America than in Germany through the experience of the Weimar Republic. In America, there are former Presidents, such as Mr Bush, who goes to Buenos Aires and there to a Mr. Mun, the founder of the Mun sect of the same name – in conjunction with a fee of no less than $100 000 – and there, to the point that he is a visionary. – It is Mr Bush’s case to call Mr Mun a visionary, but I certainly do not. I find that strange. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nor is it that we in Austria have similar concerns – at least not so far – like the Germans. There one considers that Scientology not only goes far beyond a new religious community, it is not only an economic enterprise, but in fact already a threat to the state and constitution. I can quote you from a report by Professor Abel for the Schleswig-Holstein Government. Mr Abel noted that Scientology was even a new form of political extremism and that his opinion had shown that this sect, that is, Scientology, had a national socialist legal understanding and was actually criminalizing freedom of confession and opinion. – At least this is not an issue in Austria yet. We will be vigilant about this. German states, problems as in Germany through sects I do not yet see for Austria. I'm allowed to report on France for a moment. ==References== In November, a leading judgment against no fewer than 14 members of Scientology was delivered in Lyon. Their leader, a so-called Mr. Mazier, was sentenced to three years in prison. Why? – Because in 1988 a 31-year-old Frenchman named Vic jumped out of the window because he was no longer able to accept either another 30 000 francs credit for a Scientology seminar or to find out another kind of accident. Or: Legal condemnation of Mr. Hubard, the founder of Scientology – even in France, more than a decade ago – to four years of impunity. That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts that we have to put forward. It may seem as if Austria has been spared in some respects from the phenomenon of sects until now, but I am afraid – also the figures of the honourable Member Höchtl confirm that 50,000 Austrians are directly and probably 200 000 Austrians are indirectly affected by sects, which is at least 3% of the population! – that we already have it to do with an iceberg, from which we see only the tip, while the base sleeps under the surface. We are therefore urgently called upon to deepen our knowledge of the phenomenon of sects together, about how far it has already come in Austria, where Scientology and others are already represented, where they have their fingers in play, whether only in religious areas or also in economic areas, or also in areas that concern the state already, which would then lead to new questions, to questions that are already on the tapet in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! The publication of this sect brochure was a first and, as I believe, a good and important step, but only a first step. We're planning for the 27th. January's a comprehensive survey on this subject. We will be vigilant in this area. It must be clear to the sects operating in Austria that both the Federal Government and the High House do not wish to take note of this phenomenon in vain, but, if necessary, all the means of the rule of law will be used to take concrete action against sects in the case of the protection of our citizens and in order to protect our youth. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2886	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. The speaking time for further discussions is 5 minutes. I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2913	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing today with the subject of sects and so-called psychogroups. It will, at least I think, give broad consensus in this House that such groups pose undisputed dangers, dangers to society, dangers, especially, but that has already been addressed, for young people. The fact that one of the most important measures in this context is to provide information and information is equally undisputed. The statements made by the Federal Minister - to him in particular for the fact that there is now this really excellent brochure - have shown that there was and is a great need for information. This is evident from the fact that 250,000 brochures have now been distributed and thousands of calls have been made in the first few weeks and several hundred calls are still available every day to receive this brochure. The problem we have in connection with sects and such psycho-groups is, of course, that there is something like a lack of tangibleness of these groups, and that, although we can prove more or less that there is a quantitative increase, there is an increase in such groups that are ineligible in Austria; Unbeing in the truest sense of the word. I believe it is necessary to oppose these groups with all determination; groups which, on the one hand, make economic demands to their members, sympathizers, where economic exploitation is also taking place, on the other hand, also totalitarian claims which must be met. The point that I think is very important, and with regard to which the House should set up joint initiatives, is the question of the handling of these groups. How do we actually deal with such sects and psychogroups, with groups seeking legal recognition as a community of faith? – We do not want to undermine the human right to freedom of belief, we naturally advocate freedom of belief, but we must experience in truth seeing eyes that there are psychogroups and sects that destroy human lives, which, I have said, are exploiting financially, in which there is sexual abuse and the like. This means that the question is: What measures do we find to prevent, on the one hand, genuine religious communities from defending the human right to freedom of belief but, on the other hand, to take decisive action against the abuse of people? It is therefore up to all political groups to ask what possibilities there may be for cooperation in this area. It seems to me to be very important to me that it is very important because, on the one hand, information and information, such as with this excellent brochure of the Ministry of Youth, have taken place as a correct approach, but on the other hand, we also need to consider legal measures together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] You too, Mr Wabl, could think about it, consider legal measures, how we can face up to the phenomenon of the sects; this phenomenon, which has also destroyed a great many lives in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2968	Mrs Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e2989	Mr President. Minister! High house! The long-standing expert and observer of the sect scene, Hugo Stamm, by the way, also editor of the "Zürcher Tages Anzeiger", in his recent book "Sects in the Ban of Addiction and Power" on the danger of sects and similar groups – they prefer to hear the name "Weltschaussungsgruppen" – the following – literal quote: "If this time appearance does not break the top, sects and totalitarian groups will become a modern addiction phenomenon to the socially and psychiatricly relevant problem which health care could soon be burdened. Perhaps then politicians and authorities will no longer be able to deal seriously with the unwholesome development." We know that the phenomenon of sects and totalitarian groups is almost as old as the religious and political longings of people – that is also true of the tribe. But the activities that these individual groups are developing with ever-increasing tendencies are now gratifying with an unprecedented virulence. That is why it is important and right for the National Council to deal with these dangers today in the current hour. He does not do this for the first time – as the Minister has already said –: We have already analysed this subject sufficiently and in detail in a hearing with experts in 1993. In a subcommittee of the Family Committee, we have dealt with these problems in a comprehensive way and subsequently with them on 14 November. In July 1994, the National Council unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to set up its own working group, to set up a new sect brochure and to set up information and advice centres. Minister of Education Gehrer has set up a working group and has brought out and imposed on the Minister of Family Bartenstein a remarkable brochure of sects, whose condition was anything but simple. We know how important appropriate measures are to tackle the dangers of these groups, and are constantly and ever more often confronted with dramatic individual fates in the population. The characteristics of such fate are mostly: mental dependence, mental pressure, restriction of personal freedom and independence, changes in identity, economic exploitation, material need, fears of existence, social exclusion. This is the fatal cycle in which many people, especially young people, but also adults, are increasingly affected. The consequences are profound family conflicts that affect children and partners, broken marriages and families, because the main focus is always on the benefits of the respective organization. There cannot therefore be enough information, information and concrete assistance. We need to make people even more sensitive, even more critical of these developments and to make it clear to them that in principle every individual is vulnerable. Therefore, people need to be informed about the methods of these groups, about the objectives, about the real reasons – these are mostly economic – but also about the consequences associated with such accession. You need to know about the intentions of these sense and salvation providers. – Mr Höchtl has already reported on the babies and toddlers who have to meditate for hours. Of course, we are entitled to freedom of religion, faith and thought. That's a fundamental right! But in many groups there are interferences in personality rights that cannot be accepted, for anyone who invokes a fundamental right must not hurt or forget another. We from SPÖ therefore believe that these dangerous developments must be taken very seriously and we must do everything we can to clarify prophylactically, but also to help those already caught in such catches. We must therefore offer exit aid. That means: We need to create a network that connects all existing advisory bodies, service and information centres of individual ministries, as well as enable better coordination and cooperation among themselves in order to help them efficiently throughout Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3050	Mrs Apfelbeck has come to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3072	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, are here to speak and complain about how bad sects are. You seem to have forgotten that you are in the government, so you could have been able to remedy it for a long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Austria, one has simply underestimated the danger posed by sects – and this, although more and more personal and financial tragedies come to light. Many of these groups bring their members into a dependency that they simply cannot escape. Unfortunately, there is only the brochure "Secrets – Knowledge Protects", which is certainly a first step in the right direction, but no other measures against this threatening development have yet been taken by the rulers. What are sects? – In part, they are organisations that fanatize their followers, pursue economic goals – even if they sometimes call themselves "Church" – and ruin the family. When sects make children fast, escape sleep, cloud their consciousness by breathing exercises, the danger of health, the manipulation of the psyche begins. And if the influence is caused by the creation of a new personality, society simply cannot look away. There is a need for political support. Why does someone go to a sect? Where and how does someone get into a sect? What can be done against a sect? How to advertise? How do sects proceed? – All these are questions about politics. Why are sects so dangerous to the state? – Not only because they are ruining people financially and thereby destroying them as taxpayers, but also because they leave the sick, whose incapacity for work must be compensated by the Community. Why are sects so dangerous for sociological reasons? – Because they deliberately break up family structures so that we can penetrate our community’s germ cells and destroy them – like a cancer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because the goal of the sects is – Scientology is open to it – to degradate its members into a willless tool. Why are the sects successful? – Because they seem to be homeing, giving, prefabricated, simple answers to all problems. An exit is almost impossible. This requires advice, help and legal assistance against sects. A list of the advisory bodies against sects is beautiful, is also media effective, but does not help the affected. For years you have watched the great coalition, with your non-activities you have given the sects the ground so that they can spread their ideologies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For those who once fell into the catch of a sect, there is hardly any escape. This is why policy is very much required to take very energetic steps in this area. Citizens who have lost family members to sects that see their children in danger are not helped with a brochure. They need something solid, a signpost, laws – but they are missing because our federal government has lost the courage to confess color, take a risk and act decisively, as happened in France, Bavaria and in part in the German Bundestag. In this area you have, my Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, need for action!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3154	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3175	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what this is actually about. For ten minutes, honourable Member Höchtl has said that it is not possible to watch a phenomenon in a way that people must be told what they are dealing with. Mr Bartenstein said that it could not be allowed to force families to be separated. Mrs Apfelbeck said that there were laws here, and the coalition was sparse, because she has not abolished the sects until today. – I wonder: Who are you talking about here? Mr Amon has tried a short approach – but really only a short one – to deal with what a sect actually does. Before fraternizing here and talking about the need for us all to act against something, let us think about what we really want to happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] - You know? I congratulate you, that connects you with some others. I think of Bishop Krenn. He too knows exactly what is true. They also know what is true. This brochure seeks to list a criteria catalogue according to which sects can be classified. I wonder if you really thought about this catalogue of criteria if you think it's so clear. It says that there must be a number of criteria here: "the closing of the Community, the clear boundaries between its followers and the outside, the normized practice of living inside". – I think a lot of things happen to me, not only one party or another, but above all I think of recognized religious communities. [[Abg. Großruck: There you have an disturbed relationship!]] Next: "the remote and/or culturally foreign ideas" – only this context, which is expressed here, is remarkable – "the non-medial worlds of faith and life orientations that are fanatically represented". Apart from the fact that it is, of course, a question of definition, when something fanatical is represented, I really wonder who decides here, which is unmedial. What is "absence" to culturally strange ideas? – I admit, there is a "and" and a "or", yet these terms are consciously needed in a context. It is therefore not surprising that, for example, the Buddhists, an ancient religion, have only recently been recognized as a religious community in Austria. Until then, they were obviously qualified as a sect. Then: "Communities that have conflicts with the environment, especially personal conflicts with members' relatives, and legal conflicts with authorities". – Is that supposed to be a criterion for a sect? Is that what you're serious about? So it turns out that someone who desires to be in our country is already suspicious. "The dependence of the members on a charismatic leadership figure or on a hierarchy that authoritarianly determines teaching and practice." - That's a good criterion. Unfortunately, it applies not only to sects but also to other organizations. What I want to say is: Cects are an essential phenomenon in which we have to deal with and against which one must invent vaccinations, as it were. I believe that it is a necessity for politicians to deal with it. Only: With such brochures we really won't make it, but also with laws we won't make it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that we will not be able to do so with a religious police force, as it once called for by Mr Oellinger. These are reflections in the direction: The state can judge everything. Interestingly, you are all in agreement! I think it is a matter of addressing the causes, why people, especially young people, are looking for such grips on them. Mrs Mertel has said that we should give people something they can focus on. Do you not believe that it is much more sensible to train critical people, to teach people the thought, to teach questions, and to allow the discussion of values? It's not for people to do everything, is it in a religious class or is it in other packages, and then just to let them decide whether to take it or not? There is no contentious debate at all. And then you think you can do something if you're going to find out later. With the later Enlightenment, it will not be done if you are not able from the outset to seek your way. On this criticalness, this ability to think, to educate people, this should be decided by this Parliament, but not by ominous brochures of Enlightenment, whose criteria are more than to be questioned and which are, moreover, borne by a self-righteousness of Christian culture. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] This becomes apparent when one says it is suspicious when something comes from outside, so it is strange and therefore not traceable. This is an expression of how one has been associated with Christian religions for centuries. Do not forget that these 300 years or more have also been referred to as sects.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3233	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3254	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can already thank Mrs Schmidt if she expresses any dissatisfaction with this debate. So far, many of the debates have actually been committed to strengthening this discomfort. I also believe that it is not appropriate to fight against sects and destructive cults simply because of the fact that a brochure has been published. You have published a brochure in which, as you have pointed out, you, Dr. Schmidt, have also been shown to contain criteria that are of course not only applicable to sects and destructive cults, but also to many other groups in this society. So we should ask ourselves what a catalogue of criteria that is. However, it will also be necessary to ask what matters when dealing with sects. If you, Mrs Dr Schmidt, accuse me of asking the religious police, then I can only tell you that this was in a very concrete debate, in a very concrete situation, and I am standing for that. It is not about receiving a religious police force in Austria that is being sniffed into all sects and destructive cults. It is not about covering these sects and destructive cults, so to speak, on criteria, but it is very likely that the debate on sects and destructive cults, especially on the latter, will also be made clear that there are certain groups which, in their influence on state, social institutions and groups, already go very far. It is not only about the right to freedom of religion and to continue to exist, but it is also about protecting the individual from abuses of certain cults, which then, when people have become victims, give employment to the state. That is to say, the people who then fall out of these religious communities, from these cults that are persecuted by them, also provide a corresponding support, to which the state is called more than before. It is really about developing aid, not just with a few hundred thousand or million schilling, to finance a sect advisory service for the whole of Austria, which is, of course, completely overburdened with the effort it can make. I think the state is actually required, but not in the sense of playing sniffling police. There are religious laws here in Austria dating from the 19th century. From a century ago, there was not at all the phenomenon of this modern destructive cult and sect. That is why we would be asked to check our laws, our relationship with religions. It is all afraid that, in some cases, something that could also create unrest and trouble, not only in the small groups, but also in larger groups, could arise that an argument about religions might arise that would challenge us and should actually challenge us. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it can be done – so much so that I appreciate the work of the ecclesial sect advisory bodies – that the state assigns this task to the great churches. I've seen that before. That would be as if Coca-Cola reviewed the formula of Almdudler. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! Here the state is called upon to set clear criteria, and here you are called on in the debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, when you beat your shoulders and say: We have achieved a lot already! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just about these sects and destructive cults, the small groups, it's about exit aid. For example, what I cannot understand is that members of the “witnesses of Jehovah, ” who have left this group, cannot even provide civil service, for example, because your legislation prevents this from happening. That would be concrete help for sect excavators. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's also about something else. There are far more dangerous sects than the small groups, also far more dangerous than those mentioned in this brochure. It is not mentioned, for example, a "union for psychological human knowledge". It is not mentioned by an association such as "Opus Dei" or the "Engelwerk". [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] In this respect you can read in the "profile" again this week: "Opus Dei – a dangerous sect". It would have been necessary to also talk about expressing what is happening in the area of large churches. I would also like to point out: There are dangerous sects, the worshipers of the Golden Calve – that is what I would call them – that do not value...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3312	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3327	... that know no value other than that of money which does not know any other social values which cause only money to count and that this youth, which you want to protect from the sects, is being driven right into the arms of these sects. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pius Strobl!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3366	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3390	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been following Mrs Motter's mites with great interest, because a few years ago she was still a signatory to a motion for a resolution to finally take action against sects. I remember she was there at the time too. One of the demands you signed here was the publication of an Enlightenment Brochure against sects, which was done with this. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: objective and feasible!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Member of the European Parliament and Chairman of the Liberal Forum! I have understood your entry into your speech to be grossly negligent when it comes to protecting young people and adults from the new dangers of our time. I believe that this is one of the most essential threats, and your insolence has almost led me to put you in the direction of allies. Finally, you said a few sentences, where I then felt that this would not be the case. Nevertheless, I think your speech was marked by a lack of responsibility and insidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about sects and new cult objects, you can say: They all have something in common. They cut down the freedom of individual, his independence, and they exercise strictly hierarchically structured power and control over their members. No one would voluntarily join or join such a group because of these characteristics. We have to ask ourselves today why there is such a great offer. Surely this increase in the sects today is also in the needs of today's times, in the search for hold, for confidence, for being adopted, for being loved, for help and for community. We also need to think at this hour whether we should not encourage everyone to take more intensive care of the other family members in the family and show them that they are liked and to show them what opportunities they are given and what feelings they feel. The speed of time often brings fear of the future. The non-competence brings search for orientation. And here these groups are often seen as the best means or as a problem solution because they offer their goals, the hold so clearly. And right there is the trap! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Cases that should give us thought: on the one hand, starting from the baby, the so-called squealing of the youth, finally also the administration of the youthful fate and the inability to do so. Even if much help comes, this is only possible in least cases. A broken young person, usually economically and psychologically ruined, remains behind. But adults too are often attracted to courses under the pretext of education, training and more opportunities in the profession and society and are driven into financial hardships that can ultimately end up in suicide – as the example in Lyons, which then led to condemnation. The fate of the relatives and the families must deal with us in particular and go to the heart. That's why we need to help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also feel supported by the Austrian Society for Human Rights, which shows some examples here. Some have already been mentioned, for example the case with the Babies, but also the sect of the "Sahaya Yoga", which recommends to drag children abroad – we have seen the case of a mother on the show "To the cause". The courts in Austria, I believe, have found here a special sensorium and a reasonable language arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have to work on different tracks. The most important thing, however, is to offer help on the one hand, so that one does not fall into this case. This applies to adults and children. On the other hand – and for this, this sect brochure is very important – we must do everything we can to actively help those people who are so to speak in this fate and are due to them again into society.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3447	The next speaker is Mrs Brigitte Tegischer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3471	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to highlight this topic of today's present hour from the point of view of the youth speaker of SPÖ and as a long-term youth caretaker. That more and more people, especially young people, are drawn to pseudoreligious groups is not a surprising trend for me. In times of rapid social change, fears and uncertainties are growing, and especially among young people, the factors are that they are at a stage of development, that they want to get rid of the parents' home, that they are looking for new references and trustees, that they are disappointed by our society, by the prevailing materialism, by the emotional cold, by egoism and by the hustle and bustle that prevails around them, and that they have, above all, the need – that we all have – for a deeper sense of life they want to understand. When factors of a broken family with all the problems are added and some factors are particularly serious in young people, they are at risk of sects. Young people join a sect or a group of worldviews because they usually offer fast solutions and recipes for those problems, and because they hope for relief and relief. The danger of sects is that they address mainly the following human needs: the need for care and attention, the need for used-being, the need for useful-being that one can live out his creative abilities that the Self-esteem is strengthened to have a sense of belonging, but also to have power over others, to be omniscient and the need to be able to adapt to manageable life models. All those things and needs try to cover sects or just such groups. Ladies and gentlemen! You will certainly agree with me that each and every one of us feels addressed by one or more of the areas I have mentioned. I think it is legitimate for the individual citizen and especially young people to try to bring solutions to achieve life's happiness and sense of life. We politicians are therefore called upon to take as far-reaching measures as possible and to create framework conditions so that young people have no reason to be so disappointed by society that they turn their backs on it and join a sect-like group. A very important step is this brochure. But further steps are educational actions at schools, in parental and family counsellors – my suggestion: also in youth centres and youth meetings. The caregivers are often trusted for young people. I will go one step further and say that young people should be supported in their development to provide them with assistance for their problems so that they can find prospects for their future. One should recognize their abilities, promote their creativity and take measures to increase their self-confidence and self-esteem, or to enable them to take immediate action to shape their surroundings. They must not be determined by any other means. There is a need for lifelong education in schools and for good care in youth centres and for their right of participation there. Finally, each of us as a politician can make a contribution to this: Many children and young people are disappointed by us politicians, by us people's representatives. According to young people, they are disappointed because they believe that politicians are not honest that we only make promises that we cannot keep, that only before the election we turn to the people, that we are not working enough for a socially just, clean and viable environment. Ladies and gentlemen! Inflation on sects is important, but all the measures I have listed, and our own conduct as politicians, our understanding of the problems of our fellow citizens are preventive steps so that they do not turn our backs on us. We have much to do to prove to our youth that we, and not any sect, can create the conditions for them to live with joy and confidence in our Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3525	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3547	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since my previous speakers have already tailored the danger of the sects and also the tragedy of the fate of those people who have fallen apart, I would like to deal only with individual words. On the comments by Dr Schmidt: Of course, it is important that we deal with the reasons why there is an increasing number of sects, particularly young people. However, I do not believe that their opinion is correct if one is to train critical people, one can save people from falling into a sect. I do not think that the youth today lacks the opportunity to question something. I also do not believe that because of the fact that there are no conflicts, the young people feel that they are not being taken seriously, but I think quite the contrary that there has never been a time when such information was available. I believe that the people, the young people, have never had so much opportunity to deal with everything in general, to question everything. But I do not think there was a time when values had as little meaning as they are at present. I think that's the cause. All traditional values are questioned, and there is nothing more that young people and people can stick to. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that is an essential reason why such an inflow to the sects is taking place at the moment. All the authorities were thrown away from the base, namely the authority in a positive sense, I mean the family, the parents and so on as a positive example. All of this is no longer relevant today, and that is why the young people or people believe in living in complete uncertainty or feeling that way. People have lost their orientation, they no longer know what to do with their lives. They lack the sense, and therefore some seek the meaning of life in a sect, for there they are told: We know what's going on. There are the authorities who say we know exactly how you need to live so that you become happy. And then these people fall away from this fatal error and give themselves unconditionally to the goals of the sect. What we need to do is to bring young people and people back to the importance of values, for example, how important a positive authority is. Unfortunately, now it is God's way that everything is cleared away, all traditional values are cleared away, and there is nothing new in its place, and therefore man believes that he is floating in empty space. I am also not satisfied with the course of this discussion. I think it is good that there is this brochure, but according to ÖVP, there is nothing better than this brochure. And of course that's not true. If Mrs Mertel says that there is a huge success report, since 1994 there has been a working group that has been set up by Mrs Gehrer, and now this brochure, then, I think, is not a very good thing about the work of the sects. For example, the brochure says: If personal freedom is restricted, the state will intervene to protect citizens, and various instruments will be created that the rule of law provides. In reality, Mr Minister, there is no instrument of the rule of law at all, but there are only these information points. For example, it is important – I think Mrs Schmidt will admit that – to learn about the activity of the sects and to develop counter-strategies. The sects department of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna has four officials, and so far nothing has happened to increase there. The officials can now only see and once see what actually exists in sect beings, but they can't even perform any observations. The Interministerial Commission, which has long been instigated, does not exist either. The working group, as I hear, is also just an alibi treatment. Minister! Unfortunately, despite the fact that, despite the brochure, the nature of the sect is not of great concern to you, I must conclude that you have become active only now that our colleague Applebeck has organised a survey to combat the sect in Parliament in January. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] It is not until now that your Members have stimulated this current hour, and a week later you have initiated an inquiry in Parliament. This is really very blaming, and I would have expected that You have already...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3609	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3624	... take a little more constructive action.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3655	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3676	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to reply directly to the statements made by Rosemarie Bauer. If my colleague Mother felt that it would be useful if information material were published, then I must say that in this statement I see no contradiction at all with the statements made by my club woman, who has approached the subject in a certain way, by pointing out that there are shortcomings in the field of information, in the field we are talking about today. That is why I believe, Mrs Bauer, that this was a misinterpretation. You apparently did not question the concerns of my colleague, Mother, at the same time – and this was probably the case in the rhetorical structure of your speech – you needed it to be able to blame my club woman for being a worthless cellist. Because if you assume that someone who makes skeptical remarks on this subject does not represent values – precisely the fact that he does so is a form of representing values – then I must reject it very sharply, because only if one places human dignity at the centre of human dignity, man is at the centre of his dignity, can one approach this topic with the right distance and the right feeling. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] There are two levels on which the problem is running: the rational level – education – and the emotional level – relationship structures. In both fields we have serious deficits in our society, and these deficits live in the families. We have a problem in the relationship structures, and if the relationship structures are as bad as they are at times – even as a result of poverty and social isolation – then you must not be surprised if friendly seduces are successful. I would therefore ask you to note that it is only possible at all to approach the subject in a skeptical and constructive way when representing values. Political liberalism has fought a lot in this area, such as freedom of religion, freedom of conscience and freedom of belief. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are not happy when some of the vehicles also use religious freedom. But it's the question to ask: Why is that so? – We did in the 19th century. At the end of the century, the principle of "Cuius regio, eius religio" – who rules, determines religion – overcame and introduced a licensing system, a system of approved religious communities, where, in addition to the original state religion, successive individual religions have gradually come to pass. We have issued, as it were, limited licenses. I ask you: It is necessary at the end of the 20th century. Are religious communities entitled to issue licenses at all in the first century? Is that necessary at all, or can I not make positive definitions instead of negative? That is why I am telling you, the concept of the state-recognised religious community requires that there are also non-state-recognised religious communities. In principle, you are dealing with the first mistake of thinking in the system, because what concerns us here and why such brochures, if only better made, would be favourable, does not concern religion, but concerns the abuse of relationship structures, the abuse of instruments, such as psychology or psychotherapist methods that are misused there. This may be – probably even – criminal offences. There must therefore be a clearer definition of criminal law, but with regard to the facts of the case. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I tell you that we clearly have a failure of schools at the rational level, because we have eliminated in our schools the issue of values. There is no ideology criticism as a subject, there is no political education, there is no discussion of ethical positions – for example, there is no ethics teaching. We have only a small niche – we call it religious instruction – and that is mission at all times. That's supposed to be, but that's mission and not a critical discussion of values. At the relationship levels, we do nothing at all! For example, we do not really make family policy based on relationship structures. Therefore: If you set out criteria for sects here and forget an important criterion – for example, that such a thing as you describe it here is illegal to human rights conventions by, for example, running women's discrimination as a statutarian feature – if you do not have it inside, then you are obviously afraid that you are driving a large recognized religious community on the wagons, which is women's discrimination. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I ask you: Don't be so united in writing such brochures! The Federal Army is also described as an organization that could be called sect; you certainly didn't mean that! That is why I would like to ask you: If you go to such documents with fairness and not with preconceived opinions, then they will be valuable, and do not make – my closing sentence – a mistake in thinking: that you can replace the failure of the school with a single brochure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3757	I call Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3779	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is always a gratification to differentiate between positive, non-responsible practice of religion, religious freedom, necessary freedom of belief, freedom of expression and warning against negative and destructive tendencies. It's a walk! We can only proceed on the basis of criteria, and there will always be a grey zone. I think a lot has already been said. I can also make a contribution to Members of Parliament in many ways. I also believe that much of what is mentioned here in the sect brochure is not, in fact, primarily a religious community or a sect, but that, for example, institutions such as Scientology are quite fickle economic groups that make people dependent on psychological methods and exploit them financially. Unfortunately, they do. I also agree with those who blame this brochure on one-sidedness. I also think it is one-sided – although it is right to call individual groups: Only dangerous groups should be addressed. And for me, a degree knife is also about how many complaints I have been confronted with. There are relatively few reports from the area of recognized church and religious communities – no matter how wrong they may be to find their teachings there or there – which in any case penetrates me where people are brought to the brink of their existence, where families are torn apart and people are thrown into despair. But, Minister of State, this brochure is actually one-sided. Especially in the field of right and right-wing groups, there are more and more points of contact to right psychosects, of which I believe that they are not only endangering individuals, but may already be in danger of evading and endangering state institutions. Here I cannot spare you the accusation that you have hidden certain areas. I think that these institutions, even if they are close in the area – or perhaps just when they are in the vicinity – should not be excluded from recognized church and religious communities, even that church to which I recognize myself. Because if we do not really keep the peripheral areas clear, if not we, the political parties, have the courage to address that, then there are really great dangers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context I call the Engelswerk, Opus Dei, but I also call the VPM, the Association for the Promotion of Psychological Human Knowledge, in which former executives of the ÖVP, like a Professor Prantner, always appear with Hetzreden, with hetzschrifts. In this association, speakers like Mr. Knüter, who are clearly in contact with neonazist groups, such as the liberal workers' party in Germany, also appear again and again. These are dangerous areas, and they are completely hidden in your brochure. I consider the VPM to be a fascistic organization that also uses very dangerous practices, such as the braining of its opponents, and this is necessarily part of a sect brochure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last: Mrs Tegischer has spoken about the roots of the sect hazards, and I give her the right. It is probably an exaggeration of materialism, a feeling cold in this society, but it is also the question of what we do about it, what social democracy does against, for example, what trade unions do against it. Does the social network still hold, or do many people really have to feel left alone – the single parents who are less well educated, those who may have lost their jobs? – I think we are doing too little here! Mrs Partik-Pablé! It is not a question of prohibiting or disregarding the questioning of old values, no, young people always have to question everything, but we should come to a new consensus! It is also about a new social consensus. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – I come to my conclusion. One thing is probably the hardest to sue: If, for example, leading, leading, leading politicians of the ÖVP are already making such bills – a holiday is 3 billion schilling – as Mr Madethaner has done, I ask: Who are the High Priests of this megasect Mammon?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3848	That's what I'm going to tell you about the current hour. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e3869	As regards the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to the written communication distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4053	According to § 93 para. 2 before the entry into the agenda, the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of written question 1603/J by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades to Mr Bundeskanzler on poverty in Austria. I will accept this request and call on the urgent request at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1335/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4079	I would also like to say that the request made pursuant to § 92 GOG is a short debate on the reply 1335/AB to the question 1306/J by the honourable Member Mag. Trattners and comrades on gifts of money versus It is also the German Chancellor's intention to hold the savings package. As a matter of urgency and discussion has just been decided for today's sitting, this debate on the question will take place after the end of the debate on the urgent question. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4103	I would like to sum up the debate on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4 and 5 to 7 of today's agenda. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4131	In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the implementation of the debates in the following ways: A day-block speaking time of a total of eight "Vienna hours" shall be set, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ: 120 minutes, ÖVP: 112 minutes, Freeman: 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens: 72 minutes each. Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. The National Council has thus agreed to this proposal. 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (497 of the Supplements): Taxation Amendment Act 1996 (552 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (498 of the Supplements): EU Amendment Act (553 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4174	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no need for oral reporting. This will allow us to go into the discussions immediately. The first speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4201	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing, among other things, with the change in the tax on motor vehicles. You know you're forced to reduce the use of roads. Unfortunately, a wrong path is being taken in Austria: In return, the tax on motor vehicles is increased. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! This measure is short-sighted, anti-economic and entails a severe burden on the operators concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This increase in the tax on motor vehicles is in no way linked to measures to reduce traffic. This increase in the tax on motor vehicles does not lead to a shift from road to rail. This change in the car tax is a unilateral burden on Austrian entrepreneurs, while foreign carriers in Austria are preferred. The government parties have also repeatedly discussed fair competition in the Committee, fair competition in the transport sector. However, the exact opposite is achieved. It will not be fair competition, but it will create competitive disadvantages for Austrian transport operators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This increase in the tax on motor vehicles is the most serious disadvantage domestic operators have ever experienced in the field of road transport. It only meets Austrian entrepreneurs. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, show that the wishes and concerns of the Austrians are not at your heart. They create laws that benefit foreigners in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This increase is difficult to distort competition. You, too, will have to take note of the fact that from 1. In January 1997 the full liberalisation of transport will be allowed to take place and therefore also in Austria cabotage will be allowed. Therefore, foreign freighters in domestic transport can offer lower fixed costs than Austrian freighters. If that's the case for It is fair, then I do not know why you are sitting in the Austrian Parliament! They may belong to a foreign parliament, but not to the Austrian Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the Social Democrats, it is understandable that the Social Democrats have never pursued an Austrian-friendly economic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, I am surprised that the EIA has agreed to this increase. In addition, I think it is very significant that no Member of Parliament is stupid in this debate. These two representatives of the Chamber of Commerce have fallen down as never before, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Chamber of Commerce initially opposed the increase. As always, however, the ÖVP has fallen by half, as always, the ÖVP has agreed to a compromise which is not a compromise in this area. The Austrian fans are under pressure and are increasingly under pressure. This compromise, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the worst compromise you could take in the interests of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I know that individual top officials in the transport industry and also in the Chamber of Commerce say: Well, we can figure it out. – Only: These are the ÖVP officials. These are not the transport operators concerned, these are not those people who are paying the compulsory contributions to the Chamber of Commerce and could actually expect, Mr Lukesch, that the Chamber of Commerce represents the interests of Austrian entrepreneurs. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Maderthaner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we must finally decide whether they want to be Members of the Government, Members of the Government, or whether they also want to represent the interests of entrepreneurs in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Maderthaner! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. If you think the government coalition is going over everything, you'll clear up your seats in the Chamber of Commerce! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Puttinger! The members of the Chamber of Commerce have the right, due to the heavy burden from the forced contributions, to represent only their interests. You should finally do that in this House and not always go kneeling in front of the socialist government partner! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You finally need to learn to show profile here in this house. The ÖVP should finally learn to show profile also to the government partner. They should not always take economic measures out of fear of a coalition. I believe that the entrepreneurs and all those you have chosen here in the National Council as well as in the Chamber of Commerce have the right to stand up for the interests of these people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With your policy becoming They will achieve an increased corporate mortality in the transport sector. They will thus cause further job losses, although this area is already at risk of very high losses and has already suffered many losses. They will also achieve an increase in the number of Austrian trucks abroad. In this regard, I would like to refer to Luxembourg: There are already trucks that are owned by Austria, but are already registered abroad. It cannot be the aim of this House to favour applications abroad. This is also the reason why this measure should be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee's position, which you have put in, does not change anything about this disadvantage of Austrian entrepreneurs. In some cases, the Committee's determination will worsen the situation for Austrian entrepreneurs. Road pricing raises the cost of transporters, and road pricing, if at all, can only be introduced in the same way as the EU. However, there is nothing in your committee about an EU similarity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] If you are talking about road pricing at all, it is only useful to introduce it in the EU context and not to presuppose it like Austria in this area. This is also the reason why this Committee should be rejected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They run from the government coalition a non-responsible policy, an anti-economic policy that is at risk of work. The ÖVP has once again shown that it has finally resigned as an economic party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4352	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4373	Mr President, the House of Lords! I know Mr Rosenstingl from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but I must say that I was really shocked when you said from this point of view - it was written - that the Social Democrats had never pursued an Austrian-friendly economic policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Sometimes!]] Mr Rosenstingl! Take That You're not serious yourself! It is quite obvious that you are trying, through strong words, to avoid a contentious discussion. That's pure polemics, that's self-delimitation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was also quite typical that you have avoided embarrassingly bringing forward any of your own proposals. Or should I interpret it in such a way that you ask: In fact, we want to reduce the cost of road transport in general? [[Abg. Rosenstingl: No increase in car tax!]] We want to pursue a policy in Austria in which road transport is to be subsidized even more than it has been so far. We want to make a policy that contradicts all ecological principles. – That’s what your words indicate. Mr Commissioner Rosenstingl You have to acknowledge this, I think, as well: It's not enough to operate just polemics. You have to make the effort to discuss content even once, otherwise you will not be taken seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues will comment on this subject. I would like to talk briefly about the second issue which has played a role in the Financial Committee, namely the transfer of the Bank Austria's federal shares to the postal and telecom companies, to the PTBG. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently in the banking industry in exciting times, today may even be a particularly exciting day. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was three minutes of polemics now!]] The credit industry is not an industry like any other, but it is indeed a great overall responsibility. If you transfer the Federal Government's participation in the Bank Austria to the Post-Participant Society, this has a practical reason: that privatisation cannot certainly be done in such a way that you sell this package on the stock exchange in a short time. Of course, such a large offer could have a major negative impact on the prices. Therefore, it is necessary to be sensitive to use an experienced privatisation management. The PTBG is such a because, as you know, it stands in personnel union with the ÖIAG, and the ÖIAG has proved itself to be the best in matters of privatisation. As a whole, I hope for the Austrian credit industry that we will soon have clarity about the future structures. We are all aware that it is a question of the performance of an important economic area that is concerned with issues of international competitiveness and economic responsibility. It is an area facing major economic challenges, considering only what the monetary union will do to the credit economy. These challenges can only be met with forward-looking strategies and not with old possessive thinking. It is certainly not about structural stoning, but we must have the courage to change structures, to renew structures. The Minister responsible has successfully started such a structural change in the field of industry, and I am sure that we will also meet the challenges in the field of credit management. This is the subject of these applications. I ask you to agree. (Applause from SPÖ and Abg. Dr. Khol. - Abg. Dr. Graf: That was three minutes polemic and two minutes nothing at all!)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4449	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4471	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the tax-change law: The Federal Minister has assured the Committee that it is primarily about a consistent continuation of the path we have taken to avoid tax increases or the reintroduction of abolished taxes or the invention of new taxes. It's about closing gaps. The aim is to achieve a fair and balanced score for individual groups of taxpayers. A proposal has been made by experts or officials that, contrary to the current legal situation, a tax privilege must be re-evaluated, which can be made at a later date, if this partial depreciation is no longer justified by economic consequence, if it is allowed under commercial law. In commercial law, there is no obligation to ascribe, but the possibility of choice. So far it has been like this: If it were to be used under commercial law, it would have to be taken into account in tax terms. But if one did not want to, because, for example, the balance sheet was already good enough, one could carry on this tax advantage. This is now excluded. I have already told the Federal Minister in committee that it is difficult, in my view, because we are also talking about very substantial volumes linked to foreign trade. It is now true that subsidiaries abroad or abroad call for a very strong depreciation requirement, which then leads to a commercial activation option due to a positive economic development in these foreign markets and now to a tax activation obligation. I have argued that this does not necessarily go hand in hand with the liquidity situation. We have the problem, with large investments abroad, that they are subject to a non-relevant tax burden. I have therefore proposed – Mr Federal Minister, you remember – that this should be made dependent on the dividend capacity or the dividend distribution. You answered me that it was arbitrary, I admit of course. But I do not see any obstacle in this case. I think it would correspond to the basic idea of fair treatment if this instrument were not to be made as "scharf" as you and your officials have suggested. The arbitrariness is given in various areas. There is a possibility of design in tax law, which is a very large one, there or there even one too extensive, I fully agree with you, but on this point it would be a small signal primarily for export-oriented entrepreneurship that it is not totally defenseless delivered. Federal Minister! I think it's also time for such a positive signal. I think it would be a good thing if our economic operators and the entrepreneurs were once again to have a sign that the Federal Minister for Finance and his professional officials were very likely to break their minds on how it is feasible for the person concerned. – It wouldn't be much more. I looked at it: I am convinced that most cases would You'd still get it in stages that you'd have effectively stopped the hole after I thought you were. Federal Minister! I therefore agree because I am an optimist to make this amendment once again in plenary. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to take this request into consideration. Thank you. Federal Minister! The second point that we have discussed in the Committee on Finance concerns the loss compensation of leasing companies. In this regard, I quite agree with you that you could do that, you can do that, it is consistent, it is in accordance with the principle of fairness. But what I would like to put on here again, Mr Federal Minister – and there is also a bit of a connection with the previous saying: Here too, you consciously take a retroactive effect into account. They argued that the "goods" of a balance sheet date also want to take advantage of the companies, so they also have to purchase the "bads". The entrepreneur will take the "goods" if they are offered to him, but you don't need to offer them to him. But he must take that, and you know, Federal Minister, that the planning period for such a kind of business is several months, not to say far over a year, and that the entrepreneurs are there prisoners. They could not expect this clause to become law. I therefore believe that we should avoid this, and that we should give the entrepreneurs the feeling that their actions and their economies are planned and that what the Federal Minister for Finance has with them does not simply destroy this planning retroactively. This contradicts my sense of fairness – also in economic and financial policy. The third point is the Poststructural Act. Professor Novotny! Apart from the old unsituation with which this item has become the subject of the agenda today, and apart from the unloving events that actually had to do with the second item on the agenda, this point is, of course, a matter today in view of the headlines in the press on CA privatisation. I assume that we will still deal with this CA-privatisation model or with this possibility of "CA-privatization" – under quotation marks. [[Abg. Böhacker: Are you for a privatisation?]] We'll deal with this later. I don't want to make a direct link either. Federal Minister! You used something that I can't directly describe as a trick, because it's allowed. I too would not want to be worse in my balance sheet than I am. I agree, of course, with the Federal Minister that he does not want to make the budget appear worse than it must be. This has nothing to do with "Trick". However, the issue of privatisation, structural adjustment and structural changes in the banking sector is, of course, a top priority for all of us. If I think only of the extent to which I am concerned, then the Graubirs come to me, Minister of State. Because I have to tell you: I do not recognize a principle of order – any order – behind all of this! I've already noticed in a press release: For me, it now looks like "Management by Chaos". This is also a principle of order, but it is difficult for the individual to follow it so to speak. I would really be grateful if we could hear from your mouth sometime, what's really going on and what's really planned. For one thing is not going, Mr Federal Minister, that you, the Federal Chancellor and some other members of the government or other bodies say: "We have this and that intention," and in doing so, as if Mr. Häupl, Mr. Edlinger and other party colleagues were not part of the SPÖ and would do something quite different. At Bank Austria, I fear that the real crux will be the following: If you want to win the opposition for at least one process worthy of discussion, that is, for a solution "CA plus Bank Austria", then we want and will discuss the consequences of this at Bank Austria. It is only with this that there is a further accumulation of power and influence among socialist officials in the Town Hall, while the economy, customers and employees of the institutions concerned will have to take note of this, as I believe, will not take place. I really hope you don't plan this, Minister of State. A few words on the EU Amendment Act. If you do not believe in Mr Rosenstingl – which I understand – regarding the problem of dual functions in the Chamber and in Parliament, then perhaps you believe it to your President Neisser! He said that too. That you, Mr Lukesch – he is not here now; please direct it to him – I do not understand that at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You have made it particularly clear in this law – especially in this point – your own powerlessness, your own twittering. Gentlemen of the ÖVP! To cancel a committee meeting two days later, then move back to five days – this chaos must make you think for yourself! You should think not only of the matter, but also of the form, of whether all of this is actually compatible with your credibility. At some point, Mr President, you will either be unable to obtain your office in the Chamber, because there will be an angry crowd waiting for you, or you will lose the rest of your credibility here in Parliament. Just think about my favorite topic "Employee Protection Act". As you, the ÖVP and the economic representatives have agreed to this law, you have to explain it to me once again, because that is completely incomprehensible! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: On Friday I will explain it to you!]] You are ashamed, Mr Secretary-General, that you have given your voice to such a bad law, to the law that is imperceptible, to expensive law, to useless law! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: If the emphasis is on the fact that we have to close a gap of revenue which has resulted from the implementation of the Road Costs Directive and therefore no longer can all road users be asked to check for it evenly or at least to a certain extent, if we can only "milk" those who are in access – I do not deliberately say "in the grip", because that would be polemic – of the Minister of Finance, that is, the local farmers, and if we do so without resolving the great issue of harmonizing European transport taxes or car charges, then of course we are taking part in competition. Because we have cabotage, we have the competition on the customer side, but we do not have the same conditions of competition on the tax side. This is a very worrying measure! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is certain: There will also be job losses in this area. It's going to come like this, and it's not gonna hurt the sparkers either. I am very curious who is going to be your group, who then throws the first stone and says: Look at what business is! They make wage dumping or price dumping! – Everything is going to be put under them, in fact they do nothing but try to meet the burdens that you impose on them in this competition in addition. I will then draw your attention to it. In many other areas, this is already a topic. They have now also taken a small step in this direction in this area. Even if the group of companies concerned is not numerous, even though the Italians and the Germans, as the Federal Minister says, have even higher taxes, even if all of this is so, I believe that fair conditions of competition, long-term and calculable conditions would be an hour's commandment. This applies both to the value description and to the EU adjustment, i.e. to the tax on motor vehicles, and, of course, to the leasing company. If you, Mr Federal Minister, could pay a little more attention to this, it would be easier for us, but here and there to accept one of your proposals. We regret that we cannot do this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4555	The amendment tabled by Mr Haselsteiner to the Income Tax Act is under negotiation. The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4579	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words about the car tax for trucks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They are always very careful to ensure that what was said to the Austrian people before the referendum or before accession to the European Union is respected as far as possible. I understand and accept that. I should like to remind you that the Austrian Government, represented by the two coalition parties, has promised in the so-called Europe Agreements of the Austrian people that there will continue to be support for agriculture, but that it will also ensure that there will not be a dramatic reduction in road use from originally 72 000 S to 16 000 S. Nevertheless, the Federal Government and the coalition parties have found themselves here in the National Council for a compromise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This compromise takes into account the competitive situation of the local fishermen! Forget You do not ask that the main route of foreign freighters, namely the Brenner route, was burdened with a drastic increase in the truck toll last year. This was at the expense of foreign fishermen. Don't forget, Mr Rosenstingl, that's something that always frustrates me a little; I honestly say that: The Committee is always talking in detail about data which seems to be completely forgotten in the speeches in plenary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is an investigation that represents the load of a truck in Austria, Germany, Switzerland and Italy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Unfortunately not Holland!]] I think it is damn unfair, for example, if one always takes out one component, such as the car tax, but does not take into account, for example, the mineral oil tax on diesel or other road use charges. For example, if you take an Austrian forty-tonner and assume that it travels in two variants – once 50,000 and once 100 000 km – a year, you can see that the total load of car tax, mineral oil tax and road use tax, which you now criticise, in Austria 191 000 S, in Germany 194 000 S, in Switzerland 255 000 S and in Italy 427 000 S. I simply think it is polemic if one tries to give the impression that the Austrian fishermen are being misplaced in the overall tax burden. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. But you do not give a good witness to the former Minister of Transport!]] It's a compromise, but I'm on it. I say it again and I say it quite honestly: Since I'm looking for a way to burden domestics and foreign trucks in the same way, I would have preferred to go towards road pricing. That is why I am very glad that a new resolution confirms the way towards road pricing. I understand the colleagues of the ÖVP who say: What do we have of it when the Austrian fishermen are more burdened, and then drive with release of cabotage from 1. January 1997 the Dutch cheaply through our country? We have nothing of that at all, and this does not help transport policy either. A similar, fair burden is the introduction of road pricing. That is why I am in favour of the fact that we are implementing road pricing in Austria as quickly as possible – and in favour of trucks in an advanced form. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Then they're gone, the fishers!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On Mr Haselsteiner's comments on the tax-amendment law. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we can present today that, within the framework of this one-time instrument of power, which the Austrian people set up to consolidate the state budget, all sectors, all sectors, all sectors, make their fair share. I am also very glad that companies also make their fair contribution through corporate tax. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that we need continuity and planning in the economy, but if erosion processes are to take place more and more quickly if there are to be rapid circumvention models, it is also necessary for the tax authority to act. I have recently experienced how, in a common process, in the case of the return of loss-participation models, Austrian companies suddenly became active and invented a circumvention possibility, which is normally not found in the wildest constructions. A person company is established in Germany, which only has to record revenue and expenditure. This person company buys shares, has therefore immediately high expenditure and assigns the resulting loss to Austrian shareholders immediately. This means, for example, drawing 100 000 S of a share is assigned 300 000 S of loss. This is a clear circumvention. The fact that financial management has to react quickly is, I hope, understandable to you. Mr Haselsteiner! To your specific proposal: In view of the economic situation, we do not have this re-evaluation offer until the 1st century. January 1998, namely from the date on which loss talks can be reintroduced. They know very well that this has been done in the direction of fiscal profitability, in the direction of economic liquidity and earnings. What you are proposing, however, is that it does not depend on the profit, but on the arbitrary nature of a dividend decision, whether the entrepreneur or the board of directors carries out the profit of a deposit or pays off as a dividend. Do you want to make a tax charge dependent on such arbitrary decision? – I think that this is already technically impossible and for a one-time break into our system. I would ask you, in your request, to take account of the fact that this would be genuinely arbitrary. According to your proposal, the tax benefit would not depend on profit, but on the arbitrary nature of the profit. I don't understand that. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of privatization of Bank Austria: This is an international process that is rightly observed. As far as we are concerned in this process, the reputation of Austria is at stake. This cannot be done in the form of any backyard action, but we have opted for a legally transparent, proper procedure, which, for example, can be charged at any time before the Competition Commission and can stand up to such an action, and more so. This means that we have to proceed very orderly and on legally safe ground. Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore chosen a procedure which allows it to take place until the 16th century. This year's final offers will be made. After that, we will continue to do what you have commissioned me to do. In fact, it is stated in the Federal Act that Austria's interests must first be safeguarded, secondly that it contributes to the adjustment of the banking structure and thirdly, that the budget should be used as best possible. Under these conditions, which you are legally responsible for, we will make the decision properly and transparently. I will invite the coalition partner to join this decision-making group. I don't intend to risk the call of Austria or my reputation! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Third, the PSK sector. Mr Haselsteiner! I have explained very detailedly to you that after a "Beauty Parade" held about three months ago, a comparison of ten investment banks, one was always coherent, namely: The best possible exploitation of the 17 percent Bank-Austria shares of the Republic of Austria must take place via a model of option bonds, calls and Puts and so on. You always need a special purpose vehicle, a society. The consideration was now whether one should establish one's own company or take the PTBG managed by the proven privatization professor Hollweger & Becker. It was obvious to take the PTBG, the post-participation company, to prepare this process in peace and to carry it out quickly – from my point of view in the first half of 1997 – so that, as agreed in the Coalition Agreement, the federal government can, as far as possible and quickly, separate itself from the shares of Bank Austria. In this sense, I believe that this process will also be approved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4670	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4691	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we are discussing two important financial laws here today, which contain very many individual measures which are very important for our businesses, in the public debate, only two issues have actually dominated very strongly, which has already been demonstrated by the previous discussion, namely the subject of car taxation and the particularly current issue of Bank Austria. I would also like to confine myself to these two issues in view of my short speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard and read a wide range of opinions in terms of increasing the car tax as a partial compensation for the step-by-step reduction in road use. The bow spanned from the one side, which means that one had gone down in front of the milling lobby, to the other side, which claims that the Chamber of Commerce would have fallen down and had abandoned the eaters. If you see this bandwidth, you have to say: It was probably a rather reasonable means which we have taken here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say one thing very clearly: It is not a question of whether the Minister of Finance has won, who has won, the Chamber of Commerce has won, but of where the value added remains, and this added value should remain in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this is only about the question: How do we ensure the competitiveness of this industry and thus thousands of jobs? – This is the only question that interests me, but not: Who is loser and who is winner? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's not do anything – that was actually my most important argument in all the discussions –: There is no workplace as mobile as the workplace in a truck. Such a business is very quickly registered in Bavaria or elsewhere. And I must say, unfortunately, we have had this development in recent years. My colleague Puttinger has told me that in Salzburg alone in recent years 1 500 jobs in this area have been transferred to Bavaria. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a development that we must take into account. For me, therefore, today's regulation, this compromise is a signal for businesses: We're taking your concerns seriously! Please, stay in Austria, leave value added in Austria, secure jobs in this country and do not go abroad! This is important to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the question of the amount of the car tax is important, of course, the question of how high the fuel price and the diesel price are, but ultimately it is a total cost calculation, and the location conditions are only to be seen in total, one cannot see them punctually. We have a situation today – including in other areas; and we should take it seriously – that the calculation of an entrepreneur often results in the world's brutal location competition: Actually, it's better to move jobs abroad. We must stop this development, and I am very glad, Minister of Finance, that you have also recognized it. If the objective is to leave the value added in Austria, then every finance minister is a silent partner anyway, and in that respect you are actually the winner of this dispute. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say very clearly, because, of course, I speak here in my capacity as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce – my main profession – and I cannot divide here... [[Abg. Rose stingl: Oh yes!]] – You want to divide me, my colleague. I'm not going to double, that's the difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But your attempt will fail! I'm not going to be divided. I'm a person, and I have a uniform opinion. I will explain it to you on the second subject. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a very clear statement – and I have also made this happen: I have spoken to the approximately 20 to 25 most important representatives of the transport industry and I have been able to accept this compromise. Mr Rosenstingl! If you are trying to spread in sand demagogically like this from the speaker's mouth, then this attempt is certainly not successful, because the top representatives of this industry know exactly what they have accepted. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Do you know how many transport companies we have in Austria?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In short, on the second issue, which was given an additional topicality by yesterday's reports. In the Committee on Finance, we have only discussed the subject of Bank Austria and Post-Sparkas and the next step, privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you, quite openly and repeatly, that I cannot split up: As Secretary General of the Chamber of Commerce – that is my main profession – I do not, in principle, interfere in business transactions of member companies. This is my position in principle. I am not interfering here in terms of business policy, social law, and I am not interfering in decision-making between two member companies. First point. Second point, I would like to say very clearly: Of course, I have a political position. This position is – this is re legible for many years in the minutes of this House and in many articles by me –: I am an unconditional follower of the fact that the state may withdraw from entrepreneurship – and not just the state, but the entire public hand. This applies equally to countries and municipalities. That is, my most important position is privatisation, but not majority, but total withdrawal of the public hand from entrepreneurial functions! This also applies to money and credit, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Including the chambers!]] And I have a third regulatory position – and I would like to say this very clearly, and I know that in this global location competition, of course, the issue of competitiveness has a high priority: I would like to have a balanced money and credit instrument in the interests of the medium-sized economy. I would like to avoid, regardless of the names, regardless of businesses in every area, that there is a concentration of power, which ultimately leads to the burden of our medium-sized economy. This is a regulatory position and not a interference in current business considerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4812	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After a few preliminary remarks on the tax-change law, I also come to the main issue: the Bank Austria. I would just like to comment on the tax-amendment law: There are again some retroactive provisions – at least one I have seen, namely in the corporate tax law; perhaps there are several – and I believe, in the interest of all taxpayers, that such retroactive provisions are an nuisance. Second comment: All the energy tax laws adopted in May 1996 are being updated, but only with regard to the payment dates for the charges. The opportunity to favour electricity from alternative energy sources – biomass and so on – was not perceived again, but it all stays with the old. Third comment: There is a change in the concept of income in the Karenz leave grant law. There is nothing to be said about this in principle. Only, I believe, do we now have different income concepts in income tax law, emergency aid, karenz leave, study aid and twenty other laws. One should think about unifying this concept of income in the individual transfers. Now to Article XIII Amendment Act: This is about the transfer of the federal shares to Bank Austria to the so-called post-holding. I have already said something in committee about the fact that first of all this amendment has come at the last second, and secondly that this matter is dealt with under a tax-amendment law. It may still be legally acceptable, it's definitely not beautiful. I have expressed myself in committee a little more drastic, but I do not want to repeat this. By analogy, criminal changes could soon be reformed under the agricultural market regulation. The transparency of legislation certainly does not serve this. Federal Minister! I would not like to discuss with you whether post-holding is the appropriate special purpose vehicle and whether the models you have explained to us in the committee are the right one with the option bond and these Put and Call security and so on. I wouldn't dispute that at all. The question I'm asking is: Is this the right time for this reform? For in the law we decide today there is nothing but the transfer of the federal shares to the Bank of Austria of postal holding. It is obvious that the aim is to start with a few billion for the budget. Like many billions, this is not regulated by law, but the General Assembly of Postholding will decide on the concept of privatising the Bank-Austria shares. But who is the General Assembly of Postholding? – None other than our esteemed Federal Minister climate. However, this could have been different, namely easier: A climate could have been mandated to present a privatisation concept. The post-holding will, we say, spend 5 billion, so to speak, in advance for these shares, 5 billion, which of course it does not have. It will resume these 5 billion on the capital market, and therefore this is only a short-term shift in debt between federal and post-holding. What about the hustle and bustle, Mr. Federal Minister? – Whether you reduce the administrative deficit or not, I do not care about it personally, honestly. You've estimated 8.5 billion schilling for privatization revenues in the budget, and they originally wanted to please you through CA privatisation. However, the CA-Tragödie is already going into the sixth or seventh years – I have already forgotten how many years have passed – and this privatisation will not take place again in 1996. But you get the 8.5 billion schilling together with the 3.5 billion schilling that you get through the resolution of the pension provisions at the post-sparing bank – for this you have to take over the future pensions; that is the French model Telecom, which unfortunately has been blessed by EUROSTAT – and with the 5 billion schilling you receive from the post for Bank Austria. So what? – The Maastricht deficit is crucial – on which we agree – and for the Maastricht deficit the 8.5 billion are totally irrelevant. You could use them at most for the reduction of debt. But if you succeed in reducing public debt by means of the other financing of the ASFINAG, the sale of claims of the funds and the distribution of the tax budgets among the municipalities in the order of about 90 or 100 billion schilling, then it does not amount to these 5 billion in the case of God. There you have reduced by 4.5 percent of GDP in public debt. And I am already wondering – and I would like you to give an answer to it today – whether the haste which has suddenly occurred in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, by means of amendment proposals, is still at the back of a matter just present, just because the Committee on Finance meets by chance, in connection with yesterday's and today's reports relating to the acquisition of the credit institution by Bank Austria. I would like an answer to that today. I have to tell you, spontaneously I have a certain sympathy for this solution. I believe that the best proposal for CA privatisation so far was the story with Credit Suisse. However, negotiations with the Credit Suisse have been conducted, for whatever reason. With this CA/Bank-Austria-Fusion, a very large bank would be admitted for Austria, but in the international comparison a medium-sized bank would be created which at least at first sight meets the three criteria you mentioned, namely first safeguarding Austrian influence, second contribution to the adjustment of the banking landscape and third adequate fiscal, the best possible contribution to the budget. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Best possible!]] In this respect, the model is quite attractive. Of course, there are as many questions as there are answers, namely new questions: Who will then be the new owner, who will be the new owners of Bank Austria? And from this point of view, I do not like the solution that will undoubtedly be decided by the coalition parties today. The former main owners of Bank Austria are indirectly the municipality of Vienna and the federal government with these 17 percent, which are now transferred to postholding. I would have preferred the municipality of Vienna to withdraw from the Bank of Austria and retain its shares. This is far more transparent, and the responsibilities are much clearer, namely in the person of the Minister of Finance, than when the reverse happens: The federal government withdraws – initially only indirectly, but later completely – and the municipality of Vienna remains over the AVZ share management or as this thing is called. That's totally opaque. That's where I share the concerns of Dr. Hazelsteiner when I understand him correctly. The reverse solution would have been far better. But apart from that, They may not be able to assume in the long run that the municipality of Vienna will be the main owner of the largest bank in Austria when the merger comes. And I hope not – it is obvious to suspect that – that a completely different economic but simple consideration is behind it, namely that the influence of the SPÖ over the municipality of Vienna is much more long-term secured than over the Federation. In addition, this merger will clarify which exchange transactions between SPÖ and ÖVP are still ahead of us in this context. It would be totally unrealistic to assume that the ÖVP is now suddenly saying: Well, all the solutions so far have been put down, the Bank Austria is supposed to offer 16 billion instead of 10 like the First Austrian, is okay, then it gets Bank Austria. – This is totally contrary to the Austrian culture – under quotation marks – better said: Unculture. There are certainly any other exchange transactions, and we would like to know something about them. What is the area in which these are located? Close to an economist, it's natural to think: What have we been dealing with here in Parliament the other day? – We have dealt with the transfer of the postal savings bank to postholding, by chance the same holding company. And I already said, What about the business areas of the Postsparkasse? Will Raiffeisen successfully block the fact that the postal savings bank will operate in rural areas – as before? This would be a possible, close-up exchange: The ÖVP agrees if Raiffeisen receives the rural area or the postal savings bank or both. I do not think that is so bad either, I must honestly tell you if there is a large bank and another one is getting bigger. Should be. The greatest danger I see is quite another, and it is based on the tradition of the last three years, namely that you are blocking each other. You mean the SPÖ and the ÖVP. They say, well, these are now incompatible offers – that is not the case; what is the case with the staff, loudly suggested arguments – and then the worst case occurs that neither the one nor the other solution, but that no solution is chosen and that the CA tragedy is repeated in the sixth or seventh years with Bank Austria, that the banking landscape is not corrected and that you do not come to your fiscal revenue for the budget, in other words, that no solution at all happens. Finally, I would like to point out something that President Neisser has recently addressed: the role of top officials of chambers – on the one hand in the Chamber, on the other hand here in Parliament. I find it strange that, in this case, the Chamber of Labour – but, of course, this applies to other chambers – writes sharp and well-founded opinions on individual laws, signed by the President of the Chamber of Labour – that is none other than our esteemed colleague Eleonora Hostasch – but then this statement never plays a role again, at least not by the Social Democrats. I would always like to appeal to it, because these are very often well-founded opinions, well-founded, in detail. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] Yes, that's right, Mr. Khol. What happens then in committee or in plenary? - Then it's totally irrelevant. Of course one joins the coalition discipline. In the special case, it concerns § 117a Income Tax Act, which the Chamber of Labour writes: This provision is rejected by the Federal Chamber of Labour and it concerns car taxation and road use tax reform, which is also a central issue today. And to that the Chamber of Labour writes in its statement – and I did not let that happen to you, I quote: "The calculations carried out by the Federal Chamber of Labour show that, in particular in the case of lorry trains of lighter weight class, in part, significant reliefs are made by the re-transmission from the road use charge to the motor vehicle tax. This is neither to justify transport policy nor otherwise and is therefore strictly rejected by the Federal Chamber of Labour." Signature: Eleonora Hostasch. - Wonderful! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr Hostasch is not here at the moment, but I do not doubt that she will be present for the vote, rise and agree to this provision. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We had a discussion about this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's been convinced! In Parliament we can be influenced by negotiations – you too!]] Unquestionably, she has been convinced! It's like that every time, always, you always get convinced. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, that's not always the case! Mrs Hostasch is one of those with whom we can negotiate very well.]] For reading, I recommend the "standard" of 11. ==References== It is not all the Social Democrats who believe that this is a problem and then everything is different again through negotiations. None other than Mr Sallmutter, the head of the GPA, the largest single union in this country, is of the opinion - I quote - that the social partners should not sit in the National Council. The fact that there are certain incompatibilities here and every day, if the plenary would meet daily, is proved that this is hard to deny. I am not an opponent of the social partners, Mr Khol, and I think I have often shown this through my speech, but there are difficult conflicts of interest here, which I believe is difficult to dispute. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4940	Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e4962	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would not like to address that part of my previous speaker's speech, Professor Van der Bellen, in which he spoke to the banks, to our banking landscape, but would like to make a comment on what he said at the end of his remarks, since I have discussed in the same direction with colleagues Khol: Democracy simply means compromise. Of course, there are opinions on individual laws, including sound opinions from various institutions, for example from chambers, but in the end we have the task here in Parliament to process all these opinions in such a way as to achieve a common good result for all of Austria. That is how it is understood, and so does Madam President Eleonora Hostaschreiss in committee, Mr Professor. Van der Bellen, but I am convinced that she can tell him that again personally or on occasion of another occasion here from this place. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to understand that we also need to make compromises. No one loves the compromise, I know, but ultimately we all need it to be able to live together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The EU Amendment Act, which is due to be adopted today, lays down, among other things, essential provisions on the quality of transport costs. In accordance with the Treaty of Accession of Austria with the European Union, this levy should be reduced accordingly. The transitional period allowed for Austria to abolish increased road use charges in relation to Community law expires at the end of this year. Transport policy would therefore have been a corresponding compensatory increase in the car tax for trucks, and that was what the Chamber of Labour said. In my opinion, on the other hand, there may be certain problems in certain categories where foreign motor vehicles and trucks have economic advantages. Ladies and gentlemen! Although a general objective should be to keep an eye on conditions of competition vis-à-vis foreign countries, this should by no means lead to a watering-up of the demand for more cost-effectiveness in the market in this particular case. I believe that this is an issue, which is basically easy to reach, but when it comes to concrete implementation, some cold feet, or cold tires, are better told, as we have noticed in the course of the discussion. That is why I am actually glad that the Committee made it clear that the proposed road pricing for trucks should be introduced as soon as possible. I should like to remind you that the Federal Road Finance Act already sets out specific data for the installation of the road pricing with 1998 for the truck and 2001 for the passenger car. If I now hear from various circles, particularly those close to the economy, that the technical implementation of this concept is difficult and the 1998 deadline for the trucks may not be sustainable, I would like to warn against it. Foreign examples demonstrate feasibility, and the domestic electronics industry has already repeatedly pointed to immediate feasibility and feasibility. In view of the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been set up by law, I therefore assume that, in particular, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is moving rapidly towards the implementation of these rules. The one with one. In my opinion, the vignette in force in January 1997 can only be considered as a short-term transitional solution, and it was also thought to be such. As a necessary condition for the introduction of road pricing, I still see the merger of ASFINAG with the two existing road subsidiaries. At present, there is already a discussion between the ministries concerned and the countries concerned. I hope that each side of the House will show the willingness to cooperate, which is necessary in order to be able to achieve this, I am sure, not just a project. First and foremost, it is about restructuring the management of the high-level road network in Austria, but of course the achievement of ESA criteria is also an essential point. In this context, it is, for example, necessary for the new company to be able to cover at least 50 percent of its costs from its own revenue. I should like to point out whether it would not be useful in this context to introduce the tax on road use into this society in the future. Road pricing is also necessary because, in its construction summit, the Federal Government has agreed on the necessary gaps in the high-level road network. This is important not only for the drivers, but also for the local construction industry and their jobs in addition to maintaining the existing route. I do not need to explain what these construction projects mean for the Austrian labour market. However, it is already necessary to consider, particularly in connection with the installation of road pricing for trucks, the further operation following the merger mentioned above, because both the loophole and the investment costs for the toll system will not require insignificant resources. In my opinion, therefore, we should consider the way in which private participation in the new society could be achieved in the near future. I do not believe that this will have to be expected until the end of the gap or even until the ASFINAG debt is resolved. Experts ensure that the introduction of road pricing for truck private investors would already be interested in this company. The discussion over the last few days on the road use tax complex, car tax for trucks, has clearly demonstrated the importance of the issue of cost-truth in transport. I therefore call once again on all those involved to initiate the implementation of road pricing for trucks within the meaning of the Committee's definition. – Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5046	Mr Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5067	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance is well aware of the need for money, and this is also an essential provision of the draft law under negotiation, which allows post-holding to help the Minister of Finance in the short term out of his dilemma and to obtain the billions that he has not been able to bring in so far because of a lack of real privatisation. This is done in the way that the shares of the federal government in the Bank of Austria in post-holding are pledged, carried into the Dorotheum, that is to say, the possibility of rebuttal and thus a small amount of money. It is a technical process in which, in fact, one and the same person acts again and again. Mr Finanzminister, you are, as it were, a sole shareholder in post-holding, you have the say there, and you are also Finance Minister, so you could do it yourself. In reality, this is a balance sheet-sheet process that takes place at a level that we know slowly. It is now all possible to be distributed from the budget. A federal pension management company is supposed to be planned, 100 percent owned by the federal government, since there is already a government debt management company – the state no longer manages its debts itself, but it now makes directors and directors – and there is, of course, also post-holding, with the federal government taking over the burden of pensions, so that post-holding is not a purely plea-keeping. All of this is created to achieve – and this calls into question Urdemocratic substance – that all these operations with billions of heavy transactions are withdrawn from parliamentary control. That's something I think is very dangerous. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you to think about it, Minister of Finance, whether you really want to continue on this path, namely to extract everything under the title: We privatize, we're rebuilding!, but in reality we're withdrawing They are all just parliamentary control, because behind it as owners are still the Federation and the local authorities. I think that this path is simple and simply unbearable and very dangerous in a developed democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You only have to follow all these paths so that you can represent before the citizens something that does not correspond to reality. They represent you got the budget under control, it works everything. – In reality, it doesn't work. They are far above what would be necessary to reduce debt. You will not achieve your goal in this respect either, so you need to get 8 billion schilling in the short term, 3 billion schilling by disbanding reserves for pensions at the post office. That's really delicious: What you criticize at the Telecom in France is also doing here! In order to reach the Maastricht criteria, funds are paid to the federal society, it is transferred to the State to ensure that the short-term money is available so that it can be said at the Intergovernmental Conference in Dublin: What fine fellows we are, we are fulfilling the Maastricht criteria! Hurra! Inside the euro so that the next currency of inflation can be created. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then you still get money, so to speak, about a pre-financing of possible privatisation proceeds from Bank Austria, so that you don't have to privatize yourself as Minister of Finance, but post-holding does it for you, because it is so to speak. So it is in fact because you, too, have not managed to bring over the announced CA privatisation in time, Mr Finanzminister. I do admit, however, that what is now under discussion is interesting. The most recent offer of 16 billion Schilling, which Bank Austria has put, must, of course, be pleased with the Minister for Finance, because he will finally get something in there. And this construction has imagination, one has to admit, because, in the cooperation of these two banking institutions, a savings bank sector, which is traditionally anchored in the broad savings sector in Austria, would get a commercial bank, which has so far been quite and badly successful in international business, but which, above all in Eastern Europe, has built up a very good competence in terms of industrial and corporate financing. This testifies to imagination and creates a bank of an order that would not be found anywhere "for a distance", but would be an important institution. I say very consciously, that shows imagination, that is not bad thinking when behind it your will is to take a step further. This step should then be to really privatize now, because otherwise you will only transfer from one public bag to the other public bag. If you really want an institution to create international cuts, that we have a banking institution in Austria, which is also internationally renounced and able to keep up with, the market share that is so to speak in international financing – which we will need if we are to ensure that the headquarters are also preserved by important industrial companies in Austria in order to stop selling out, because that is our big problem today – if there is the will to do so, we will also take the privatisation step to go to the stock market in order to make this firm really accessible to investors in the general private sector, then I must say that we would like this route very well. It would then also be a way to overcome the unholy history of the red and black proportion in Austria about internationalization and about opening up also in the banking sector. The fact that CA privatisation has not worked until the hour is not because the CA would not be available, but because the CA is the sovereignty of the ÖVP, because on the other hand, the territory of the SPÖ was created within the framework of the Bank Austria. And the blacks watched and joined when the Fusion Landesbank – Z happened and the SPÖ, so to speak, concluded its red banking area. And now the Mr. Schüssel of the ÖVP says: But at least you have to leave the "bone" CA! That must remain the black realm of sovereignty! We know how it goes there. There are commissions who have not lost anything in the Stocks Act, councils in which hundreds of people are balling around, who are only provided there as party-political miners, from buffets to small incomes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are the things that are going on there! This is called large international banking, and therefore CA must not be privatized. I know exactly what that means. In the last five or six years, the failure of CA privatisation has cost more than 30 billion schillings, because red and black have not agreed on the distribution of positions in the banking sector. More than 30 billion schilling! That is to say, there had to be a resolution of provisions in billions, a correction of values had to be carried out because the party policy has taken it up to damage a renowned bank institution by 30 billion schilling. And that's why we say: Such a step, as the Minister of Finance is considering today, has the offer to create a large bank, but only if one really wants the second step, namely privatisation, in order to finally overcome this unscrupulous red-black proportion, in which the banking sector remains, and let it belong to the past. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would also allow minority shareholders to have something to talk about. Go to the CA General Meeting and try to speak there as a small shareholder. You have nothing to talk about! For these rulers who rule there, the small shareholder is annoying. And then you talk about the wide distribution of property, then you talk about privatisation strategies. In reality, however, they do not want to practice them at all. And that is why, Minister of Finance: Maybe. You will tell us today whether you have developed imagination as to whether you have a strategy on how this offer should be realized. From the sum it is interesting – having 16 billion schilling in the bag is not bad. So it should be thought at the end of the day how this is going to happen, because we would find the imagination in there so that the banking sector can also be taken out of a despicable development, which has occurred in recent years. When the Raiffeisen Group wanted to take over the CA, there were difficulties because the ÖVP had internal power conflicts because, as it were, the monetary aristocracy said, he was not allowed to buy up from the land nobility, so all of this must not work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When a Swiss group wanted to enter internationally – Credit Suisse was quite an interesting offer – it was said: No, it must be an Austrian solution! Now an Austrian solution comes with the largest bank in Austria that wants to get in there, now Schüssel says again: No, that's not an Austrian solution either, because there is a foreign, a German bank with 10 percent involved. It is interesting that all these questions have not been asked beforehand. It is also interesting that the coalition negotiations in Vienna have not regulated this. There, the ÖVP would have had the opportunity to ask what is happening to the main owner of Bank Austria, the municipality of Vienna. There you are coalition partners. You said that's not important, and now you're raining up again and saying, Jobs are affected by this merger between two major banking institutions in Austria. Do you know what the jobs are concerned about, ladies and gentlemen? – If your euro concept is carried out improperly, because when the euro comes, we will lose 15,000 jobs in the banking sector. That's clear today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ÖVP has also not complained about the fact that, with the new post-holding, where Mr Ditz, who has shared the entire debacle with the 114 billion schilling debt in the post office, is now acting as the financial director, it is really going to destroy thousands of jobs within the framework of the postal and telegraph administration. Please read the papers! And I have another question to the Minister of Finance. At a television discussion, he once told me: Mr Haider, reducing 6 000 jobs at the post office by 1998 – that is not true! I'm a friend of the Postlers, he said we're doing this at best about the natural finish. Today you know, Minister, that you do not bring a thousand pensioners together at the post office with the natural exit. Do you know what you're doing? [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] No, no, I got the numbers there. Don't tell me anything again! Once comes the Moment of Truth! You have to cut down 8,000 people by 1998, and almost none of them will leave the natural finish, because you no longer have employees over 60 years old, you have already removed them all. You will also have to cancel people under the 60-year limit. But if you send these people in early retirement, that means they have pension losses: 2 per cent discount per year. This is the reality with which you confront the people. And the contract staff can be terminated anyway. He's not pragmatized, he doesn't have any termination protection, he can be dismantled. So you will have to note that these 8,000 people with the construction you have chosen must certainly jump over the blade, not primarily over the natural finish, but by really taking the job away from the people and thus creating unemployed people. This is the reality we are facing today! But that's not what I heard about the ÖVP. The main thing that gets ditz after he has resigned is a beautiful post with 3.5 million schilling dosage, although he is not even able to maintain the service network of the post. 8,000 jobs are being reduced there and at the same time the investment planned will be reduced by 2 billion schilling. That's how the modern strategy looks! Not to invest in creating jobs, but to remove investment and produce unemployed people and to secure millions of opportunities as directors. That's not our way, and that's why we say: We like a strategy that makes Austria more competitive with its institutions; in the banking sector in particular, we need to rethink. But this has to be thought at the end, and we would be pleased if the Minister of Finance developed some vision in this direction. I hope that visions in your party are not banned in the meantime and that you will not become a medical care case if you develop a vision related to the bank's privatisation strategy. I also think this is important, because in recent times a lot of things have remained. For example, I accept the protocol of the Bank Austria's Savings Council that Director-General Randa has reported that Austria is impenetrable in the implementation of the EU consolidation directives on the banking sector. For more than eight months, one has been in arrears – in the In the meantime, it's already more – and he says: We have called for a transitional period to be negotiated during the accession negotiations, but unfortunately the government has not allowed this transitional period, but has said that we are doing so. And now you can't do it. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] It's in there. I'll read this to you. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is an old protocol!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: From when?]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: From what year?]] From 1996. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Date?]] And that's where Mr. Director-General Randa says: This means a calculation of the destruction of equity in the order of approximately 11 billion schilling. "Calculatorically" means that in the consolidation process, loans and own resources are charged so that we can reduce the amount of credit in the consequence of 120 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're not up to date!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, was the policy that led a Director-General to be alarmed in spring and to say: Friends, you have said without If and But into the EU, but then you have not even implemented the consolidation guidelines, you are damaging our credit business – 120 billion schilling less credit business – and there is a job destruction due to less business, and then you have to put fire brigades back on. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You read the wrong record!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Reading reading alone is not enough!]] That is why Mr Novotny is so excited, because the nine-time financier of the SPÖ always knows everything better, except his own salary deposits, which he never has in order. He doesn't know where he's going, but he'd rather ask about the quaesture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You didn't understand anything again!]] I mean, just this example, that you now have to fix it afterwards – you had to fix it now because danger was in delay – once again demonstrates how urgent it is to establish a solid basis also for the banking sector in Austria. Get out of party politics! Get away with the red-black proporz! No property rights of the political parties in these banks! If it really is intended to gain internationality, gain impact, increase performance and make Austria an interesting financing location as a bridge also towards Eastern Europe, then, I would say, gives the whole story a little bit, then you should do that and not only see it from the point of view of 16 billion schilling. However, if it is only about the red of the black government, so to speak, the electoral defeat of the 13th century. October wants to pay for it – so under the motto, because we have gotten a hit on it, because you have pushed you into our shadows of the savings package and the defense of the tax measures, and we have paid poor reds for it, we are now taking away the credit institution's playing field so that the black banking kings can no longer work for the ÖVP, but are established there red dwarfs – then we are not there, Mr. Finanzminister. And to that we would like an answer from you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5272	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Climate. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5293	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few clarifications, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Haider. I always listen to you very carefully. Three comments: First of all: It will not dissolve the post for pensions, but it will be the post office. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the same principle!]] Second comment: It is not a Federal Pension Office distributed and self-employed, but the federal government... [[Abg. May. Stadler: That doesn't change the problem!]] It is a big difference whether the Bundesrechenzentrum is distributed and self-employed as an independent marketable GmbH or the Federal Pension Office. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are responsible to Parliament!]] The Federal Pension Office is not self-employed and distributed, but the Bundesrechenzentrum. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Haider]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That doesn't change the problem!]] Not the Federal Pension Office. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm always trying to find out if I can do it. The Federal Pension Office, of course, remains direct and direct in the field of public administration. The Federal Pension Office is important, we can't break that out. The Bundesrechenzentrum – you are right – becomes an independent GmbH, and I hope quite marketable and committed. With regard to the third point you have raised, namely the capital of the banks, we have decided to adjust in the spring session here in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I said that!]] Allow me once again, ladies and gentlemen – I have done it today – to say something about the privatisation of the federal shares of Bank Austria. It is currently true that the total capital of Bank Austria holds 40.1 percent of the share management, 16.79 percent of the Republic of Austria. These 16.79 percent, which the Republic holds, are to be spread widely through the Special Purpose Vehicle – and one thing I have to say is that I have said – postal participation company; wide spread with an innovative instrument recommended by ten international investment banks. As far as the privatisation of the credit institution – ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again – is concerned, it is a process which is closely monitored by both the international financial system and the European Union Competition Commission. It is therefore also a matter of ensuring that we handle as clearly as possible, transparently and in accordance with the legal rules. Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, I have only one offer, from the consortium that has called itself. I am obliged to maintain confidentiality over all other things – and this is so usual internationally – until the conclusion of this business. I have currently no second or third offer. I say this clearly, but I also say that the tender period is up to 16. December of this year is running. And I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, You have commissioned me, you have commissioned me by means of a federal law – and this too will be closely observed internationally – to make a contribution in the privatisation of the credit institution, while respecting national interests, to the adjustment of the banking structure and to the best possible exploitation in the sense of Austrian taxpayers, the budget, the Republic of Austria. I have to stick to this, and I do not intend to damage the reputation of the Republic of Austria on the international financial markets in the course of this transaction, nor do I intend to damage my reputation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5396	Mr Dr Höchtl has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. A voluntary limit of 6 minutes is shown.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the discussion on agenda item 2, tax-change law, a focus has been on more fundamental issues, for example: How is the privatisation of the Creditanstalt-Bankverein continuing? What are the basic practices and options on the part of each party? What considerations are there?, and I think it is already important to note that we have been, for years now, unique advocates of a total privatisation of the credit institution banking association, and we have so far taken too long to achieve this objective. Secondly, There is no doubt that there are the following principles: If one is to be as many shareholders as possible for privatisation and for the wide distribution of ownership, then one must also be against something, namely against total concentration of power. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are against it too!]] And I say clearly here: We are for total privatisations, for widespread scattering of property rights, but at total concentration of power! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Except in the black area!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Raiffeisen looks different!]] And that for the sake of principle policy! For the possibilities of the savers, the possibilities of the borrowers, inter alia, are linked to the fact that, as a saver, they are not dependent on a moloch that they are not dependent on a moloch as a borrower, but that there are more possibilities given by positive competition. And that is why we are fighting this concentration of power and for the widest possible scatter! This is in the interest of the savers, and this is in the interest of the Austrian borrowers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: See Raiffeisen in Upper Austria!]] If we say that we are in favour of privatisation, we mean this objective as a comprehensive objective. Privatization cannot mean solely the surrender of the federal shares to anyone, privatization also means that one does not carry out a localization of an institution, for localization is nothing but a nationalization at national or local level. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is not happening!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: (at Federal Minister Mag. Climate significant) He already laughs!]] And we are against it, too, because this is not the way in which we imagine a reasonable privatisation. It is therefore clear that: For privatisation and against concentration of power! Against Communism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, We have had a second fundamental discussion as to how the overall tax policy conceptions are to continue. In this respect, I have to address a point made by Mr Rosenstingl, even if he is not here at the moment. I mean, what he said in some parts of this tax-amending law – I have written it along – means nothing more than that the taxes should be eliminated everywhere, as far as possible to zero, but at the same time, of course, all the benefits of the State are to be maintained, so that, if, of course, the logical consequence occurs and the debt and deficit accumulation is quite criticised. I mean, that's not the way you can do it, but that's exactly the way you've set out in your papers. I have looked at your paper, your last tax policy ideas – and if you are already talking about tax policy in principle, just a sentence on it. It proposes massive tax reductions and tax reductions, and if you calculate this, it is said that this would mean nothing more than to have less tax revenue with a blow of between 80 and 200 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Yes! Depending on which points you pull. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You never read this!]] If one calculates what is proposed as an alternative to eco-tax, Mr President - you have not announced this to the public - this would mean an increase in the price of petrol by at least 5 s per litre in order to actually achieve half a compensation for tax reductions. That is to say, we should confess to a serious discussion on tax policy proposals, we should also confess to a serious form of slimming, but we should not only want one thing, namely to reduce taxes, without saying how, on the other hand, we can maintain the benefits for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5577	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Höchtl! I understand that you criticize this concentration of power in a bank, I have only the suspicion that you are doing so with a certain degree of unanimity. The First Austrian Saving Cass is undoubtedly much smaller than the Bank Austria, no question at all, but nevertheless a remarkable institute, and these arguments did not come to your mind than were discussed whether the First Austrian should come together with the consortium and the CA. Thank God we have in the EU a competition authority, which clearly determines whether disproportionate market shares are available in a country. That is why I would suggest, Minister of Finance: Let us check with the competition authority whether this is a correct form of privatisation that does not trigger market control! Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, former Minister of Transport – that was actually very right when you made the traffic, because now I have the impression that traffic has actually become art, an art that your successor does not control so much or which he at least does not give his necessary attention – this tax-change law is another part of a broken transport policy. Your comparisons, which you bring, are usually a little monotonous, so I would like to question them. They have therefore brought the cost comparisons for truck transport and reported the costs in Austria at around 190 000 S and in Italy at around 420 000 S. But you have not said that you have included Italy's higher mineral oil tax. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Oh yes! Oh, yes! Everything!]] But that's exactly the point! You know that trucks today have tanks with well over 1,000 kilometres of driving area, and of course, there is a tinker where it is cheaper. I mean, then, that the comparison is a little sluggish. Secondly, of course, you have only spoken of the countries that are more expensive than Austria. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: From the surrounding! Switzerland, Italy, Germany!]] No, you did not talk about the Eastern countries, which are also a very strong competition. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Of which?]] From the Eastern countries. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: From the surrounding! The Eastern countries are quotaed!]] However, they are a very strong competition for the Austrian craftsmanship, and any increase in costs in Austria, of course, brings a worse competitive status. But much more important would be to me if we were to talk together about all four modes of transport – road, rail, flight and water. It seems to me that we are only always depriving ourselves of the road to make the non-economic railway more competitive. [[Abg. Edler: You can't do everything at once!]] We have now – whether I want road traffic or not; Ecology would be a second topic – there the highest productivity, and this highest productivity is constantly burdened with new taxes, while we have the lowest productivity in the rail sector and give high subsidies from the budget, which we then lack in order to be able to invest in infrastructure – with all the multiplier effects that result from it. I urge you to consider once together with your Minister of Transport – really in common –: Road, rail, flight and water – where does the road go? Air transport is completely untaxed. I know that's an international problem. There is no burden on kerosene, although kerosene is as CO2-carrying as the gasoline on the road. Where are the approaches of the Austrian Federal Government to ensure, in the sense of an international policy in the EU bodies, that these four modes of transport are once in principle in a competitive neutrality? In a second step, you can say: Now we have created competitive neutrality and now we want to intervene in infrastructure development and – should be – also in the tax burden and prefer this or that mode of transport. I do not see that we are constantly depriving ourselves of the road with good ecological arguments and weakening the most productive modes of transport until the rail, which is far too productive, can be much more productive but still competitive. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Edler: Cost truth!]] Mr Commissioner, I agree with you that Director-General Draxler has already moved a lot at the ÖBB, but I also say to you: It's too slow for me. There too much money is consumed that we would really need productively, investment in this state. A final sentence on globalisation. It has become common to present globalisation as the great threat to our country, but we never see the real reasons why globalisation can take place. On the one hand, it is of course the groundbreaking liberalisation of world trade, on the other hand, it is the uncompetitively low cost of transport. Globalisation, ladies and gentlemen, can only be limited if we have the courage to increase the cost of transport gradually, because transport is the only market economic restriction of the division of labour. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I believe that we can only do so if we maintain the competitiveness of individual modes of transport. However, the limitation of the division of labour by the cost of transport means that light, high-tech, intelligent products can still be transported worldwide, but that unintelligent products, whether that is gravel or cement, are no longer transported hundreds of miles across Austria's roads. I can take an example from the iron beers sector in Austria, in Tyrol. The iron is bought in Italy, then it is bound to Germany, and it comes back from Germany to Austria to be moved – all things that would not be necessary if traffic were to represent the limitation of the division of labour. Mr Finanzminister, together with the Minister for Transport, it will probably be your task to talk about this subject at the Council of Finance and Transport Ministers and to make the Austrian contribution to a truly comprehensive transport policy which will save us from constantly teaching about details.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5716	The next item is the speech by Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5738	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some tax laws are to be amended in various areas today. EU adaptations have become necessary, and various provisions have been needed in terms of the practical application of change. A recommendation from the Court of Auditors will be implemented as well as the possibility of circumvention of tax obligations. Finally, provisions on tax exemptions in Foundation law are made clearer. High house! On the basis of a recent findings of the European Court of Justice, a person who lives in an EU country and works in another EU country should not be taxed higher for this reason – that is, an inequality of treatment, which is now answered with the possibility of applying for unlimited tax liability, even if these persons do not have residence or normal residence in Austria. That is to say, the so-called frontier workers, who are commuting from an EU or EEA State and who obtain the substantial part of their income in Austria, are therefore subject to tax upon request. Another amendment concerns the limited number of taxable workers, i.e. persons who have neither residence nor normal residence in Austria. So far, a minimum tax of 10 per cent was applied to the payment of the current wage. This minimum tax for the limited taxable persons should fall from 1997. The change in the tax on road use or the motor vehicle tax law was also necessary, and some speakers have already mentioned it. Since the tax on road use has been reduced after accession to the European Union, heavy traffic will be cheaper. In order to avoid transport disadvantages, the motor vehicle tax on trucks must be increased by tonnage. This measure is important for a number of reasons, which has already been stressed several times today. The increase in road freight transport, which is contrary to the Austrian efforts to relocate the transport and environmental policy required, has been a major factor in reducing the costs of road freight transit since 1. January 1995. With this date, it is known that the gradual replacement of the road transport contribution currently in force in Austria was started by the road user charge corresponding to the EU Road Costs Directive. The problem was further reinforced by the fact that freight transport costs on the railway were increased by means of index adjustments and, on the other hand, the cost of alternative routes through Switzerland and also through France were considerably increased. One-sided approval would have contradicted the transport policy objectives in Austria and, of course, the outcome negotiated with the EU. It was clear from the outset that the reduction of the road transport contribution for trucks must be met with tax measures and, of course, with an increase in the car tax for trucks. The current regulation provides that in certain vehicles there may be both a time-dependent toll and the obligation to pay the road use charge. This double taxation is to be prevented by the present legislative proposal. It is now possible to count a part of the toll on the tax paid under certain conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The increase in the car tax, which I already admit, is not necessarily the best solution and, in the light of the said earlier, of course can only be considered a transitional solution, but in general can and must not be limited to the Austrian territory alone, but must be enforced in Europe. There all EU MEPs of all political groups are required. I hope that the proposed introduction of road pricing, which will represent an essential step towards cost-truth, will be implemented as agreed. I am confident that the Minister of Economic Affairs will take all the preparations and measures necessary to ensure that the scheduled deadline for implementation can be maintained without delay, especially in the sense of the competitiveness of domestic transporters with their foreign colleagues. The scheme to be decided on in the car tax is provided for as a transitional solution, and I will therefore agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5802	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5823	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl said today that Austria had an anti-economic policy that the Federal Government was not able to create the conditions for the economy. With all due regard, Mr Rosenstingl: I agree with you on this assessment competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted to hear that the German Chancellor Kohl has expressly praised Austria for these economic reforms. He found it remarkable that in Austria with this form of government the company tax was reduced, the asset tax has been abolished. And then, ladies and gentlemen, a colleague from FPÖ here says that in Austria everything is bad. Once again, Mr President, with all appreciation: The economic policy findings of the German Chancellor will certainly be given more attention in Austria than yours! Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank Mr Bundesminister Klima for not being able to find out and think that individual points can be made on a few points, that this and that is negative. The whole can be seen on the question of car taxation. I am grateful for the written document which has been sent to us, which made it clear how taxation and the loads of the various sectors actually exist in the various countries of Europe, which in the end shows that in Austria, with this compromise which has now been reached, a suitable solution could be found for the motor vehicle industry or for the food industry. Ladies and gentlemen! It is indisputable that this particular point of consultation in the preliminary work on the Financial Committee has provided for various assessments and intense discussions. The Road Use Tax Act is something that is always different: from the point of view of those who represent their economic sectors and, on the other hand, from the point of view of those who see only environmental and transport policies. It was clearly stated that the reduction of road taxation would have to be carried out by EU standard, and a different view was needed to fix this increase in car taxation in different areas to a sustainable level. Ladies and gentlemen, a small report from my neighboring community. One of the largest Upper Austrian companies with approximately 300 trucks has been considering re-establishing, fixing, expanding its business future for months. It is considered whether the site in Edt near Lambach should be maintained or whether it should be moved, because for the restructuring of this plant about 13 hectares of land will be needed. So a forward-looking business, which is economically healthy, which ensures hundreds of jobs, and which is also not uninteresting for tax revenue, does not know how it should continue. Due to the discussions we have held in the Financial Committee, the management has come to me – because the company currently has its location in my neighboring community – and has explained quite openly: If the objectives and plans were adhered to, as originally planned, there was only one solution for the operation, namely the relocation to a German location. – That would have been the wrong way, I believe, because this would have put Austrian jobs at risk, so that for this municipality and for other sites – not only at one location – there would have been the risk of the loss of significant municipal tax payments. Furthermore, jobs would have been gone – and we would not have less traffic in Austria anyway! Then, due to the possibilities in the future, the cargo transported on Austria's roads would be carried out precisely by foreign fishermen, by companies that fix their locations abroad. This would not have served anyone, neither the economic location of Austria nor job security, nor, ultimately, those areas that are important for the achievement of tax benefits. With the compromise that has now been found, which is acceptable to all, I think, the problem will also be solved for this company. It will stay in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5893	The next item is the speech of the honourable Member's magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5914	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Because of the up-to-date nature of this issue, which has gone through the headlines today, and a obviously far-reaching decision for the future, I cannot ignore devoting myself to it again. The Federal Minister has already made progress in the Financial Committee, I would like to say. Although he has only made vague pre-announcements in connection with the amendment of the Poststructural Act, he has left no doubt to someone who is fundamentally analysing the matter that a new offer is very interesting and will apparently also come to the train. Federal Minister! You meant, by calling three times the European Cartel Office, the European Supervisory Authority, that for this reason the privatisation of the Creditanstalt Bank, as it has so far passed through the newspaper, will not be achieved financially this year. For me, this was a clear indication of the fact that a very powerful banking institution is in the background of an offer and that you are about to be officially invited to participate, with a request to take over – even if you have tried to weaken it in the Committee and have tried to reduce the problem to a 17-percent German share. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to summarize what you have said today and to ask you one or the other. Although you have spoken twice, you have not answered the real core points, the really critical questions you have answered or have passed an answer. There are three models. This will be the decision for the future. If it turns out that a merger is being carried out by Creditanstalt and Bank Austria and perhaps in 1997 the 17 percent German share of Bank Austria is sold or even transferred to a private shareholder, but nothing else happens, Mr. Federal Minister, then it is not a privatisation, then it is the opposite: Then it is a nationalization after socialist embossing, which we will certainly not agree to. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second case. If it turns out, Mr. Federal Minister, that only certain shares of the "Bank Austria – CA" are privatized, however, the largest individual shareholder – and if that is only 10 or 12 percent – remains the share management central savings bank of the municipality of Vienna, then it is a sham privatisation and from our point of view also totally unacceptable. Third case. If it turns out, Mr. Federal Minister, that the new "Bank-Austria – CA" is not transferred to private property by 60 per cent, 65 per cent or 70 per cent – quite under the perspective of a strategic partner – but is completely privatized, so that the individual shareholder can enforce his rights by means of the shareholder's representation, then this is a model that will find the consent and support of the liberals. Everything else is a reproach, is a trick, has a sham. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot help the Austrian People's Party, which, in the face of the forthcoming transaction, seems to call out the coalition emergency, how to hear it and how it is already being spirited by the media. It is a shame that Mr Klubobmann Khol is not here, because that is what I would like to address in particular. It is therefore inappropriate because, just a few years ago, the ÖVP tried to build the Giebelkreuz over the Creditanstalt Bankverein via its trustees in a large-scale chess move, in a lightning action, which failed. Apparently, in the background, the negotiators were much more successful in the person of Mr. Randa and in the person of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. That's why it hurts you so much, not because it's really about the big concerns of the customers, the borrower, the investor in Austria, but because you see your power position at risk. That hurts you in the spinal cord. That's why you're yelling so loud and waving with the coalition. This is also totally unacceptable from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance must now declare himself. It is not enough to say: I am now committed to silence, and you will have to wait for what comes in. Mr Finanzminister! Finally, tell Parliament the truth! Tell them to which of these three variants you want to confess: whether this is a pre-privatisation, whether you want to continue to park certain shares somewhere, whether you want to leave the 17 percent in the post-equity holding, or if it goes hard when the pre-programmed coalition crack gets bigger, put your hands in the bag and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] I tried it, I tried hard, I wanted to put 16 billion in cash, but the ÖVP didn't want to! Then we would have a perfect theatre, then we would have the extension of the five-year-old unsuccessful attempt at privatization of CA. This is not acceptable in our view either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also, Mr Federal Minister, tell this House, as you imagine the future, whether private-sector shareholder representatives in the bodies will have the say in future, whether the Bank's resources will be directed in the sense of the Austrian economy, in the sense of the investor, in the sense of the borrower, or if you confess that banking policy and staff decisions in the field of executive positions, the Supervisory Boards in the party headquarters of SPÖ and ÖVP are to continue to be negotiated. Meeting Finally, I would ask you to make a clear statement, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6001	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6023	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to comment on three main points. First of all, the Structural Adjustment Act. We have decided in the spring of this year, and an essential prerequisite has always been that the burden of this structural adjustment law should be distributed as fairly as possible. Today's tax-change law is a step towards a fair distribution of these taxes, because it is a downturn of those who pay corporate tax and income tax, to those who are already paying these taxes. It is necessary that, as in budget planning – and it also looks forward to – not only the wage tax, but also the determined contributions to corporate tax and income tax are actually realized. I also believe that it is necessary to continue to follow the principle that, although tax rates are not increased, the tax base in particular in the area of coal and income tax should be extended, and it must also be borne in mind, as the Minister of Finance has already announced before the summer, that, in particular, the tax review in this area will be strengthened, because there is an assumption – there are some estimates – that there is a tax loss of several billion schilling due to transactions currently running next to the books. It will also be necessary to carry out a follow-up process. The second point I wanted to mention is the use of the road and the car tax. These fixed contributions from the car tax constitute a compromise. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say from my wait that I am approaching this compromise from the other side. That is to say, the amounts fixed here are rather too small than too high. I have already seen the approaches in the government template tend to be too small than too high. And we have now gone one step down with these contributions. It must already be seen that this is contrary to our transport policy objectives, because we simply favour road freight and do not take a step in the direction that road transport can be shifted from road to rail by creating cost-effectiveness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the long-term comparison, it must be noted that before accession to the EU, the burden of a 38-tonne truck by road use was 75 000 S. This burden is now reduced to 16 000 S. This results in a saving of nearly 60,000 S. The car tax is now increased by 40 000 S according to the government proposal from 5 400 S to 45 000 S. There would have been a savings of 20,000 s. This new proposal from the Financial Committee will now increase this saving from 20 000 S to 26 000 S. I consider this to be still durable in the way of compromise, but in principle it is a way in the wrong direction. Although competition neutrality is also discussed and if there is no distortion of competition, three points should be taken into account. One point is that this international competition can be held, in particular in high-tonnage trucks, because in international traffic, it is essentially over 30 tonnes. At least it would have been consistent to increase the contributions for trucks between 12 and 18 tonnes more significantly than was the case now. Second point – as the Minister has already said – is: The overall burden of a truck, including mineral oil tax and other taxes, is much higher in Switzerland, Germany and Italy than in Austria. Finally, in line with the Committee's statement, road pricing will have to lead to the restoration of competition neutrality. But there must not be a total relief of freight traffic on the road. Ladies and gentlemen! The third point is CA privatisation. We have here adopted a law that specifies exactly that this is only about three criteria. The first criterion is an Austrian solution. The second is a structural improvement in the banking landscape. The third is as high a yield as possible for the League. It's about these three points and nothing else. It is not at all excluded by this law that another interested party can participate, for example, in which the liability holder is the municipality of Vienna. I think we have just recently seen that it is very important that the decision-making centres be left in the country. If, for example, we look over the border with Germany, we will find that there are a lot of German federal participations in banks and industrial groups and that they are using the shares very strategicly. I recall the case of Conti with the participation of Lower Saxony and that Lower Saxony has achieved that the research centre has been moved from Traiskirchen to Hanover two years ago; we now see the consequences. This case shows the importance of ensuring participation in the public sector. I do not share the theoretical approach that there should be public-sector participation, i.e. communities and countries, at all. I also think he is unbelievable, especially when he comes from representatives of the ÖVP and, in turn, from representatives of the Lower Austrian ÖVP. I would like to comment on a very different point and in particular on Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Höchtl. There are 3 000 employees in Lower Austria who are still in the field of the sovereign administration of the country. Not even distributed, let alone privatized, this road administration. I know that the ÖVP representatives in Lower Austria defend themselves with hands and feet only if they talk about a breakdown of this road administration – I am not talking about privatisation. If the same Members now want to go here and tell us that they are against any public property at all, then I can only say: I'm not taking this from them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6102	The next speech is by Mr Böhacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6123	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the face of the approaching Christmas festival, the words "Every year again!" It's all right. Mr Finanzminister! Every year there is not only the happy message, but every year again you or the coalition provide the Austrian taxpayer with a tax-change law, which is usually a tax law. [[Abg. Koppler: You said that last year!]] Under the Structural Adjustment Act, which was adopted in spring 1996, we are even dealing today with a double-packed tax-change law, with the result, Mr Federal Minister, that in 1996, for example, the Income Tax Act has already been amended three times. Federal Minister! What do you want? Are you, in fact, the powerless taxpayer in Austria, regardless of whether workers, entrepreneurs, farmers or freelances still have everything to do with it? Faith Are you really saying that Mr and Mrs Österreicher have nothing more to do than constantly learn and implement new tax laws? Faith Do you really believe that your practice ensures the beard principles of the tax system, of tax law such as predictability, continuity and legal certainty? Federal Minister! With this policy you create legal uncertainty, you do not create continuity, and there is no longer any predictability in tax law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is absolutely anti-investment, anti-economic and anti-location! If an investor, whether foreign or domestic, can no longer rely on tax laws to be valid for at least one or two years, if tax laws are amended retroactively, if tax laws are amended retroactively in the constitutional order and thus the access to the law is denied, how do you, Mr Federal Minister, want to bring a foreign investor to Austria, who is investing here and creating jobs? How do you want to do this from the point of view of tax law? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Work destruction is the à la Novotny!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Quite the contrary, with the increase in car taxes, 1,500 jobs from Salzburg are migrated to neighbouring Bavaria. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The work place of the eater is very mobile. It is easy for him to determine whether he has his operating location in Salzburg or 6 kilometers further in neighboring Bavaria. Federal Minister! Here you would really need action to finally let a tax legislation take place again, which is predictable and has continuity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The increase in car taxes, Mr. Federal Minister, has justified you, among other things, by standing up to what you promised and announced before the referendum on EU accession. It honors you if you keep your promises. Only you should be a little more consistent here. What about the promise you made before the referendum that you did not make tax increases and the promise to create 50 000 more jobs net, to achieve higher economic growth, and not to impose a higher burden on the 13th and 14ths? Introduce salary? Where have you implemented and complied with your promises? Since, Mr Federal Minister, you have become verbal, your argument as to compliance with vehicle tax claims is therefore not permitted. The time is running with huge steps away. – Minister of State! Another criticism of this tax-change law is that once again you introduce a provision in § 26a corporate tax law, namely the loss allocations. I agree with you that the example of the CA subsidiary, quoted by you, which in Germany immediately assigns securities as revenue-expenditure accounts as losses, is a misuse. Completely d’accord. But with this determination, pour out the child with the bath. I can't just change a law because of individual abuses. This construction would also have had to be prevented by existing laws alone in accordance with the Federal Tax Code. In connection with the support of the loss talks, you must now make a legal salto mortale backward. If, although losses are suspended in 1996/97, there are tax-free gains, the loss premium must nevertheless be claimed. This is the result of an unfair tax policy, Minister of State! I would like to come to the EU Amendment Act for a short time. There is also a change in the VAT Act. In the course of accession to the EU, it was necessary that from 1 January 1994 onwards. 1. In 1997 in the field of health care, the incorrect tax exemption takes place. And there is now a special situation for a hospital in Spittal on the Drau. This is a GmbH that is not a public law body but on the other hand has been equipped with public law. In accordance with the current legal provisions of § 6 para. 1 C 18 not the possibility to benefit from the incorrect tax exemption. I should therefore like to make a motion for a resolution in this context. [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be urgently necessary in order to create a corresponding equality before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6219	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Fink. Please, honourable Member. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit are shown.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6244	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too am referring to a very critical attitude towards this EU tax-change law. However, I would like to point out that, as the Federal Minister has already said, road transport has also been reduced from 72 000 S to 16 700 S in recent years. That's a big amount. However, it should also be noted that it is not only the domestic fishermen, but also the foreign fishers. At the same time, however, the car tax is increased by 5 S and 15 S per tonne respectively. However, I believe that this small increase in the car tax will also lead to a distortion of competition, because the Treaty of Accession provides for full liberalisation and therefore also for the introduction of cabotage in Austria. This means that foreign operators in cross-border transport and now also in inland Austrian road freight transport can offer lower fixed costs. There will be an eviction competition between foreign and domestic yielders. For me, that means that there is increasing pressure on the fishers too. The car tax – which is to be found – is the highest in Europe with around 40 000 S for a 40-tonne load train. In Germany this tax is about 26 000 S, in Holland about 14 000 S, in Italy about 12 000 S and in France only 3 000 S. Not for nothing, Mr. Federal Minister, an Italian big-render is now subscribing the Austrian fixed prices by about 20 percent. It is also my wish that the transport of goods should be shifted from road to rail. But I would rather say that the Austrian Federal Railways should be given a say and not forced action by the government must only make the railway more competitive. I believe that if farms are even more burdened, foreign competition is increasing. Truck transport – that is my opinion – will certainly not decrease, perhaps domestic freight traffic, but will certainly increase by the release of cabotage. Federal Minister! You are certainly right if you say it is inadmissible to consider the car tax only isolated. I would like to thank you for providing us with documents so that the differences between foreign and domestic fishermen can be better worked out in relation to the overall burden. It turns out that, taking into account the overall tax burden, that is, if not only the car tax is considered unilaterally, as I have done, the Austrian farmers are not so badly cut off. Finally, I believe that the compromise can be accepted as soon as possible by the rapid introduction of road pricing to foreign carriers. On this basis, I will give my consent to the EU Amendment Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6292	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6313	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! – The surprise has obviously succeeded! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: With tie and Gilet!]] [[Abg. Koppler: Upper Austria has elections next year!]] [[Further calls.]] I have rarely received as much approval as today due to tie and westerl! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] After six years I only know what the secret recipe would be in this house! I hope we can do something about it now, and you will do more to me, not only in terms of fashion issues, but also in terms of content. We'll see what's going to happen. [[Further calls.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is so after six years of parliamentary activity that I can still wonder at times – meal, Minister! – not about the Minister’s appetite – that’s quite all right, it’s lunchtime, even a bit better than that – but primarily to wonder how consistent or inconsistent some political line is in this House. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate Eats]] In recent years – at the time, Mr Klima was still Transport Ministers – we have held many debates in this House on the issue of cost-truth in transport. I think it was Mr Eder who today pointed out that these steps should not be watered down in the direction of cost truth et cetera. All political groups always agree when we talk about it theoretically: Of course, we need to take steps towards cost-truth, of course, cost what it wants. - No, hoppala, stop! It does not cost what it wants, but when it comes to concrete costs and concrete measures, it always says: Stop! Rethink, a bit slower steps, an international equinox et cetera. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it ever disputed that in Austria we have an incredible cross-subsidisation of the truck by the car. It is also not disputed that there are massive difficulties of the Austrian Federal Railways in the area of competitive opportunities compared to the road, also due to the lack of cost-truth and the lack of measures towards compensation and cost-truth. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I remember that, for example, the Austrian Freedom Party, the FPÖ, I believe, has now returned to it, for example in the debates on EU accession, quite vehemently and energetically insisted that the demands and commitments of the Federal Government towards citizens, that there is no distortion of this cost-truth, do not need to be approved of the truck transport. Of course, the two government parties have declared: Of course, this commitment will be respected as in the field of agriculture. The Minister referred briefly to this debate. Once it becomes concrete, then the Freedom Party FPÖ suddenly no longer means the Freedom Party, but then FP stands for the accelerator "Frachter Party". [[Call to the liberals:Hahaha!]] – There is a very hard lobbying policy, there it is completely wretched. Meschberger, look at this! This is not only an interesting topic for tax policy, but also for you as a Tyrolean MP. You should be a champion of cost-truth. This is always the topic of the Freedom Party in Tyrol. And what if these delegates are in Vienna? – Then all of this is indifferent, then Früchterlobbypolitik, FP-politik, Frachterpolitik is made one by one. On the ÖVP side, the situation is completely the same. I do not understand that one has a head of state in Tyrol, which, on the one hand, makes itself at least rhetorical, but at times very practical, the question of transit policy and over-rolling of Tyrol a matter of its own, but on the other hand makes a completely opposite policy here in this House. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From 72 000 S prior to accession to the EU, the tax burden on trucks was gradually reduced by the road-use fee / heavy-duty tax to 16 000 S. This is a dramatic approval of truck traffic. That is to say, a heating of truck traffic on the road, that is to say a dramatic deterioration for the federal railways as far as competition is concerned. - That's the real situation. Now, as Mr Klima calls it, we have a compromise. I would also say that it is a compromise between what would be necessary in order to actually compensate for these reductions, and the interest of the provider, which at least two political groups of the House are fully militant and offensive. It is a compromise, but one remains on the track in this compromise. It does not comply with the promise that road traffic will not be approved by EU accession. And although this is not the case with light trucks, the toughest ones can be discussed, but especially with the lighter ones in the 24-, 28-, 32-ton range, this is not respected. This is a clearly broken promise that remains on the track. Secondly, it is not in keeping with the promise that there will be a fair chance of competition between transit routes on the environment and also towards the Federal Railways. That is not the case either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance has given the figures as to what the tax situation in comparison with the neighbouring countries of Austria looks like, and this burden on the truck, this tax policy in the direction of trucks, is negative for Austria. This can, of course, be welcomed from the point of view of the sparklers, from the point of view of the environment, but from the point of view of the transit trainers this is anything but welcome. We have lower tax total taxes than Italy, than Switzerland and also – already marginally, but nevertheless – Germany. This is a situation to which we are referred by the government bank and also by the colleagues on the part of the SPÖ towards road pricing. Now we know exactly that the next blockade is waiting. The wording in the Committee's report, which stated that the road pricing for passenger cars would be implemented as soon as possible, is a very soft formulation. I know that there are massive interests on the part of these two women's parties in this House that there is, in fact, the greatest possible postponement of road pricing for the truck. It cannot be said, therefore, that for five years, six years in this House, we are discussing the fact that for five years, all political groups in this House have taken steps towards cost-truth and that then the necessary measures are not taking place, but, on the contrary, measures are taking place in the opposite direction and that transit traffic on the road is being further stimulated by a completely false one-sided tariff policy for the truck. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They will decide this wrong regulation here and today, but the last hope there is in this context is de facto a very committed and necessarily offensive policy of Austria in the area of redrafting the EU Road Costs Directive. This is, in addition to the road pricing in Austria, the only positive control instrument that remains for us and which we want to make quite massive pressure on so that there is no further approval of the truck traffic, so that the railway has a real, fair chance and thus, above all, the transit countries, the transit railers and thus the environment as a whole will get a chance again. Because of what you decide here today, they have no chance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6401	Mr Dr. König is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member. 6 minutes of voluntary limitation are indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6422	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Anschober has said here that he does not understand, and I fear he will never understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not a question of a milling lobby, but it is a question of maintaining and not endangering jobs in Austria in an industry that is mainly small and medium-sized. The fact that these jobs are not transferred abroad is the subject of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Suspicion.]] – I don’t have time to discuss with you now. I'm just like you are the other side of the problem. The Minister has rightly pointed out that the considerable increase in toll on the burner is all the same, foreigners and foreigners, but by the strong use of foreigners, of course, the foreign trucks hit very strongly. It is true that, as a whole, taking the fuel into account when it comes to road use and the tax on motor vehicles, Austria is quite comparable. Only that does not help in the specific situation, and you know that too, Minister, because with 1. In January 1997, freedom of cabotage came into force. That is to say, it can also carry out a German truck or an Italian truck transport in Austria, and then the Austrian regulations, the Austrian diesel price and the Austrian road usage fee, which is the same for all but the much lower car tax, which is 50 percent lower in Germany and even lower in Italy. That is the situation, and I therefore welcome it and welcome the Austrian People's Party that they finally agreed to a half reduction in the originally planned increase in the tax on motor vehicles in order to reduce these effects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also have to say, I believe, that the reduction in the cost of road use is one that we are obliged to comply with contractually. We thereby adhere to the contractual obligation. And, of course, the budget must be kept in order so that we do not endanger our schilling so that the schilling can also go along with the hard currency union and not be disconnected from the D-Mark and thus run the risk of sinking into the soft currency block as a soft currency. But what is the crucial question that arises for the future? – The road pricing has been tailor-made by you, Mr. Anschober mentioned it. We need to consider the road pricing: As right as it is to introduce the road pricing, we can't make an Austrian single entrance here either. Because if a German truck carries out a transport from Salzburg to Vienna, it will have the same cost by road pricing. But if he only enters Innsbruck from Germany, the story looks quite different than when I drive from Vienna to Innsbruck. Then he will perhaps pay for the Austrian road pricing at 30 kilometres, and we will pay it at 450 kilometres, and thus we will have a huge cost to the east of Austria, especially in food transport, especially in low-value goods, which goes even so far as to put industrial firms in the East that produce it at real risk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The railways can only be used accordingly if they are not also covered by such cheap offers from abroad. It does not change whether an Austrian truck is being pushed out by a foreign car, which does not make the railway a tonne-kilometre anymore, but we must try to ensure that we implement the new road cost directive within the EU so that we can carry out road pricing in the same way as in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! Two more urgent requests. Please make sure that we review the extent to which those Eastern States that have imposed retortion measures on the occasion of the introduction of the Austrian road use fee now take them back, to which they would be obliged if the road use fee was now reduced so much! [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] And please agree that, before the end of the year, the scheme on third country transport, which has been negotiated with Germany, will be signed in the transport resort, which is very crucial, so that there will not be a decisive disadvantage to foreign competition in Austria too! If this effort becomes visible, then we will also be able to compete with our transport policy within the EU, and that must be our common goal!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6509	There is no further word message. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting also does not take place. We shall now proceed to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Amendment Act 1996 and the title and receipt in 552 of the Supplements. Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the part concerned by this request and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article IZ 2b. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on Rule I.Z.2b, as amended by the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. . The body referred to is adopted by a majority in the version of the Committee's report. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This decision-making process is also carried out by a majority. This report has been accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft EU Amendment Act, together with the title and receipt in 553 of the Supplements. Hiezu has asked for a separate vote on Article IV of the draft law, Mr Böhacker. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I shall vote on Article IV of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Article IV of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, has been adopted by a large majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of confirmation. – This is decided by a majority. We come to the third reading at the same time. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this to be an appropriate sign. – This has also been accepted by the majority at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the equality of public institutions with public law bodies. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (459 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 1996 (BFG-Novelle 1996) (519 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (460 of the Supplements): 2. Budgetary Overrun Act 1996 – 2. CONVENTION 1996 (518 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6647	We now come to the points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held in one. These are the reports of the Committee on Budgets on Government templates. 459 of the supplements: Bundesfinanzgesetz-Novelle 1996, 519 of the Supplements, and 460 of the supplements: 2. Budgetary Overrun Act 1996, 518 of the Supplements. There was no oral reporting. We are now starting the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. – Mr deputies, you have a 10 minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6687	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the Government's 459 proposal is to provide for the possibility of setting up reserves for expenditure which cannot be estimated in a budget, for example, for procedural costs, because the legal proceedings in question have not yet been completed, or for funds under the Labour Market Promotion Act. All of that would actually make sense. The 460 Government template is about the 1996 budget overrun, in a scale of 1.1 billion schilling, with 278 million schilling being brought in by savings in expenditure from other departments. 814 million schillings are made up of more revenue. These are not new credit recordings, but more revenue resulting from simply rebooking 809 million schilling in the postal service. Although the post is actually bad, from there the budget flows to 800 million schilling to finance budget excesses. Mr Finanzminister! This is a process that we absolutely cannot blame. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! This item on the agenda also gives us the opportunity to deal with your budget once again. I have been in the National Council since 1993 – before I was in the Federal Council – and since that time no budget has gone over the stage on schedule at all. We have had budget surpluses of up to 40, 45, 50 percent. The 1996 budget also escapes you – despite a massive burden pact for the population! - again. They want to present at the end of the calendar year a budget deficit in the order of 89 billion schilling. At the end of October, you were in charge of 132 billion schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much?]] - 132 billion! These are your own statements, Mr. Finanzminister. At the end of November, you have made estimates in the order of 119 billion schilling, and now you want to make it clear to the House that within a month you will take 30 billion shillings more so that you will come to 89 billion schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The ÖVP is not interested at all!]] These 89 billion schillings will never reach you. No Minister of Finance, whom I have ever experienced here, has ever complied with his budget. Mr Finanzminister! At this point I have to ask you: How do you imagine that? – They simply count on 8.5 billion shillings of privatisation proceeds. You know very well that this 8.5 billion schilling cannot be taken into account for the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. In addition, you can't reach the mentioned privatisation proceeds at all. They simply belong 17 percent of Bank Austria to the postal investment company. In any case, they were honest and said that this is not a privatisation, unlike the representatives of the Austrian People's Party, who presented it in the Financial Committee. Mr Finanzminister! What kind of privatization is that supposed to be? – Forget You finally have this budget position in your budget planning! There has been no privatisation in this area as it should have been. What to understand What about privatization? – They divide the shares of Bank Austria, and you are again lord over these shares. What's changed? - Nothing at all! The money was just flown from one bag to the other. That's what you call privatisation! Now I come to the topic "Bank Austria". I am absolutely convinced that it is a philosophy to create a large money institution in Austria, which is internationally competitive. But it really has no philosophy, Mr Finance Minister, when party policy tactics are being used, so that one on the other is evil if he does not get on the deal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When the discussion on the privatisation of the CA began, the area of the Rauffeise telephone was in conversation. But this did not please the red half of the empire, but the ÖVP. Now, another solution is to be chosen. There is an offer of 16 billion Schilling, which is really an attractive offer, but this attractive offer does not, of course, fit the Austrian People's Party. Look at this: The banks or the money institutions are not a playground for your political activities! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are truly not a way of playing for party political interests, namely that people are accommodated there, only so that they are provided because they fit in either as red or black somewhere. That's not the way it is! Mr Finanzminister! Privatization only makes sense if it does not happen in this way, and that is what we expect. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Dr. Haider asked you what visions you have in the field of privatisation. I must tell you quite honestly that you did not suggest in a single sentence what you understand by privatisation. Let me ask you again, or ask you: At last tell the House what visions of privatisation you have! [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He doesn't want that! The Chamber of Workers says no!]] If your privatisation vision looks such that you transfer shares of a bank institution, which are currently largely in the federal state, to another bank institution where the majority of shares have the municipality of Vienna within the framework of the share management, I must tell you: You're really hard at it! [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] I have to tell you the following: The minimum share of Bank Austria, which is 10 percent, is really small. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Mr Finanzminister! If you really mean it with privatisation, you tell the House here how you imagine privatisation, instead of continuing to help yourself with any pocket-player tricks, because you can't imagine any more of the Austrian people or Members here in the House. Finally, let me say the truth, Minister of Finance. There's something else I'd like to criticize sharply. You are – you have said it yourself – the accountant. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Accountant!]] They are accountants or sack-keepers or financial referents, and you have to deal with this matter with a certain degree of care. According to Professor Frisch, the Minister of Finance or his distributed government debt agency is rather concerned about currency speculation. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You didn't understand fresh!]] I have already understood freshly, and I also tell you, Professor, why fresh has meant this. It has found that between 1980 and 1994 there had been a rise in price losses in the order of 114 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's all wrong!]] He also noted that in 1995 the Yen had made a profit of 10.5 billion schilling. However, he also found that the same year there were 5.5 billion schillings of price losses in the Swiss franc. Now you or the head of your government debt management, Mr. Eder – and he is still the boss of banking supervision Dr. Stanzel, whom we know from unloving participation experience from Australia – say: This is not a problem at all, since the debts are never repaid anyway! We never need to realize the price losses! In this context, however, it forgets that, for a ten-year financing period, the interest rate share is about 45 per cent, and it also forgets that, if you stick to the same currency and exchange in the same currency, the foreign currency debt in that currency is increasing steadily. And that's the point: You never get out of this area! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This criticism is expressed not only by fresh people but also by other well-known Austrian financial scientists. You know a lot of them. Mr Novotny, do not always speak so nine times here in the House, although you know that this is not about speculation, but about serious financial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6844	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6865	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to comment on Mr Trattner's words on currency speculation, which is an expert – he is, as I think, busy in this sector. However, the question arises over and over again whether private individuals can do something to finance more cheaply, which is not permitted by the state. I would like to focus briefly on the 1995 federal accounts. Minus 15.6 billion schilling is not a very encouraging value. The 1995 budget deviation was really anything but gratifying. The causes are – and this is noted when you try to read and interpret the Court of Auditors' report precisely – on a number of essential points. Point one was that nominal growth was far too high and was clearly missed with the forecast value of 5.8 percent. In fact, only 3.8 percent of nominal growth was achieved. Anyone who knows how a change in the tax revenue by a tenth of GDP will affect will automatically be able to calculate how much the budget is missing. The problem I see is the fact that every Minister of Finance in the Republic repeatedly resorts to the economic researchers' forecasts and is very much focused on them when it comes to budget creation. Although it is very easy to change a prognosis under age, it is very difficult for the Minister of Finance to respond immediately. For these reasons, the Minister of Finance has already asked the IHS and the Wifo to work together to produce only one forecast for the coming years. The forecast for the coming year is a rather very careful comparison with German forecasts. Secondly, Tax revenue fell in 1995. Now you could say: Of course, logically, if growth is lower, tax revenue is of course also lower. The Court of Auditors found, however, that there were no structural reductions in revenue in itself, but that the major tax reform in 1993 was crucial solely to the fact that there were still less revenue in 1995. However, it is also interesting to note that, although the State has been more indebted to it, the Austrians have experienced a real increase in income, which has been above average: For example, self-employed income rose nominally by 3.8 percent, the income from property and enterprise by 4.6 percent, and this at an inflation rate of 2.2 percent. So it can be said that the Austrians actually became more wealthy at the expense of the economy, at the expense of the financial economy of that country. These results then found their rainfall in the 1995 savings package. We know that expenditure-reducing and revenue-raising measures have been necessary. The 1996 budget – as we hear from the Minister of Finance at the very moment – will not show any such deviations as the 1995 budget was recorded. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6917	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6938	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item is of great dryness and rather technical nature. It is, of course, close to temptation to talk about something quite different, such as foreign currency financing. I would like to avoid this because I would also be in conflict there or there. But the following, Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to say here as an opposition representative: Obviously, you have succeeded in ensuring that the 1996 budget is in the tolerance area, which, as those who know how to deal with figures, budgets and budgets, is inevitable. I therefore believe that it is also appropriate, even if we always give you Saures – and, as we believe, with good law – to make this compliment to you and your officials once, since it is obvious that, for the first time after many years, it has succeeded in keeping a budget deficit as it has been forecast. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am not disturbed by the 115 billion schilling – as of November. It's clear how the line goes. The trend will match. So I also think that it will be 90 billion schilling. If we still cannot be so happy about it, then because it is also clear why it has succeeded in keeping this budget deficit to the forecasted extent. Tax revenue has increased by 66 billion schilling. These are the effects of the savings package. And I regret the fact that there will be a recalculation of the invoice that the much-promised formula, i.e. half of the revenue on the part of the revenue side and half the expenditure on the part of the contribution, cannot be respected. They will have a much higher percentage on the revenue side than on the expenditure side. That is what you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, have written in the main book. It would have been for you, Mr Lukesch, and your colleagues, to trust that you will recognize our forecast of a third to two thirds, also in good time as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6984	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7014	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's true: We are dealing with a very dry matter at this item on the agenda. It's about the budget breach law and a federal financial law novelle. Every year we have such laws to deal with in this House. I admit: Last year it was a little more exciting. In 1995 there was even a non-coalition area, on the question of the agricultural environmental promotion programme, in which we were able to increase with the help of other parties. It has already become a routine for us to decide every year on measures which could not be estimated in the preparation of the budget. This is also the case in this year, i.e. in the 1996 budget. The essential thing about this has already been said: It's about 809 million schilling in connection with the "year of falling" of the post. As you know, we had a budget commission from January to April 1996. We can calmly agree to this budget overrun law, because all budget overruns are covered by expenditure redundancies, additional revenue and a small part even by withdrawal of reserves. This budget overrun is also necessary and important in order to continue normal administrative activity. But still, let me say the following: Even if we deal with a budget overrun every year or even several, one thing you have to say already – you can't do it for that, that's what it is: There is no complete picture because not all budget excesses are included in this law. For example, legal obligations are not included. You have the authority to do so. I believe that the Minister of Finance is one of the most powerful ministers from the point of view, because he also receives many empowerments from the Committee on Budgets, which I also belong to. But by one example, I would like to explain how distorted this can be seen. If you look at the federal grant for pension insurance, you will find the following: We are, as far as I have the figures correctly in mind, around 3 billion schilling grossly above what is included in the proposal. If you calculate the return flows away, it is about 1.5 billion shilling net that we have to spend more. For example, this is not included in the law. That is, the budget law, as we decide today, does not reflect all of this. I admit, however, that it is very well covered by law. Mr Finanzminister! I would therefore have a suggestion that you, I hope, will respond later, if you then, I suppose, still speak. . We receive regular documentation from the Budget Committee on the implementation of the budget: Figures, figures and facts. It would be very interesting if this data would also be attached to an annex indicating what the rest of the year actually looks like. So if, for example, I now get the figures in October, as a Member of Parliament or as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I can very well track what the whole thing has developed until October, and then it would be interesting for me and for everyone else to know what the preview for the next two months looks like – due to the current state of play. It would be useful to follow this suggestion once. It is important that this budget overrun law does not increase the end of the general budget. I would also like to say something about the budget: As we see, the two-year budget has proved successful in 1996/97. So you can plan over a longer period of time. This allows certain structural reforms to be implemented in peace and without hecticism. I could imagine – there are already discussions about it – that we are also planning a biennial budget for 1998 and 1999. There are several reasons for this. First: With regard to consultation mechanisms and stability pacts and in the light of the convergence criteria, it would be important to provide for a longer period for budget creation. There is a very ambitious programme on the part of the Federal Government for 1999: Implementation of the euro, Stability Pact, EU Presidency and so on. It would be important, therefore, to know how it continues in numbers until 1999. In the next few years, we need a budget implementation as consistently as we did in 1996. Therefore, I would also like to politically oppose the stress considerations of the left, as they repeatedly appear in the media, here and give them a clear rejection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some still believe that tax increases and new burdens can stimulate the economy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Maderthaner: wage cuts! Holidays for spa stays!]] I note that there has been a great deal of progress. As mayor of a small town in the small Burgenland, for example, I welcome the introduction of the consultation mechanism, and I believe that it is also necessary for us to conclude stability pacts. As far as the 1996 budget is concerned, I can agree with the speaker of the Liberal Forum that the deficit estimated should be respected. There are, however, two uncertainties, Mr Minister, perhaps you can also address them. Safety factor number one: What about the 13th? USt rate out in December? You don't know, you can only estimate that. Secondly, What about the capital income tax on interest? Is that going to be true? I do not want to hide the fact that many issues still have to be discussed in the Subcommittee on Budgets. They have been working on a number of topics here, and we need to talk about them intensively. We must also, I believe, address how we will be in line with the pension scheme in the future, because in my opinion, we have not solved the problem for so long as the federal government has to pay more and more money. This requires even more intensive work. But still: I am sure that with joint effort it will be possible to create the next few years as well. That is why these two legislative proposals will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7060	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7081	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner is right. It's actually difficult, with great paint and great zeal over the 2nd. To debate the budget overrun law or the second Federal Finance Act-Novelle. These are small, though not uninteresting, stories in themselves. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Nevertheless, we will not agree to the two laws, for traditional reasons, because consent to small budget amendments could be accepted as consent to the 1996 and 1997 budget, and this cannot, of course, be the task of an opposition party. But if we are already discussing the budget and budget questions, I would like to talk to something else, namely: I take away from today's edition of the "Standard", on page 6, a beautiful portrait, on which several national leaders are very pleased to be together and seem to be talking about the advantages of the so-called consultation mechanism. I am going to explain to you what open questions I see in this regard. First of all, I would like to point out that President Heinz Fischer was also present in the "Standard", in the issue of the previous one, of the 9th century. December, an opinion on the consultation mechanism in which he – I do not know if he has said this literally, but he is literally quoted – says: This consultation mechanism is no longer harmful, but it does nothing more. This is an interesting statement about something that has been made medially a lot of whirlwind. The red carpets were rolled out for the heads of state, for the representatives of the Municipal and Municipal Governments, and it was said that this had been negotiated for years and now the consultation mechanism was finally there. This is an Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities. But President Heinz Fischer says that this does not mean anything, and that is why we do not need a law of our own. I think this interview has been a little shortened. I assume that this consultation mechanism still needs to be carried out by the National Council in one form or another. Let me just say: It is not as great as it is presented here – and also isolated by journalists – because most of what is set out in the consultation mechanism has already been – but ineffectively – and if the consultation mechanism is to have an effect, then in the way that the federal government is primarily burdened by it. While countries and communities do not get a veto right against laws that the federal government decides, they receive – at least the intention – additional opposition rights. On this point I have to say: The consultation mechanism essentially refers to § 14 of the Federal Budget Act, i.e. the precise calculation obligation for laws. We have had this before. The Federal Ministry of Finance itself is the Ministry of Finance, which has at least adhered to this calculation obligation. This is to be read in the last Court of Auditors report. In essence, that local authority is to take over the costs resulting from a law which the law or measure in question has decided. That's nice and good. But this provision is primarily at the expense of the federal government because it will be difficult for the communities to adopt provisions at the expense of the federal government. In the event of a dispute, as stated in Article 4 of the Consultation Mechanism, the Constitutional Court shall decide in accordance with Article 137 B-VG. – Yes, my God, in the event of gross violations of constitutional provisions, the Constitutional Court could have been called upon so far. He was therefore called almost never, because this could already be explained in advance in the negotiations between the federal states and the federal government. However, it is not certain that any high-ranking, but politically high-ranking, bodies will decide by themselves that they can almost call on the Constitutional Court as arbitrators. In this case, I could do that, too, if I could agree with someone of yours. Finally, I wonder whether the main points of conflict have just been eliminated by the consultation mechanism. Why? – Because Article 5 states that two areas are excluded. Which areas are these? – The tax law and the financial compensation. These are the primary areas where the cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities is defined, and if this remains the case – I am not against it – I feel first of all as a representative of the federal government and not any federal state – if this is not regulated, then the degree of influence of this consultation mechanism will be small. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Excuse me, the financial compensation will be negotiated anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Every five years!]] Yes, of course! It was negotiated, it was negotiated and, in extreme cases, a local authority, if it actually felt excessive, could object to the financial compensatory negotiations in the context of the Financial Constitutional Act. I am not saying that the consultation mechanism is bad, but I am more interested in President Heinz Fischer's opinion that he is not something special, so to speak. It is precisely a strengthening of the rule that has already been complied with, that negotiations must be negotiated. That's all right! But if it were to go further, it would be problematic because it could be a blockade against the covenant, one-sided against the covenant. I believe that the Minister of Finance has also understood the negotiations on this point, because I believe that, in the consultation mechanism, Article 6 or a footnote at the end is really important, and that the Federal Government assumes that the consultation mechanism only has a meaning if it comes to the so-called Stability Pact between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities. If this Stability Pact is not concluded – that is in a footnote at the end of this Treaty – then the Federation would terminate the consultation mechanism. That's interesting! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Who?]] I don't know! How a partner can get out again is already quite regulated in this work. But this is really interesting, not the consultation mechanism, but the forthcoming so-called Stability Pact. Why is the so-called Stability Pact so important? – There will be a so-called Stability Pact between the Republic of Austria and the European Union in any form whatsoever. I always say "so-called" because at the time when I was studying, something else has been understood by stability than what is meant here, namely the interaction of low inflation rates, low unemployment rates, high growth rates and so on and so on, not a one-sided approach to certain fiscal goals. But it has now become the expression "stability pact" in this context. Especially because of the Federal Republic of Germany, there will be something in this relationship at EU level, although the guidelines of this Stability Pact are already set out in the Maastricht Treaty – this is often overlooked. What is now being negotiated at the political level – particularly in Dublin – is "completely" – under quotations – the padding or concreteisation of the Maastricht Treaty, so to speak, the acceleration of the procedure and, in relation to individual points, the precise definition of the ponale or deposit to be deposited in Brussels when a so-called excessive deficit is not reduced. There are no problems in the relationship between the European Union and Vienna where the parties are clear: This is, on the one hand, the Council or the Commission in Brussels and, on the other, the Minister of Finance at Austrian level. However, this Stability Pact is not 1 : 1 transferable to the Austrian side because we do not have two, but about 2 010 contracting partners, namely over 2 000 municipalities, nine federal states and the federal government. The interesting question will be what happens in the following case: The Republic of Austria exceeds the permitted deficit of 3 per cent of GDP and is unable to reduce it in time; there are the requirements on the part of Brussels on the relevant deposits or the fee for the European budget. Who's gonna pay for this? For it could happen, for example, that the federal government very well adheres to the agreements that were reached in Austria – for example, for 1997 2.7 percent of GDP for the federal government, 0.3 percent for countries and municipalities – but that the municipalities are clearly superior. Then what? Who pays the ponale? – It is clear to Brussels: the Republic of Austria, that is the Federation. But this is of course a certain nuisance. It must be agreed here that the person who is actually guilty of these penalties also comes up. In the Federal Republic of Germany, too, the debate between the Federal Government, the countries and the municipalities is very intense, we say. With regard to the municipalities, we have the interesting phenomenon that about two thirds of all municipalities are currently so-called deficit communities, i.e. they have deficits in their budgets, and a third of the municipalities have surpluses in their budgets, Maastricht surpluses. Now, if the communities as a whole exceed their limit, I wonder: Who is the culprit: the communities that have not reduced their deficit, or those who have not increased their surplus? How do they make the "individual" fixed within the 2 000 communities that would then have to pay the fee? These are very interesting and, as I try to point out, complicated questions – Mr. Lukesch nodds – which are, in fact, far more important and far more interesting than the so-called consultation mechanism. In this context, I am surprised that the consultation mechanism provides for an agreement to be reached on the so-called Stability Pact until 31. ==References====External links== That means that a pact should be available at the latest at that time. ==References== 12. In 1998, however, the decision on monetary union has long been taken. I think that this decision should have been made a year earlier. It may not be too late, but it's very late. Apparently, the coalition parties assume that the budgets for the years 1998 and 1999 will somehow be launched at the political level – even without a Stability Pact – because at the end of the 31st century. 12. In 1998, the 1999 budget must also have been decided. One last point in this context – Mr Federal Minister – you will undoubtedly be able to speak on these agenda items, because I would have a very specific question: I have read to the newspapers that what has already been feared since November, namely that the Austrian Central Statistical Office is revising the VGR, the economic account, and the social product, the gross domestic product of Austria by 80 billion, if I am not mistaken, for 1995. If this is the case for 1995, it means, of course, that the starting point for 1996, 1997, 1998 and so on is another. And since these two fiscal criteria are relative figures – 3% of GDP or 60% of GDP – this changes the starting point for meeting the Maastricht criteria. If GDP is revised by 80 billion in the denominator of this break, that means that the deficit figures for 1995/96 – again above the thumbs – will increase by 0.3 percent of GDP. Instead of 5,9, we then adopted 6,2 for 1995, and for 1997 we would have a deficit not of 3.0% of GDP, but one of 3.3% and thus clearly miss the target target. I've often stressed it: I am not personally disturbed, but we all know that, in particular, strict compliance with 3.0 is required by the Federal Republic of Germany. For statistical reasons alone, we have now, despite these restrictive budgets for 1996/97... [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Confronted with the shadow economy!]] Yes, the counter-receipt with the shadow economy. I think that's very worrying. What will the other countries do, what will Italy, France and so on when we go in there with fictitious figures? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: EU law is mandatory! Not later than 1999!]] The good thing about it can be that the Maastricht criteria are taken even less seriously than they are now. For one must be clear to everyone: If we change the denominator of the break with fictitious figures on the shadow economy, then the popularity is quite large space open. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The question of the precision of the calculation is one thing, but that they belong to the economy, you will not dispute as a national economist!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is also contribution-relevant!]] I won't disapprove of that. But the problem of the shadow economy – and you know that too, Mr Khol – is that, depending on the method of calculating, you change between x and y percent of the social product between which there is a great distance. Again: My problem is not because I consider the Maastricht criteria to be nonsense. But if the financial markets do not share my opinion – I hope, of course, that my opinion prevails – then you could come into trouble here, as it were, indebtedly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7202	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. Mr deputies, you have a speaking time of 20 minutes at your disposal. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that I am going to interrupt you at 3 p.m. because of the call for a urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7224	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The basis for the conduct of a financial year is the applicable federal financial law. In this financial year, developments have occurred in the implementation of the 1996 Federal Financial Act, which cannot be taken into account in accordance with the current budgetary provisions. For this reason, the legislator needs to create the legal conditions necessary for this purpose in order to be able to complete the financial year properly. The government template before us will meet all these requirements. I would just like to briefly outline what it is all about, while stressing the importance of this bill. The first article of this proposal ensures that there is provision for the provision of reserves for funds which have not been used, thus ensuring the financing of labour market policies and the proper use of EU funds. In addition, this Article states that, in any case in later years, the Federal Government may, from pending court proceedings, which are not to be taken into account, carry out such expenditure amounts of the estimate approach of a deposit. The second article of this Government template aims at opening up estimates of Titles and Sections which ensure the proper calculation of revenue and expenditure. In particular in the field of education, separate estimates must be opened in order to be able to properly book the revenue of the school instruction rental – these are the well-known and discussed fees from the rental of gymnasiums to clubs. And the third article includes, in particular, changes that allow staff measures to lead to qualitative changes due to reorganisation measures. In addition to this, it is still necessary to point out that, if these qualitative changes result in cost reduction or cost neutrality, administrative economic action should ensure a rapid response in order to implement cost reduction. So far, the strict commitment to the establishment plan – caused by the remuneration reform – has hindered these measures. Article III also provides for the possibility of taking up substitutes instead of women's executive staff if they take leave of leave, because the trend to be assessed as positive, namely an ever-increasing number of women in the executive sector, makes this measure indispensable. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This bill, which aims to amend the 1996 Federal Finance Act, includes important changes which ensure proper conduct and which can be used even more efficiently. That is why I would like to give my group's support to this draft Government, and I hope that you will all follow this example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7272	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schreiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7293	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A budget overrun law is – and this is the second one this year – a re-adjustment, Minister of Finance, if three factors become striking: First: You can't be surprised. Secondly, Unforeseen events occur. Thirdly, Parts of revenue fall out or are reduced. We are dealing here with a budget overrun law, which certainly has no very large volume, just 1.1 billion schilling. I wonder, Minister of Finance, what this will look like in 1997; we already have a budget for this calendar year. Consider the following scenario: There are currently x complaints concerning the minimum corporate tax, and only the abolition of the minimum corporation tax could mean a few billion shillings of loss of revenue. It is also a constitutional court complaint due to the social security obligation in respect of works contracts pending, and if this case falls, it costs you a lot of money in the budget. We are also faced with the problem of increasing unemployment through globalisation of the economy and increased competition, and this poses problems in the financing of the unemployed, loss of income in the area of wage tax and social security in the financing of pensions. I also told you, Mr Federal Minister, in committee that we are not yet above the mountain when it comes to indebtedness. We forecast a total debt of 71.3 per cent for 1997 in relation to GDP, and that is exactly two tenths of the percentage points lower than Portugal, one of the so-called Mediterranean countries, which is said to be papal, will certainly never meet the Maastricht criteria and never have the euro as a currency. Federal Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] No, he already knows, he also told me in committee that this comparison would be unfair, but figures speak a clear language, and this must also be noted by the Federal Minister of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! The question of the shadow economy has already been raised today. I share the concerns expressed by Professor Van der Bellen, who thought that if one calculates the shadow economy, then any manipulation in the area of the percentage of indebtedness and also in the percentage of re-indebtedness door and gate is open, and then, of course, one can go more or less into the Maastricht criteria. Federal Minister! I think you have tried with a hanging tongue at the 1996 and 1997 budgets to comply with the Maastricht criteria. I have not yet heard any clear statement from you regarding the discussion on the strict control of the criteria, whether you rather agree with Finance Minister Waigel, who simply says that there must be strict criteria and their compliance afterwards, or whether you support a course of a rather soft interpretation of these stability criteria. Federal Minister! It seems to me that you are now the past of the previous finance ministers who are going to get rid of the government’s misdemeanors in many areas. We have the problem of having many things in the past in the areas of social, public service and hospitals. And now the President of the Court of Auditors, Fierce, judges you that it would have been possible to save 100 billion schillings on the cost of many laws alone. Federal Minister! I believe that there should also be some consideration on the question of the euro in the future. ==References====External links== December published a very interesting article in which Wolfgang Krüger, a financier, president of the Federal Association of German People's and Raiffeisen Banks, says: If the euro comes and the hard currency countries have to pay higher interest rates, this will have a negative effect on the economy and unemployment and budget deficits will increase even more. Federal Minister! To sum up, I can only say one thing: abroad, in a comment in the "spiegel" that takes a little further account of this, the following is written about Austrian government policy and the Austrian financial policy: The Federal President is sick, the Chancellor is beaten, the government is unorientated, the Alpine Republic is politically paralyzed. - There's nothing left to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7365	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Mr President, I give the floor to you, but I must interrupt you at 3 p.m. to call for a urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7386	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too, in my contribution to debate, deal with the Budgetary Overrun Act. Over the course of this year, various measures have become effective in the implementation of the 1996 Federal Finance Act, which were not yet known in the preparation of the 1996 federal estimate. This is also the reason why overrun requests have been summarized in the various departments in the present government proposal. The excess amount is a total of around 1 106 billion schillings and consists of different positions. An essential measure – we have already heard today – is 73 percent of the total excess amount or 809 million schilling, resulting from a re-booking in connection with the post's "return year". The postal and telegraph administration became, as we know, with 1. 5. In 1996 it was distributed from the federal budget and transferred to an independent company – 100 percent owned by the federal government – to the Post und Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft and a holding company above. Because of this reconstruction per 1st. It was not possible to take due account of the deviations from the Federal Proposal on the basis of the Federal Financial Act on May of this year and of the simultaneous entry into force of the Federal Financial Act. First of all, the excess amount is covered by savings in expenditure of around 278 million Schilling – mainly in the area of allocation of demand to the countries and communities of around 90 million Schilling and in the degressive compensation of 49 million Schilling – and, secondly, by additional revenue of 814 million Schilling, which came from the postal and telegraph administration in the budget for January to April, and third by a modest withdrawal of 14 million Schilling. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Budget consolidation is a crucial prerequisite for the positive development of our country. The Federal Financial Laws 1996 and 1997 aim to reduce the re-indebtedness of the federal government from 5.3 percent of GDP in 1995 to 2.7 percent in 1997 in order to meet the Maastricht criteria on the one hand and secure the Austrian economic location on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7419	Thank you, honourable Member. I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 3 and 4 in order to call for urgent question 1603/J. I shall be interrupting the sitting for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7444	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Karl Öllingerround Comrade to the Federal Chancellor on poverty in Austria (1603/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7480	I now call upon the written question 1603/J, whose urgent treatment was required. The text of the question has been sent to all the Members of this House in the meantime. A reading is therefore not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8408	I now speak as the first questioner of this question, Mr Oellinger, and point out to him that according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be more than 20 minutes' speaking time for the statement of reasons. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8432	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If the beggar and thus poverty are to be removed from the streets by police means, then it is high time to have an urgent debate here in the House on poverty in Austria. Federal Chancellor! It is high time to allow poverty to enter this House where it has never been. We have never had a debate on poverty in Austria. It has never been the subject of detailed parliamentary treatment, here in this House, to talk about poverty in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is urgent not only because of the incident with Bettelei in Graz. This incident in Graz can happen anywhere else in Austria at any time. Ladies and gentlemen! And this also happens because many have now taken the courage to deal differently with beggars. The debate is urgent not only because yesterday was the day of human rights, because the year of the UN's poverty reduction is about to end, without Austria taking any action this year to combat poverty. The debate is urgent, too, because an EU government conference is in front of us and Austria has not raised any social policy demands in its opinion for this Intergovernmental Conference, and therefore the issue of poverty is obviously not debated on the Austrian side. The debate is urgent, however, because we currently have 50 million people at risk of poverty in Europe, and some hundreds of thousands are at home here in Austria too. The debate is urgent, however, because the government, the coalition, did not fight poverty this year, not fight unemployment, but the poor and the unemployed. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, have produced burdens that make people in this country poor. I would like to remind you of the reduction in family allowances and their non-valorization, the abolition of birth aid, the reduction in the amount of care paid and its non-valorization, the removal of family allowances for children living abroad, the radical reduction in emergency aid, the non-valorization of unemployment benefit and emergency aid, the removals in the free movement of students and home travel, the restrictions on benefits in the framework of social assistance, the tariff and price increases this year and the beginning of next year. Two examples: One concerns the cost explosion of rents and operating costs. The second example concerns a measure in the field of ÖBB when the price for the senior pension card was raised by 33 percent, from 260 S to 350 S. This may not happen to you, ladies and gentlemen, here in this House, but to people who are poor – there is enough in Austria – that is a lot of money. Each of these measures means, for people with low incomes, fighting for existence for the next few weeks, for the next few days, because it is necessary to focus on getting these shillings, which happen in addition, somewhere. What do these people have to think, ladies and gentlemen, when the Deputy Chancellor of this Federal Government explains in this situation: "I give the left stress considerations a rejection."? What do people in this country have to think when a Catholic bishop explains – it is Bishop Krenn –: "It could be" – says Krenn – "that every cry is exaggerated over growing poverty. Like anyone who needs a good harvest, if it rains and yet receives a good harvest, the social pity is sometimes a piece of politics." I know this is not the statement of the Catholic Church. God Be Thanks also to the Catholic Church, there are enough forces – more than in other organizations – to make poverty the subject of their reflections and demands. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One question: Can we imagine what poverty means for these groups in Austria? – No human in this House is affected by poverty. Nobody has to do with the problem, and I don't think your families and our families have much to do with it. That is why it is difficult to talk about this issue here in Parliament, but it is necessary. It is necessary because it has never been discussed, and it is therefore necessary because this poverty is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many topics in which we feel competent. What does it look like on the subject of poverty? . That is why we have made this debate so that this poverty can be felt here in this House, so that at least one can talk about it. Do you have any idea how deplorable it is to have to go to the Social Office for a cash benefit? - I have an idea. I have also looked at the social offices, ladies and gentlemen. I know. In most social offices there are not even seats for the customers. That's how reality looks in the social offices! Do you know how depressing it is to be driven out of an apartment? You know that? – There are only in Vienna, in the Brigittenau district, in contrast to last year – this is only a number of 1996 – where there have been 300 deloggers throughout the year, after six months 300 deloggers. And it is calculated that the number of declarations will be 400 to 500 in a district of Vienna alone. Do you know what it's like when you're logged in? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I know. [[Abg. Grossruck: Have you been logged in?]] I'll answer that. Do you know what it means for a single mother if her child is not able to attend a ski course or a country school week because the mother, the parents lack the money? But do you know what it means when the child does participate, because the mother wants to spare the child the shame of not being allowed to participate? Do you know what a burden this is for these women, these people, these parents? Do you have any idea what the school costs for poor parents despite free books and free travel? Do you have any idea what the loads are, what it means to have to live here in Austria with 7 000 S, 8 000 S or 9 000 S? - I don't quite understand your excitement. Mr President, why are you so excited about this issue? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Do you know what it means to be dependent on social assistance, on housing aid, even if you are working? Do you know what it means to look for a job for years? "Hohes house! For a long time, the public as a whole has been under the impression of the terrifying growth of unemployment. We currently have about 300,000 unemployed in Austria, more than we have ever had in the worst times. High house! It is very easy to mention such figures. It is impossible to imagine how much human suffering lies in these figures. It is impossible to imagine the risks to health and to the labour force of hundreds of thousands of adults and to health and the future of hundreds of thousands of children in these figures." Ladies and gentlemen! That is not my opinion, but Otto Bauer said that in Parliament on a urgent question on unemployment in 1930. At that time, Otto Bauer, the leader of the Social Democratic Party, referred to a number of 300,000 unemployed as terrifying for this country. I do not need to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, of what was then the consequence of this development. I quote Otto Bauer continue: "It is high time that these other questions disappeared and we focus on the one question as to how we can reduce the flood of unemployment. I am amazed at the courage of those who, for a time, have been able to take advantage of such extraordinary masses to nothing but an agitation, a deterioration and a reduction in unemployment insurance." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly where we're at. What you have just done by the Social Democratic Party in recent months has been nothing but to cause and continue this deterioration in unemployment insurance. Poverty in Austria, that is not just unemployment and its consequences, these are not just the savings packages. Poverty in Austria affects families with children very often. Poverty in Austria, which means not dying children and masseeling. Poverty in Austria is hidden, precisely because we are a rich country and because poverty in a rich country is much more deplorable than in a poor country. Ladies and gentlemen! Without the poor you now want to block away with police regulations, this Republic could not have been built after 1945, because at that time everyone in Austria was poor. Here, like elsewhere, poverty has a gender: It is the female sex that is much more affected by poverty than the male. Poverty also has an age: The old are more affected than the disciples. Poverty also has an ethnic face: It is the foreigners in this country who suffer more from poverty, even though many Austrians also suffer from it. Poverty also has a disability: It is the disabled, the caregivers who, despite the care benefits, in many cases have to live on the minimum of existence. Poverty also has a place where it takes place, namely the rural area. In the country, poverty is even greater than in the city. But poverty often also means having no roof over the head. There are ten thousand homeless, but there is no one, no official office, no government office, no state office, no local office that raises the homeless in this country at all and does something to prevent homelessness, ladies and gentlemen! Poverty has children. It is often the children's rich families or the single parents with children who are vulnerable to poverty. Poverty knows no limits either. In many cases, average income no longer protects against poverty, especially when you have many children to feed. Poverty is also inherited in this country. Those who come to the world have a much higher chance of staying poor as well. Ladies and gentlemen! But poverty also has an opposite: wealth in this country. No matter how we talk about poverty in this country, there is also little preparedness to talk about the wealth in that country. You will find in the urgent request a quote from then Minister of Finance Lacina. He says: One counts in this land every fruit tree, but the wealth in this land, which one does not grasp. There are political resistances. – At the time, the Minister for Finance of the Republic said that it was difficult to make any statements about the wealth in that country. Federal Chancellor! The worst thing, however, is that poverty remains invisible in this country because, as a member of the government, you do nothing to make poverty visible, because you do not even let the figures rise, not even provide the basis for dealing at a somewhat serious level with the issue of "Poverty in Austria". They have the responsibility to ensure that there are no figures on poverty, that there is no monitoring of poverty, and therefore no poverty policy. Neither the coalition agreement of the government parties nor the 1996 Government Declaration played a role in the issue of poverty. It doesn't even happen. Even in the previous government declarations and coalition agreements poverty was not an issue, poverty does not seem to exist for government policy and official policy in that country. Joachim Riedl writes in a comment on the Bettelsordnung in the "Economics Week" of 5. December 1996: Poverty is a social pain, an alarm that reminds the social organism that it is not invulnerable. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! If this pain is to become effective, you have to help him break through. They bear the responsibility of privatising poverty in this country to be understood as the fate of individuals who themselves bear responsibility for it. Federal Chancellor! I do not think it would make sense if you, as a government representative, did nothing about poverty and organized your wife's charity events. That's not enough. If one wants to deal seriously with the issue of "poverty", it is of little use to push it down to the donation level, no matter how honorable it is to be donated in individual cases. We demand a government responsibility towards poverty in this country. We demand a government policy to combat poverty in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I would like to give you an example – I would like to show you that, but I would first like to show it to the ladies and gentlemen in the House – what it means to be poor in this country today, because you are unemployed. [[The speaker shows the plenary a board on which the day-to-day rates of an emergency aid worker in Austria are mentioned.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It took a long time, but now he's got it!]] It is a gentleman from Vienna who was a farmer, then was a merchant and trained in the second educational path. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: colleague, so you copy me! The colleague on my tracks!]] – No problem, Mr. Haider. He worked as a management consultant, worked 20 years and is now over 50 years old. - And since 1. He is unemployed in January 1991. He started with an unemployment allowance of 384 s. In the meantime, thanks to the savings packages you, ladies and gentlemen, have decided here, he receives a daily rate of 262 S. Not only did the price increase of the following years pass him without any trace, but all life on him passed away without a trace. Not only does this man – and he is not an individual case – have no money to live in this country worthy of humaneness, he has no job, and there is obviously no one who wants to care for the responsibility of the state, the federal government towards these poor, toward the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Can you tell me how to not only survive emergency aid in this country with 262 S Dayset, but also actually get actively involved in this society? Mr Maderthaner believes that this emergency aid of 262 S should be further reduced. In an issue, Mrs Reitsamer rightly opposed him that if Madethaner proposes a reduction in emergency aid, it is a fearsome human contempt, knowing that human beings are brought under the minimum of existence. What Mrs Reitsamer did not mention is the fact that it was this federal government that had already reduced emergency aid to an unbearable minimum for many. In this context, I would like to mention all the actions that have taken place in the area of emergency aid and what you may be preparing in the next few months for possible changes in the field of unemployment insurance. Another point I am getting: cynicism with the availability of women: Women are meant to have parttime employment, to care for their children, but for this reason they are no longer entitled to unemployment benefit. That's what women are saying in this country! This is a scandal and a cynicism special! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The availability of the unemployed, which excludes the fact that women with caregivers are actually available on the labour market, has been decided here, ladies and gentlemen, in this House. They are responsible for the fact that single mothers no longer have a legal right to emergency and unemployment benefit if they have care obligations. You have to take on this responsibility. Federal Chancellor! They were the ones who were recruited during the last or last elections, family and profession must be compatible. It's nothing to notice in your practical policy. The then Social Minister Hesoun announced a minimum of existence in unemployment insurance seven years ago. – Nothing has happened! It is necessary that you go to work, that you do not speculate with poverty, that you do not continue to try to hide poverty, that you make policy for the poor, for the unemployed – and not against them. Augustine – I’ve already quoted him, a last sentence from him –: What are the other states, if they lack justice, than great robbers? – You should consider that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8544	The Federal Chancellor referred to the subject-matter of the urgent question. – Mr Bundeskanzler! You have the floor. I would point out that under the Rules of Procedure the speaking time should not be longer than 20 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8565	Thank you, Mr President. - High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies! In the introduction of your request, you quote the President of Caritas Franz Küberl, who has explained that there is a tendency to declare poverty private. I share this view of the Caritas President, this trend is real, and because it exists, it must not be accepted. If you argue that the privatisation of poverty would be a convenient political strategy to cover up the structural causes of poverty, then I claim for my party, for the Federal Government and for myself to fight poverty very well, economically and socially, and at least for me personally – even in the last days and weeks – to accept issues of distribution openly and tabulously and to discuss them openly and tabooly. They have probably read that other discussion participants in the country are not of this opinion and believe that it is all right anyway. I believe that this is not the case, and we must therefore have a debate on poverty. The theme you presented today is important. I am right to say that there is a risk of poverty also in Austria and that it must therefore be debated in depth and in depth. Two studies have to be quoted in this context: the research report of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, also quoted in your request's statement of reasons, "At risk of exclusion" and the distribution report of the Institute for Economic Research. Poverty is generally defined as the reduction of a threshold that is accepted in a society as a minimum standard of living. The problem of poverty manifests itself in all areas of life: living, working, health, education, income, social behaviour and thus the possibilities of participation in social life. As a rule, the poverty threshold is located at 50 percent of average consumption expenditure. However, I believe that it will not be enough to start a real discussion to use the definitions, indicators and global numbers, but I believe that the analysis must go deeper and deal with the threatened groups. From my point of view, these are the child-rich labour and agricultural households, where only one person is employed, the pensioner's households, which are particularly vulnerable when the household directors were auxiliary workers in their working life, trained workers, farmers or if you were in business. The analysis also shows that in the particularly vulnerable groups there are single women who have an above-average income risk. If I speak of risk, I believe that, as long as they relate to income, they are not poor, but are as vulnerable as households whose main earners become unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the analyses also show that hardly anyone at risk of poverty has a degree beyond compulsory school. It should also be noted in general that the work of both partners in families significantly reduces the risk of impoverishment. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, it should be noted that in the 1970s and 1980s, the standards of well-being and equipment in Austria improved considerably and the face of poverty changed – I emphasize: the face of poverty, not poverty itself. Two figures in this context: In 1971, 7 percent of the poor households in Vienna had a TV set and 34 percent had a telephone connection. At the end of the 1980 ’ s, 92 percent had a television and 79 percent had a telephone connection. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: In the eastern block they also have the highest connection numbers!]] – You are right, I do not say this as a threat, I say that only in order to underline my finding that the face of poverty has changed, but poverty itself has not disappeared. On the contrary: I believe that this increased or supposedly increased standard of living poses the danger of social exclusion, a much lower participation in social life, leisure, sports, culture, education, holidays et cetera. For all these reasons, the problem of political as well as humanitarian motives is not impoverished, but to take seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So what are the conclusions, ladies and gentlemen? – The study-based finding that, no matter what method is used, unemployed and persons with reduced employment and earnings are at risk of poverty is crucial for effective strategies to combat poverty. In other words, it must be combated in the first place through economic policy, labour market policy and education policy activities. The main task is to improve the overall labour market opportunities, especially in the socially disadvantaged groups. High house! In other words: If it succeeds, in reality, in our efforts to secure existing high-quality jobs and to create new jobs of high quality in order to allow more people access to sufficiently paid jobs, the most important step has been taken in the fight against the threat of material poverty. If today, in many speeches of discussion, in very demanding articles and books, it is often claimed that economic and social policy no longer has any meaning, because in the world-wide constellation of capitalism pure is decided elsewhere from the political levels, then I strongly oppose this: Economic policy, social policy, employment policy are necessary, feasible and necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not about a defensive role of politics, which in the age of the emphasis of liberalism simply ensures the best conditions for smooth market processes. That is not enough, and I therefore think that I should also like to highlight this subject briefly from another side: The neo-liberal declarations made today throughout Europe, which show that too high a wage level or a too high wage protection or too generous unemployment support are the cause of unemployment, are too short in the context of a two-digit unemployment rate in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, it is well known that the direct connex has been lost between economic growth and declining unemployment rates or, in other words, that the economic growth rates achieved are not sufficient to create more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the first conclusion must be that even in the age of globalisation – and I also refer back to the expression "globalisation trap", that is, the global networking of economic processes in times of deregulation, liberalisation an active state that admits to more open design of the labour markets is essential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, offensive economic policy is a priority for achieving the best possible level of employment; it is important and essential for income, prosperity and social stability. For this reason, Mr Oellinger, I do not think it is fair to say that the problem of poverty is ignored by government policy. In 1993, when the whole world had to struggle with a weakening of the economy, we set conscious employment policy accents. I'm referring to the housing offensive. We have newly built 40 000 to 50 000 apartments in Austria during this period, with 54 000 in the previous year. We have even taken into account the consolidation measures, the so-called savings package, which are a few words: 60-billion railway investment package, pre-emption of environmental investments, completion of major road construction projects. In this context, another comment: I am in favour of the project investment in energy efficiency, thermal insulation, building insulation and district heating, which is also represented by some Members of your group, on grounds of environmental protection and employment protection. Conclusion point 2: supplementing traditional and primarily demand-oriented employment policies through supply-oriented accents. The rate of female employment in Austria is 57 percent higher than the EU average, but below the levels of comparable countries. In Sweden, for example, it is 75 percent. This has to do with our topic today, because all the investigations suggest that the risk of poverty is greater if only one member of the family is in working life. Here – I say quite openly – there is a need for re-examination for Austria. As a way of overcoming this need for recovery, I see the service sector, which is very likely to be a growth and a future. Furthermore, we need to increase the self-employed rate. The main reasons for the relatively few companies being re-established in Austria are untimely rules, long administrative procedures, lack of access to risk capital. This autumn we started to eliminate this in the Federal Government's work programme. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The employment contract scheme!]] Conclusion point 3: Even in times of greater competitive pressure, the social contracts are to be preserved for the future in Europe. Many Europeans tend to consider American benefits to be particularly high when they hear of many newly created jobs and an official unemployment rate of only around 5 percent. Indeed, many millions of jobs have been created, but at a high price. Between the top and the bottom fifth there is the largest income gap since the start of the production of statistics. Ladies and gentlemen! Polarisation is the result of an economic pressure to accept new jobs also to much lower wages or in less popular sectors or regions. Therefore, in the so-called "job miracle" of the United States, there is a total lack of attractiveness for Europe and for our country. on the issues of savings package and social state. Mr Oellinger! Any discussion on this need to take into account the level from which it is saved. I assume that this is a well-known condition, and I would like to skip the list now, under the Rules of Procedure, but I will give you all this in writing anyway. I see the new challenges facing the social state in the following areas: family policy. It is known that Austria has an extensive and differentiated system in this regard. Direct and indirect transfers comprise around 10 percent of gross domestic product. In international comparison, with the fourth position in the OECD area, we are among the countries with the highest family support, and yet we must be very careful that there is no risk of poverty in the families. That is why I have undertaken – and we will do so – to analyse the transfers with regard to the objectives set, in order to make family policy performance available primarily to those whom they really need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The creation of further childcare facilities is also on the agenda. The distribution study by the Economic Research Institute and the poverty study clearly shows that family poverty cannot be eliminated primarily by transfers, but, above all, by employment, by jobs. And women's employment is known to depend heavily on adequate childcare facilities, and that is why this objective should be pursued further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Labour market policy: The benefits of unemployment insurance, as confirmed by the distribution report of the Economic Research Institute, have a major positive redistributive effect on the socially weaker strata. [[Abg. Oillinger: That was before the savings package!]] The main reason for this is that the probability of becoming unemployed is much greater in the lower income groups, in fact in the lower income decile ten times as high as in the upper income. Therefore: extensive, offensive activities of the AMS. I refer in the short time to my remarks on the urgent request of the previous week. But, of course, I also see it in contrast to some discussions about snow pellets and other ordered activities. That is, it is neither impoverished nor privatized. We continue to have a budget of 6 billion schilling, which will allow us to retrain and acquire new qualifications. Third priority: Education. Nearly all forecasts agree that knowledge production factor will acquire the importance of the factors of production of labour and capital if not exceeded. It is not until this week that the OECD confirmed this in an extensive work. However, reforms are also needed: University reform, as further important steps not only stand autonomy but also actually live in universities, further expansion of technical universities, reform of apprenticeship training. Even the billions of technology, ladies and gentlemen, whom we have decided, are in reality serving to secure employment or to create new jobs in our country, which is why this is also an element of poverty reduction. The study by the Ministry of Social Affairs on social exclusion clearly shows that hardly anyone from the disadvantaged population has a degree beyond compulsory school, and I conclude that we need to act even more, and above all, more specifically, for education and training. This also means that no financial barriers can be established which in any way alter access to education systems and educational paths. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I also mean the financial barrier called tuition fees. Even if arguments for this are well meant and seriously meant to reintroduce the tuition fees, no one has yet presented me with a plausible and fair alternative which I consider acceptable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! In the first place, I have said that the issue of poverty reduction is an extremely important one, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make the careful reply to your questions in writing and send them to you, even with regard to the scheduled speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8693	We shall now proceed to the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, each speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes available to the political groups at their disposal for a total speaking time of 25 minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8721	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I had hoped that at least some of the concrete questions would be answered by the Federal Chancellor. But apparently this is no longer the subject of "Poverty in Austria". It seems that neither the will nor perhaps the conditions for dealing with this issue in detail are present. Federal Chancellor! If you have in principle agreed to the Caritas President Küberl in his analysis that there is a tendency to privatise poverty, to declare private fate, then I must say to you in every way: After more than a quarter of a century of social-democratic government or government participation in this government, this finding is being used by you! Federal Chancellor! We have put this question very consciously under the motto that Caritas is currently bringing to the public, namely that 30 000 people in Austria fall below the poverty line every year. The Caritas combines this sad and embarrassing statement with a call to all: Help them – these 30,000 – get up! I would like to follow this request. I think we are invited to help these people who fall below the poverty line to get up and stand back on their own feet. Only to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, did we address this as a question. We asked you: Will you help them get up? – Actually, I must say that you have not answered the questions we have asked you in this regard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I also believe that you do not really intend to put in place the measures necessary to effectively do something against poverty. You have put the emphasis on economic policy, housing, road construction, active labour market policy and education policy in your remarks. I have to tell you that there is a lot missing, and I am missing essential points. Of course, we also need a thriving economy. But a flourishing economy on purely market conditions is absolutely no guarantee that the wealth of this economy will benefit everyone in some way! What I missed in your remarks were words like redistribution, redistribution of working time, work, but also money. I know that these are not very popular words anymore. But if you have such a flourishing economy, it is not a guarantee that poverty disappears! [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Colleagues! Distribution probably has something to do with redistribution!]] - Of course! But the distribution policy has not been deliberately addressed by the Federal Chancellor, and I have done so. Federal Chancellor! The economic sectors you have addressed are not those which are particularly labour-intensive. These are not the areas which would be suitable for themselves without other accompanying measures, such as the distribution of existing work to more people. Of course, we also need an effective education policy. But it alone is not a guarantee that the existing goods and revenues will be distributed more fairly. If we already have 10, 15, 20 applicants per open job today, this is not an individual problem of qualification or non-qualification, but then work has to be distributed differently so that more people get work and so that the existing work is not divided into an ever smaller number of employees – perhaps even with the privilege of overtime and multiple jobs. Federal Chancellor! What would be urgently necessary is first of all a better data material. They have mainly quoted from a single study, namely the study entitled "Exclusion Threatened" from 1993. Only on massive pressure and after some time was this study published. Federal Chancellor! The fact that someone has a phone or a television device doesn't make any statement at all about how poor someone is. The criteria of need-satisfaction or lack of satisfaction are quite different! Above all, the question arises: Where have the studies been since 1993? What happened in the meantime? Why don't you research? Ex Finance Minister Lacina is right when he says that there are all kinds of fruit trees in this country. But the number of poor people and also the number of super-richs is not interested, because it is politically not wanted. It's much easier to say: The police should somehow see that the problem is no longer visible. "Out of sight, out of mind!" – That seems to be the motto. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! I therefore propose two motions for resolutions on the data situation. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Chancellor! Active labour market policy. You mentioned this keyword. I am very much in favour of more active labour market policies instead of passively financing unemployment. But please also look at the activity under your Chancellorship in this area! They mentioned in their statements a figure of 6 billion schilling for active labour market policy. I'm convinced that every schilling of this is well established. But: By abolishing wealth tax, you have given the real rich more than you are now willing to give the poorest of the poor with active labour market policy! Some 8 billion schilling in the field of property tax has been lost. Austria is OECD tax ruling! It has been massively redistributed for the benefit of the rich in this country! One more thing, Mr. Federal Chancellor: A few days ago, against the vote of the Greens, the purchase of tanks was decided. There are 7.5 billion schilling for armor, for upgrade. That's 1 000 s per person, from the grandchild to the old man! Federal Chancellor! That is 1 000 s per person more than active labour market policy in one year! – How do you justify this as an Austrian politician, as a Social Democratic? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: I also believe that these dirty decision-making structures and avoiding the use of interests lead to the fact that poverty is not effectively combated. The social partners are essentially given the acquis of the possessors. By far, they don't care so much about those who have already fallen out of the system. My colleague Van der Bellen showed it today: The Chamber of Labour rejects something strictly. Mrs Hostasch will vote in favour of the car tax. And that is also true in many other areas. I would therefore like to see a much more effective representation of these interests, including the interests of the poor, of those who have already fallen out of the system. These interests belong articulated! I therefore think it is wrong to carry out this manipulation of lobbyism here in Parliament. I would like to see someone like Franz Küberl of the Caritas as a Social Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8828	Mrs Dr Petrovic has tabled two motions for resolutions which are sufficiently supported and which are included in the negotiations. Mrs Hostasch has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8855	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Petrovic! Two comments received: I believe that your perception of what has affected the statements of the Federal Chancellor was a little selective. He has very probably answered some of what you have mounted very concretely. On the other hand, I believe that even a person as competent and committed as that of the Federal Chancellor cannot be expected to give such concrete answers in such a short period of time to 40 questions which have been very comprehensively formulated here that you would not in any case be able to demonstrate that they have not been answered satisfactorily. The point made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that these answers are, of course, made available to you in written form should, as I believe, be sufficient to ensure that we have acted within the meaning of our Rules of Procedure. Her accusation thus goes empty. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would not like to put off this accusation, which may not have referred to one question or another on a very, very important issue, but rather to make some fundamental comments on it from my side. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the macroeconomic development, it is the trend towards a very neoliberal policy, it is the trend towards deregulation without creating a corresponding social fishing network, it is an immense structural change, it is also the trend towards an individualisation of our society, which together poses the danger of de-olidarization, so that in Austria too there is the danger of increasing social exclusion. Nevertheless, I would like to say with some pride that in Austria we have succeeded in dealing with these problems better than other countries through a policy that is very much in line with individual policies – I mean economic policy, social policy and education policy. It does not come from itself, therefore we should refer to what we do, but with some pride! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, however, I must admit that it is a weak comfort to be able to say that although we have been able to cope with many problems better, we have not yet been able to cope with them in the form that is our common concern. I would like to stress that there is no need to put the development in any way, but rather to face up to this challenge very offensively. I believe, however, that we must also be aware of the causes and the causes, and I believe that we must do quite decisively to ensure employment, to create employment and to prevent unemployment. Employment income, a secure income, is the basis of security against poverty. That is why an offensive employment policy must remain our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I believe that a second area also poses a threat to social weakness, namely the question of housing costs. In this area too, we are called upon to ensure that there are liquefied apartments, that young families, poorer families, have the opportunity to live with their children in sedentary apartments. I therefore consider it particularly important that we in this House will soon also resolve the uncertainty arising from the situation in the temporary lease contracts and that we also achieve legal certainty for tenants in temporary rented apartments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two other areas which are essential to me in dealing with poverty risks. I am referring to the question of equal opportunities and equal opportunities for women as well as equal access to education and training, and of course I consider youth, which is a particularly important target group. As regards employment, allow me to make a few comments because, just tomorrow and the next morning, the Federal Chancellor and other representatives of the Federal Government will be taking part in a European meeting on this subject. We know that our Federal Government is very committed to convincing other countries of the European Union that employment policy in a globalising world and a globalising economy can not only be a national concern, but also that we are required to make employment policy a central concern at European level. I would also like to express these demands to our Federal Chancellor once again, because I am convinced that we need not only to do everything nationally, but also at European level – not least at international level, when I think about WTO negotiations – to show our commitment. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address the target groups. Who is invited to make policy in this sense? – Of course it is the Federal Government, of course we are also required as politicians in the House, of course it is the countries, it is the municipalities. But it is also crucial for the private sector, which is a key part of the economy, that we have employment, that we have incomes that guarantee existence, that we have incomes that also ensure the development of their standard of living for working people. That is why, when I address the question of fair distribution, it is also a question of addressing the private sector as a whole and calling for the fulfilment of a general social responsibility to combat poverty. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On this subject I would also like to refer to an up-to-date question, because I believe that it is an example of why the trade unions are particularly demanding the collective agreement as an element of working time policy. In particular, we have the opportunity to act in a secure and employment-effective manner on the subject of working time policy. I am convinced that it is easier and better possible at industry level by means of the trade union influence – perhaps only as much as possible – to achieve distribution effects also on the working time question and thus to secure and create more people employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I address collective contract policy, of course income policy is part of it. And if the social partners here are critically questioned about the efficiency of their social services, I would ask you, Mrs Petrovic, to distinguish between the social partners. There are two partners: one on the employer's side and one on the employee's side, and the two have different objectives, especially in income policy. I would like you to question the employer's side with the same vehemence as the employee's side, for example, why it wants to shift wage policy to the operational level, why it does not negotiate the trade collective agreement, and why it wants to continue to pursue performance-related components, but not solidarity-based wage policy with us. This is the right target group for your criticism, not the employee side! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why do you make a common cause? Then why did you jointly decide on the savings package? What about emergency aid?]] [[Abg. Wabl: What about the asset tax?]] Mrs Petrovic! The fact that we were able to create a lot for the lower incomes in particular proves that we have recently also had a minimum wage rate for social services, with 1. ==References====External links== This is where special insurance was needed, because the incomes of the employees there have been particularly low. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would be pleased if, on the part of the Greens, the efforts to achieve such an important common concern would not be exhausted in requests and demands for reports, but would be included in a common catalogue, as we can combat this exclusion, in a common offensive programme to achieve this objective. [[Abg. Dr Petrovic: We are not with the social partners!]] Then our society would be even more just than it is at present!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8958	Mrs Horngacher spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8982	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Oellinger was out here earlier and said: You know, you know, you know...! Mr Oellinger! We know about the states in our country. I was a family helper, and for several years I served mainly in the barracks settlement on the outskirts of Innsbruck. I know what poverty is! At the beginning of your question, you will find that Austria has not yet made any efforts to deal with poverty in Austria. I can tell you, however, that we are aware of the situation of the Austrian People's Party and we are very likely to accept the problems of the weakest social groups in our country: whether it be in the family area, where we strive to ensure better security and care, especially for the children's-rich families, whether it be in the area of the economy where we are seeking a forward-looking, modern economic policy, because only a functioning economy secures jobs and brings the money for social services! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is not to be overlooked that in Austria we are increasingly faced with the problem of poverty and that income shears are increasingly dispersing, also due to the system of percentage income increases. I mean, it's time to decide nominal increases. I do not understand the trade union leaders who repeatedly demand percentage increases. Social peace cannot be safeguarded for the long term if income shears continue to break up from year to year. I am for performance, and I stand for performance, but of course it is difficult to understand when a carpenter who makes a hard and creative work goes home with about 12 000 S to 14 000 S per month, while another earns the x-fold of it. The carpenter won't see why the other one deserves so much more. As far as retirement insurance is concerned, we are well aware that it is especially difficult for a farmer and a farmer who, as a couple, only 6 400 s – that is the average pension of last year – to see why they no longer get a full life of hard work. Finally, it should be noted that in agriculture a family worker still deserves a third less than a skilled worker. There must also be a rethinking, because that also means poverty today, especially in mining plants. [[Abg. Aumayr: Which party is the Minister of Agriculture?- Oh, my God!]] [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals as well as calls to the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party has been very committed to child-rich families in particular in the family sector. In Austria, there is still a very high level of family benefits compared to other countries. The next tax reform, however, is intended to ensure that families with three and more children are taxed. Children's-rich families are important to society! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Children already learn social behavior and performance in the family. In children's-rich families, however, only one partner can usually be employed. Therefore, family aid is a central element of family policy and is often the most important source of income for mothers. The aim is, therefore, to ensure the minimum tax-free living per member of the family by various measures. Hidden and ashamed poverty is enough in Austria. I think it is our task to pay particular attention to those who are too ashamed to make their emergency public. [[Abg. Aumayr: You represent the Minister of Family Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture!]] It was also mentioned here about inherited poverty. There is also that. This often depends on the level of education, but often also on the problem of debt. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of debt has another facet. I would like to make an appeal here to banks, department stores and so on, so that there is no such aggressive advertising! There are people who cannot stand up to such advertising. However, the ÖVP with the Minister of Family Bartenstein is also very much committed to improving the situation of the families. [[Abg. Aumayr: The savings package has shown it!]] We have many very positive facilities that could be maintained despite savings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Aumayr! I have heard few proposals from you where you could really save so much, so that no one hurts! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We still have the time for leave with the job guarantee, which is longer than any other country. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] We have the age rate for family allowances, the apprenticeship and school leave and the calculation of the age of child rearing on the pension, which I consider to be particularly important for the latter, because for the first time child education has been recognized as a service to society. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] However, there is a worrying situation regarding the pensions of women. Workers have an average pension of only 6 700 s, farmers one of only 3 600 s, although I must say that it was a milestone that we could even introduce the pension for farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This pension does not experience a farmer!]] That is, of course, to improve. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It is not to be seen that women who are devoted to the family are now to fall through the social network, raising children and running the household. There is certainly still a need for action. There must be an end to discrimination against housewives and mothers vis-à-vis the woman who is out of work. We need to create framework conditions to enable women to return to work and guarantee them a right to their own pension in the event of divorce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But the poverty of single mothers is often also the result of the responsibilitylessness of the fathers concerned – one must also say that! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She's right!]] We from the Austrian People's Party are very aware of the problems and know that the next few years must be marked by finding fair solutions. However, let us not forget that we are generally at a very high social level – and want to stay there too. To secure this is our task!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9171	Mrs Haller's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9192	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! – Mr Bundeskanzler, it is no longer possible to hide that the former social paradise of Austria is in a social crisis. 1.5 million Austrians are under acute threat of poverty, half of which have to cope with income below the poverty line. Recently, public debate on this issue has also increased. But it is not true that there was no debate on this at parliamentary level. At least we liberals have been working in this area since 1991. At that time we started a series of questions to the then Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun, the... – No, no! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Sozialschmarotzer!]] On the increasing poverty, Mrs Colleague. And Social Minister Hesoun then offered us studies and studies, which have also come with a certain delay of time. If the Federal Chancellor has spoken of two studies today, I must say that there have been three studies. He did not mention the Wolf Steiner study, which was also commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Probably didn't like the result. It has also been kept secret before the 1994 elections. You, Mr Bundeskanzler – and you are the head of this government – have not, above all, drawn any consequences from these studies, and you have simply continued the wrong Austrian social policy and the wrong path of Austrian family policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My predecessor, Mrs. Katharina Horngacher, has come to the farmers today, and I must say: This Austrian conference on poverty last autumn also showed that exactly 30 percent of Austrian farmers are particularly at risk or affected by poverty. And on the other hand, we liberals have done something: We have tabled a request here in the House – my colleague, Aumayr, was that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do your applications do? - Nothing!]] So I ask you to remember and not act as if we had done nothing about this. It is a fact that 1.5 million Austrians have to live with a per capita income of less than 6 000 s, with the average of 15 000 s. The study by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the risk of poverty says that under the poverty threshold, half of all households with two adults and two children and more than 60 percent of all households with two adults and three children are already at risk and that single earnings and single parents are particularly vulnerable. I really wonder, Mr Bundeskanzler, why in Austria – although you have known that – you have chained load packages, which are particularly strong in the social weak. – I really have to ask myself that. Mr President, Mr Fischer, who is now the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In April, on the presentation of the documentation "Poverty in Austria", poverty has to be discussed again and again. - Yes, please, you're in the government! Thematicizing alone, however, is really not enough! The government has not yet acted or responded! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The arch of misdevelopments in Austria is really big – as far as this is concerned, I have to give the Greens the right: It ranges from tax discrimination against single earners to too little and too expensive housing, a disastrous real income situation, increasing unemployment, rigid labour and working time laws to a lack of equivalent promotion of the various types of childcare and a general anti-family tax law. Federal Chancellor! If you now – and you have done it again today – as the only recipe, on the other hand, you feel that social staggering of family payments is correct, then I must say: You have so far really refused a discussion on real and consistent family policy. Why, then, is it necessary for the Constitutional Court in Austria to review again and again for reasons of tax justice? Why are the more or less meaningful and the more or less generous state grants you always praise, Mr. Federal Chancellor, more of the random principle than a planned consideration? - That's it! I say to you that is because Austrian politics is simply afraid to confess color! That is the development and the consequence of this government structure! Of course I do not take the ÖVP out of my accusations! Why is there not yet a fundamental law catalogue in Austria on the value of the family? – The family ministry has been in ÖVP hand for ten years! So far, why has the social system not been established constitutionally, whether it can be financed with financial contributions in Austria or whether the generation agreement and therefore children are important to the Austrian state? Family policy, ladies and gentlemen, cannot limit itself to politically motivated alms distribution or politically motivated sugar distribution, as has been the case in Austria so far, because we would have had enough money for better action in recent years. We liberals have long committed themselves to upgrading families, making family policy a key issue and giving targeted individual family benefits – instead of the former principle of casting pots. We think it is really necessary – and this is what our programme says – that increasing social poverty must be addressed in particular to families and that the important benefits of families – that of social interest – must finally be taken more into account. I would like to refer here again to the model of child care check, which would also be a possibility to better meet Mrs Steibl, the poverty of women, precisely because then there would be money for the contributions of pension insurance. We liberals have long been a just system in the tax field. Our family tax division includes, Mr Bundeskanzler, a social staggering, because all family transfers, family benefits of a monetary nature must be included in the calculation basis. This cheap counter-argument – the only one that is always brought against this tax division – is simply not true. No one would be forced to do so; we liberals have always opted for an optional use. But you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and both government parties are more important than a logical, consistent policy. I think it is really a strong piece, not only that Austrian politics simply ignores the 1991 Constitutional Court's knowledge in this regard, but that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are now trying to undermine even the expected new knowledge. I feel like I'm trying to find out You can simply bend the Austrian Constitutional Arch, as you want it to be. It really is not about promoting wealthy people, but simply about tax justice, Mr Bundeskanzler. If you do not want to do so, you have misunderstood the Austrian tax system – or you want to misunderstand it. I too am in favour of a catalogue of measures against increasing poverty. However, this must not be done with the class-warring tones of the Greens. That's not the right way. And if you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tried today not to stand here as a grievance chancellor – I am already at the end – but have acted as if you were really concerned about the increasing poverty of the population, then I really must ask you not to present here again a list of wishes instead of a questioning answer, a letter to the Christian child, and that your policy is more logical than ideological considerations in the future. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And above all one, Mr. Federal Chancellor...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9260	Was that serious that this is already the conclusion?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9275	Yes, that's the end. That's all a sentence. I really find it very worrying when a German chancellor tries to make the Austrian constitutional guardians mouth dead.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9308	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9330	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This analysis of the Federal Chancellor was marked by appropriate openness. I would like to expressly hold this at the beginning of my remarks. However, this would have a much more positive side if the Federal Chancellor had not been in his office for many years, because the therapeutic approach was the weakness of his statements. In the analysis, many agree. Across the political groups, knowledge of statistical data is hardly able to do anything else than take note of the findings without dizzying glasses. That is, I think, not so much the problem. But the problem is – and in part I agree with my previous speakers –: The reform policy of the Federal Government is not being implemented. Although it makes policy, which it itself calls a reform policy, in reality the reforms remain. Finally, it remains with the declarations of intent based on relatively common knowledge. The historical approach is gratifying. The approach to the future is not hopeful. That is why it is particularly regrettable, because at the same time it makes an element in the debate which I would like to mark as the mutual allocation of debt and cause. And what hurts me particularly from a liberal point of view is that, in this context, liberals are often agreed on the right to represent real concerns. That is why I would like to say quite unmistakably today that, from our point of view, from the point of view of the Liberal Forum, it is an essential task of policy to take care of and create framework conditions, which are, in the actual sense of the word – which, however – and this is an essential addition from our point of view – are primarily aimed at enabling people to be able to free themselves from poverty. But that's not as cynical as some of us imagine that we would almost be taking this as a big attempt, in which we watch without fail, whether people are able to free themselves from poverty, and if they fail, we may say: a pity! At the same time, we believe that society has guarantees that someone in this existential situation will not perish until he has freed himself from poverty. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And that's always going to be a walk! I would like to expressly say this here. For who determines the measure in such a philosophy? Who, in the end, defines what is re-alarming that is dangerous to existence, which is poverty that is not reasonable but can still be lived? Is that the statistics? Is it the numbers we've heard today? The last decile, the highest decile – these are aid sizes so that one can better recognize reality, but they are not decisive for the real situation. Today, poverty – we have heard it today, and I would like to expressly agree with it – has a different face than it did 20 years ago. Today, a telephonic connection – I would like to expressly agree with the Federal Chancellor – is not a parameter for wealth or non-poverty. 20 years ago it was perhaps even more correlated – and 40 years ago at all! The question is therefore: With what upright course and with what human dignity can a person move in society? I therefore believe that, as we Liberals should represent holistic approaches, on the social issue, we should call for both-and-all and not just formulate a letter to the Christian child, but at the same time try to provide approaches, as it is possible that increased productivity does not fall back on us as a negative element, because increasing productivity at the same time means less demand for work in a growth-based sense. I think it is simply unfair and unfair to assume that we are doing so because we are demanding higher economic efficiency on the back of the unemployed. Now I consciously refer to the statements of the Federal Chancellor, who took the word "globalization" into his mouth: Globalisation is a phenomenon that is actually challenging in the very sense of the word state action – but not state action exclusively at the national level, but that is an international challenge. If, for example, we cannot harmonise tax law internationally, and this is not as fast as possible, then the flows of capital will not behave as we would like from the point of view of the Republic of Austria. Then the international capital markets will not conform to our requirements that we would need for our social and economic policy, but to the optimization of their possibilities in any niche. That is why the question of harmonizing tax systems is a highly political issue which may be unsatisfactory for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany because he cannot solve it here in Austria alone, in our own types of Schreberg. Among other things, we have joined the EU to bring in innovations and to bring about harmonisation so that we can play out our strengths and are not constantly driven floating financial markets. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If I do this in a debate on a question which deals with poverty, and ultimately talk about wealth if you want to, I would like to make you aware: If we do not consider this holistic, we will not convince the richness that it makes sense for him to take care of poverty. That won't happen. Society is per se not an altruist. While there is evidence of each other, this evidence needs appropriate framework so that it can be lived. And it needs adequate social intelligence for all participants in society. This is not a question of charity alone. I have no objection to the approach of charity, but building politics on charity would be a self-faller. It is about making this mutual sense of people clearer, defining framework conditions and promoting social intelligence. In this sense, education policy is called for twice: on the one hand, as an element of qualification, which is an essential element in the possibility of freeing oneself from poverty, and on the other hand as an element of increased social intelligence in living together. But this second side, for example, is completely lacking in our school life, and the first one is in need. The qualification side is in need, and the second side is completely lacking. It depends on the happiness and chance of the individual teacher; it is not system-immanent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For example, if we have worked out a transfer model from the Liberal Forum to avoid child poverty as a project, a model that guarantees that there can be no child in our society, which is not sufficiently secured in its existence, and if the only answer comes back from the conservative side, that this is the wrong family policy, although we say again and again, it is a question of showing once in the example of a child that it is possible to redeem the promise not to let anyone down, then it simply makes me sad because I am my, poverty is not only a co-human, but also an economic phenomenon. For example, if those who cannot follow these arguments do not notice that they destroy their own markets if they destroy the mass purchasing power of those who are becoming increasingly poorer, then they are socially and in the very sense unintelligent. I think it is important to remember this approach, because only with the Sunday speech, only with the preaching and only with charity will we not be able to solve this problem. We will only be able to solve this problem if we put the interrelationship seriously at the centre, but not then, if something does not work, the debt is always just looking for the other ones. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9423	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9444	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Whether social democracy really took note of the new phenomenon of poverty, I am not so sure yet. Why am I not so sure yet? – There is agreement in various aspects of the diagnosis that certain groups are particularly affected: single women – they have already been mentioned –, certain pensioners’ households and so on. But traditional emphasis, let us say, the "overbuilding policy" of the Social Democrats – whether this is reflected in reality is always another question – the ideology of social democracy is something else, namely the fight against a too great inequality of income and wealth. In any event, inequality policy or the fight against inequality in an economy and society tends to be quite different from the fight against poverty. Fighting inequality means you're taking away someone above, but if that comes down there, that's a completely different question. We could theoretically finance the tank purchases you have now agreed to, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, in the amount of 8 billion schilling, of course, through a premium on the higher incomes. Then we would have 8 billion in addition, but poverty reduction is not, of course, one. This has not yet been achieved. I have taken the papers with interest that a number of members of social democracy – and indeed rather in the province – have made proposals in recent times to increase the tax rate on income tax so as to ensure that a so-called "solidar contribution" or "solidar surcharge" is introduced and so on. – You can discuss that, but personally I think that – so isolatedly considered – is a problem for growth policy. But apart from that, it is at best classical inequality policy or fight against inequality. It has nothing to do with poverty reduction. I could build up cases where there is a contradiction between the traditional policy of inequality and a policy of targeted combating the risk of poverty. Apart from: If you really wanted to pursue a tax policy in this direction, you would have had enough time. I'm just saying, you know, you know, I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm Look It is the Swiss tax system. This must, from a social democratic point of view, be a lightly model. There, income taxation is 30 percent higher than in Austria, always in relation to the social product, and wealth taxation is four times as high as in Austria. Federal Chancellor! – May I say on this occasion how unpleasant it is for me to address the Federal Chancellor and have him in my back. The seat or standing order in this house is really unfit. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We could go to the Reichsratshall! Then stand behind him!]] Maybe it's better there. Federal Chancellor! They have correctly diagnosed the high risk of poverty if both partners are not employed in a marriage or a community of life. They have correctly diagnosed that the risk of poverty increases if the risk of unemployment increases. This means that these two things are strongly correlated, and unemployment and thus poverty are, in turn, very much correlated with schooling. – I do not know if we have already drawn the consequences from this knowledge that I think is correct. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If this diagnosis is correct, then it is against household taxation or family division, even if you leave the freedom of choice open. As a result of this consideration, it can only be said that all means must be used to prevent women from coming back to the herd, even if they have their own decision. That's a decision they could regret later. It should also be taken into account that if poverty occurs – and politics will not always be able to prevent it from entering – it should only be transitory. On this point, I agree with Mr Kier, if I have understood him correctly. The Federal Chancellor said that the classical instruments are important: economic policy, labour market policy, education policy instruments. He also said that Austria should continue to try to create high-quality jobs, which is the most material step. Federal Chancellor! It is certainly a materially important step. It is necessary and proper to use these classic instruments of labour market policy, but that will not be enough. It's not enough now. They will still not be able to prevent all Austrian diploma engineers from becoming engineers and thus occupying these high-quality jobs. We will still have a certain percentage which, due to sociological, social, perhaps other causes, does not create this kind of education and, in so far, has a start-up disadvantage in working life from the home, which cannot be compensated for by these classic measures. Apart from the fact that gender discrimination remains, age-specific discrimination, ethnic discrimination, and the question remains whether rural poverty or inherited poverty can be overcome in this way. Just a short while ago, because the Federal Chancellor mentioned this. This is just a small problem, but from the fiscal point of view, it is not a small problem. Federal Chancellor! It is true that, for years, 30 to 40 billion shillings, depending on how you expect, we are in the housing sector, but little of them comes to the people who need it. This is precisely the phenomenon that this is enormously expensive and, in fact, is a financing of the upper middle class. Summary: Federal Chancellor! The use of classical economic instruments – what you have said – is necessary. It will continue to be necessary, but it is not sufficient for the fight against poverty. Unfortunately, this has already been demonstrated, and this will unfortunately be shown in the future. The new phenomena of poverty or, if you want, the phenomena of new poverty are at best strangled by these classic policy instruments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9489	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9510	Mr President. High house! What bothers me is a little the way in which this discussion is being conducted. The Greens, for example, are 770 000 to 1.5 million people living below the poverty line, with the liberals being 1.5 million. The hundreds of thousands are just being thrown around the area. – This is the danger of losing human relation to human destiny in the face of loud statistics and figures. That's something we should remember more. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have also been difficult in the debate for a long time – everyone together – to define what poverty is at all to set criteria for it. We know the various studies and see how difficult it is to make that clear at all. It has been said that poverty today looks different than it used to be. – You can see it differently. You can say: Poverty in Europe is partly different from poverty in various Asian or African countries. I therefore believe that the crucial question is: How does a society deal with these phenomena? What social, human sensitivity can it develop? And: Is it ready to introduce into its policy the criterion of distribution justice and the fight against poverty, against the privatisation of poverty – whatever it may be –? That is the crucial question! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, if you already want to use this term, although it is very imprecise, and although I have tried before to define it differently, to find another access, there is always a discussion about the fair distribution of wealth. That is the crucial question! I was quite starved when I heard from Vice-Chancellor Schüssel that he was not for redistribution, but for performance. What strange contrast is that? One can be for distribution justice and yet also for performance, and it can even be a power incentive. – This is an access to this question, which is obscene to me and with which I really cannot start much. I also have problems with Bishop Krenn, who called the "social pity" a "piece of politics"; it has already been quoted. His boss is not of this world, and his performance assessment will take place in the beyond, but it would also be a good advice for the Church to conduct a discussion process in its ranks, because there can be some very controversial debates about distribution justice and how to deal with it, for example in countries of the third world, the word "theology of liberation" and so on. I want to say: It is about the issue of distribution. This is a legitimate question and, of course, we must also take into account the situation in which a country is located. If one has to fight for location security, also a discussion about wage costs, additional wage costs and all these things, then it is not because one has to fight internationally against a competition, which is only about which country pays the lowest wages so that one can secure its industrial sites there. That's what happens. The Federal Chancellor calls for this in each of his European appearances, coupled with employment policy programmes and initiatives, so that at this level – monetary union, keyword euro, keyword: Discussion on the future economic organisation in Europe – not all of this is misused in order to make neoliberal economic concepts break through. In this context one hears again and again: What are you up to? The reasons for unemployment are too high wages, unemployment benefits, the most important reason for public debt is the expatriate social state. We usually hear that from you, and the only goal is ultimately to maintain the money value. [[to the liberals]] [[Abg. Aumayr: What does your colleague Lafontaine say?]] There was the dispute between Helmut Schmidt and Mr. Zeitmayr from the Deutsche Bundesbank – we can't really care because the Schilling and the D-Mark are closely interconnected – a somewhat more exemplary: It can't be that it comes out: To secure money before employment and that with any sanctions mechanisms. Here again, the crucial question, including national governments, for societies, for socially sensitive societies: In what direction does the European path lead? This is important to know when a distribution debate is being held in Austria, not only a European distribution discussion, but also when, in Austria, this distribution discussion is held with a view to securing the location, the economic location of Austria. That is a very crucial question in this context. Against this background, we can then make concrete considerations, and in the final effect we can ask the question: What are the distribution effects of the tax system, does the tax system have, where can we correct primary income and ultimately influence its effects? Can we do this on the expenditure page? - Yes, we can. Do we do this on the expenditure page? – Yes, we try that, partly with success, but maybe you could still improve it there and there. An example just: If the service providers contribute to social security at a lower percentage of their income than the poorer households, this is an area that needs to be considered. That's how I could put a number of points. I therefore believe that it is right to have this debate really serious.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9563	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9584	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! One can address poverty, the problem of poverty from different positions and ways of thinking. We can consider poverty from international reports, from statistics, for example from the OECD report, which is one of the richest countries in the world. One can put poverty in relation to other countries, to countries that are richer than we are, to countries that are poorer than we are. We can compare poverty by using different professional, income and population groups in Austria. It can be done as the Greens have done with a urgent request, namely to put a statistical matrix on Austria and interpret the statistics and, depending on the ideological point of view, make debt allocations. Or one can also address the problem of poverty from a different point of view, namely to view and evaluate poverty as it actually does. Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty is not a statistical result, poverty does not scream. Poverty is quiet. It's quiet. It's stupid. Poverty is often anonymous and statistically not tangible. Poverty is ashamed, it is individual and meets individual and non-anonymous groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty can be indebted, but poverty can also be indebted, with no assessment of the degree of debt or even the criterion of debt as regards aid. Poverty can be a system condition. But poverty is also an up-and-coming stay of those who no longer come along with this speediness, in this frenzy of life. Poverty is also a result of social security or the fairness of objectives. But poverty is also a awakening of false ideas and paradises among consumers. In this context, I would like to create the wrong advice and also the financial policy of some banks, according to the motto "Anna, the credit ham ́ ma." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know what I mean: There were people suddenly in debt, but thanks be to God last year or two years the private bankruptcy proceedings were decided, so there is also a rescue anchor. Ladies and gentlemen! Here it was claimed that Mr and Mrs Öster left this issue cold. – I have to tell you: That's not true. I would also like to tell you from the point of view of a local politician, a mayor, Mr Ollinger, what is being done outside the communities against poverty. There we are confronted daily with the fates of the poorest. But we're ready there to do something to help. This is why I was so excited when you spoke here, Mr Oellinger, because you are pretending to be the only one here who is concerned with poverty, which is the social one. . I say that the majority of Members here believe that the majority of Members are probably very willing to do a lot to help, and perhaps have done more in the past than you have said here outside of yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Why don't you talk about it?]] . I am now speaking about it, Mr Ollinger. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Every social debate is about it!]] I should like to stress here the high sensitivity of the citizens in the communities, but also the representatives of the local authorities, regardless of the couleur. Poverty is combated where it becomes visible, where it is recognizable, where it is fought where it is transparent. And poverty is being fought where there are terrible single-sicks. There is a lot of help being done in individual ways. In this context, for example, I recall the social funds in the communities, and so some mayors here could certainly list a number of measures as proof that in rural areas poverty is not fought with beautiful words, not with speech, but with actions. So it's not like you said this, Mr Oellinger. For example, I only recall the social assistance organisations providing emergency aid, the elderly, social actions in the municipalities, fuel actions, study aid actions, housing aid, rental aid, direct and indirect aid to house builders. Ladies and gentlemen! The principle of neighbourhood assistance is also a way of combating poverty, and above all the voluntary use of our many officials who work in the associations, organizations and bodies – whether this is the Red Cross, the Catholic Church, the Caritas or other private initiatives, or whether it is the ORF as a public-law institution with its action "Light in the dark", which provides excellent in the areas of poverty reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I would like to record a broad spectrum, so to speak, of the whole range, and I am not working in black and white painting, Mr Oillinger. Poverty is a concern not only of Parliament but of Austria as a whole. And that must be the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only the following, Mr Ollinger, should we do the following: We should be fair in the assessment. In your request, on page two of this paper, you criticize this measure in Graz. – That’s exactly what many hold back, perhaps to see things more objectively when it comes to abuses. If it is true, as we have heard from the reports by radio, television and the press, that beggars from Croatia and Slovenia are so to speak, to beg in Graz, so that they can then be transported down in the evening, this is a misuse. This has nothing to do with social poverty in Austria! This abuse is stopped! If these reports are true, then the municipal council of Graz has decided correctly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also about support measures in the context of poverty. As long as we do not come to a fair promotion and a just definition of the word "income", that is to say, an income limit under which everything and beyond what there is nothing, we also produce poverty. We need to be fair in assessing and assessing incomes, and it is also necessary to include the loads of the individual in this income assessment. Then we can imagine whether someone is really poor, whether he has little income – or whether he compensates for his income with public support, unlike someone who deserves more. These are measures to be taken. Mr. Ollinger! I also like that you have suddenly become a family-Paul from a family-saulus. If you look at your statements recently on the subject of family life, you really cannot say that you are concerned about intact families. You have found malaise everywhere, you have said that the healing family did not exist in Austria. – I say to you: This is the majority of families! This group belongs to support, and exactly these families – you write it – are below the poverty line. By means of a fair assessment of family income, also here in Parliament, help families below the poverty line with a weighted per capita income, with a corresponding total income. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must try to increase the effectiveness of social legislation and the safety of individual promotion directives so that poverty is not produced but combated by this title. In any case, the Austrian People's Party will do everything and fight for poverty to be resisted in the sense I have now explained and fought on a broad basis in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9700	The next speaker is Mrs Motter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9721	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck, we can look at poverty from a number of points of view. You can, of course, view them as the mayor of a community where social institutions and neighborhood assistance may still work. I would now like to look at poverty from a female point of view, and I say: The poverty in Austria is female! Mr Grossruck! I mean, poverty, which you see, is not being fought here. They said that wherever you see poverty, everything will be done. I claim: Poverty is female! We all know where poverty is among women, and therefore a few facts. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the labour market service, the number of female unemployed increases by a quarter by 1999. Furthermore, in 1995 there were 141 300 minor employees, 102 000 of whom were women. This means that the proportion of women is 72 percent. The proportion of women in the other employment relationships is 7.9%, while men account for only 2.5%. Workers even follow 14.6 percent of a minor employment rate. The number of minor jobs without social security is exploding. It rose by 20 percent within one year. Furthermore, the problem of social security has been heightened by the trade agreement system, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, have just recently decided. We know that it is precisely the work of the woman who secures independence and guarantees social security. The employment rate among Austrian women is a significantly lower average, and at the moment, unfortunately, it is still declining. We have a 61 percent share in Austria, while the OECD average is at least 75 percent of the female employment rate. The return to economic life after the so-called child break is becoming increasingly difficult and means a qualitative and financial decline for most women. Therefore, around 30 percent of all women who have interrupted their employment are hardly given a job on the labour market. Another additional difficulty is the short notice period on re-entry. The fact is that women in the labour market are more disadvantaged because they have on average a worse education and training. This comparatively lower education of women also has a serious impact on their careers. However, the level of education not only affects unemployment, but also increases and incomes in the profession. Even in the case of high schooling and in the case of equal work, women in the occupational hierarchy are classified significantly lower and paid as men. Many more women than men have a job that is not adequate for their training or cannot use their training for higher-quality or leadership jobs. Women still have to have a significantly higher level of education in order to get the same salary as their male colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! In pension insurance, too, low wages and low periods of insurance due to family care also lead to low self-employed pensions. This results in almost half of the lower age pensions. At the end of 1994, the age pension was on average for men 14 185 S, but for women only 8 014 S. The fact is that more than 70 per cent of the compensation beneficiaries are women. Women who have relied on marriage as "social security" also increasingly fall into a poverty trap, and especially meets single parents. The fact is that in Austria every fifth family consists of only one parent. Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent question gives us the opportunity to make proposals. I have also noted, Federal Chancellor, that you have taken very good proposals to improve the situation of women. Only: We can't wait a long time. We need to do something, and that as soon as possible. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that women should be safeguarded by social law, including in the event of minor employment, such as the mother-in-law. Finally, the necessary framework conditions for women must be created to facilitate employment, such as the lack of childcare facilities. This is a wish which many women here in the House are constantly articulated, but unfortunately nothing happens! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, initiatives in the field of education must also be put in place so that women not only reach compulsory school as the highest level of education. Women who have spent their lives doing unpaid work, such as housework, are almost always mediocre at age. That is why, from our point of view, an insurance obligation is a fundamental condition for the non-working woman. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are all called upon to do something to combat female poverty in this country. I hope that this debate, initiated today by the urgent question of the Greens, will not go unheard of. I hope that all the good proposals that have been made by colleagues today will finally be discussed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9811	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9833	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! In contrast to my previous speaker, I regret that today, in the form of a urgent request, we are discussing this socially serious problem, because we are, of course, in a given time corset and, in fact, each of us can only show some details. I believe that in Austria we are not dealing with the issue of absolute poverty, but with the minimum standard of living that is defined as relative poverty. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What is a rich society that we are undoubtedly willing to recognize as poverty in Austria? Is it a person who had an income of 37,000 s... – Listen [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You forget the high budget deficit, the government debt!]] Before you call anything in there! Is "poor" someone who has earned 37 000 S when he was in employment, but because of unemployment now only covers more than one third of this income? Or is it the chord worker who gets eight hours on the chord band every day through full-time work? Without a doubt, the question of poverty cannot be defined by a certain size of income, because poverty and the question of poverty are related to many other peripheral problems, such as payment obligations, indebtedness, access to education and others. Mr. Oellinger has today based on a few "know how?"- Questions are trying to exemplify some examples. I'd say poverty has a lot of faces. Mr Kier did not mention it today, but one of the ideas of the Liberal Forum is the basic income discussion, but the Greens have the idea of a basic pension. Both models show that they can't protect themselves from poverty, so they're not poverty-avoiding. The fight against poverty can only be done from the point of view that poverty has many faces. It therefore also requires many measures, many different measures. I am thinking of the whole complex of equal treatment, for which there are very different approaches here in the House. I am thinking of the question of safeguarding atypical or precarious working conditions, Mr President, as you mentioned in your question. And I say again: The work contracts were a first step towards that, and I very much regret that the Greens had a different attitude. We are at least giving impetus to childcare in the form that, together with the EU funds, we can provide a billion shilling for it. By the way – unfortunately, Mrs Petrovic is not in the hall: I regret that care obligations are no longer an obstacle to mediation, as do Mrs Petrovic, but it is not the political will-building of this House, but it was an administrative court ruling that followed. [[Abg. Oillinger: Availability is a will-building of this house!]] But not in this particular case. I am also thinking of measures to combat violence, which also has to do with poverty, measures which we have just dealt with in this House recently. I am thinking of the discussion on the study by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, Konrad, which yesterday presented various models of pensions. I also think that there will be an increasing need to discuss how to make marketable work marketable in the future. Finally, because the order of the Graz municipal council has been addressed here: I don't take this easy. I don't know if I, if I were sitting there, would be among those SPÖ delegates who then voted for it or voted against it after a long discussion. We fight child poverty internationally, and child labour is also child labour! That is why we also need to fight these in some form. As I said, The SPÖ has always been committed to combating poverty. We know that unemployment is the overcrowding of poverty. That is why it is for us the first and most urgent measure to combat unemployment. For this, we are committed to social democrats!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9883	Mrs Madl has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9905	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Mrs Hostasch said literally: Our objective must be offensive employment policy. – The SPÖ already has this goal ten years ahead, but it does not approach this goal at all. On the contrary, it is even away from this goal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, we have more unemployed today than we did ten years ago, although the Federal Chancellor is planning offensives again today – this is what I hear for the third time this year! – to secure jobs and employment. This seems to me like a dog who always hangs a bone in front of him and mimics it, but then acts kindly at the crack sausage and only occasionally returns to the bone so that he fulfills his right as a dog. That's the same thing that happens to me! [[Abg. Silhavy: Who's the dog, Mrs. Colleague?]] This is the position of the SPÖ, for which it stands here again and again, but unfortunately God's these are always only lip confessions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the form of Mrs Horngacher, the ÖVP here calls for the Minister of the Family, the Minister of Agriculture, but forgets that this Minister belongs to her group. Yes, what is against these maladministrations, which it has shown, and to meet these demands, when the ministry concerned has been representing its own political line for decades? Or: In the form of Mr Grossruck, the ÖVP calls for the assessment of a fair family income. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs Colleagues! To define mothers as self-employed is more poverty-reducing – is it?]] Yes, Mr Großruck, you are asking! The fight of the ÖVP, as you have said, for the families in Upper Austria looks so like you did not agree to the childcare check in the country, for example, but your head of state of Upper Austria, to whom you are very subject, called for this family care check medial on the same day. Or: Family split. You did not agree to this either, that is not a matter at all for you. They only demand the assessment of a fair family income. That's a double-bedded thing! You talk differently here than you actually represent it outside. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You speak differently here at the speaker's desk than you actually vote in the committees! For you, family policy is only a policy that you are making here at the speaker's desk, but nowhere else, Mr Colleague, anywhere else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today we have heard a lot about statistics and data. It is undisputed that there is a galloping poverty in Austria. I wonder one thing: It has today been called several times as the cause of this progressive poverty. But there are parties, especially I mean the Greens who voted against the savings package, and today they call the savings package a primary cause. My opinion on this: The primary cause of the savings package was the inability of the coalition government to deal with economic and labour market issues over the last ten years. These are the real reasons why poverty is progressing so far today. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Considering that around 80 percent of the Austrians are afraid of their jobs, it is to be said that the government policy of recent years has been a wasteful policy. We have heard today that the budgets of recent years – the Minister of Finance has been graciously nagging when the colleague of the ÖVP said this – have been swindling budgets, and even this year, as we had to know, there will again be an overrun. Yes, how will this excess be financed? With a new tax package that Austrian employees – both employees and employers – have to carry again! I say that the primary cause of this galloping poverty is the government policy. I also do not take the ÖVP out of the duty to sit here, as if it were not going to do anything about it, which is bubbling all day before and sleeping in front of itself. You have also been able to do so again today, which has agreed to a new burden on the fishermen. There is nothing to do with making yourself and agreeing to the demands of the government partner for increasing the car tax for trucks only half and celebrating it as a victory. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This really is like brainwashing, if one halves the demands of SPÖs that were overlaid today, because ultimately it remains a burden, and eventually again many fishers, especially in the small and medium-sized areas, will throw the towel and give up their trade. I say that the burden policy and the inability of this government are responsible for the need and misery of many Austrians, who now live in poverty, who have to live in poverty. There are, for example, enough people in Upper Austria who are looking for work and who also find work if regional economic policy were to be pursued there. For example, a power plant is to be built with machine-intensive hours, which would not benefit a lot of workers, on the other hand, children sit in schools where they have to be stimulated, where they freeze, they are taught in laundry kitchens, because the rooms are far too small. But these are not elementary schools, but these are vocational schools. There, workers would be employed and not in impossible buildings, which are machine-intensive and do not bind workers. This is the policy you have been running for ten years, and there the guards of the jobs can still cry out so loud and so often here. You are talking about something here, but act contraryly, as Members of Parliament, you are adopting laws that are ruining the Austrian economy and destroying jobs. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9993	Next word: Mrs Kammerlander. Time left: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10014	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. After more than two hours of this discussion, I am almost impressed or seized by how many possibilities there seem to be to counteract poverty. Finally, I had to come when I have been listening to one or the other in the last few hours. What really impressive was the listing of Mr Grossruck, which is all about private institutions and institutions, who are fortunately doing something against poverty, so that we can calm down and perhaps take a closer look at the next savings package and decide with your coalition majority. That's about your presentation. One way to counter poverty, you also mentioned it in concrete terms, and I was almost grateful to you for that, namely the action "Light in the dark". That's really a beautiful thing. Always before Christmas, people get really warm about their hearts. That's where the poor are shown. These are all happy, solid, good, happy, poor people. This is celebrated by television, and the rest of Austria is allowed to donate. And since this is so successful, we do it every year. That this is a very embarrassing kind of policy, that it is a kind of social voyeurism, that you hide. That poor people have to appear on television in their misery, and that they also have to brag with the fact that they have to represent their misery so that they can come to what they actually have, namely to lead a decent life, so do you. We're not talking about that. The actual evidence of poverty has been delivered by the coalition parties, because what is this policy in this country, I ask you, what is it for a policy, the women, the families who make the disabled a beggar, to beggars who are allowed to do themselves at Christmas in a mission such as "light in the dark" in order to get what the policy should give them and secure!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] You're responsible for such a beggar policy. And how do you continue to deal with it? – You issued a beggar order, you issued a ban to beg. On the one hand, you produce bedding via television, on the other hand you issued bedding bans as in Graz and say: Hold it! That can't be! Aggressive beggar – but then the police have to intervene, because that could be something quite unpleasant, annoying. Perhaps child labour is also linked to it. If this goes on TV under "light in the dark", you don't care, but if it happens on the street when it's obvious when you have to stumble over it and if it's really poor, crushed people, no matter where they come from, then a ban has to come, because then it's no different. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is already a difference, Mrs. Kammerlander!]] That is how your social policy looks, so your actions look forward, and this is clearly understood by the possibilities of combating poverty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, you decided yesterday in the National Defence Council to spend 7.5 billion schilling for the purchase of tanks. The Social Democratic Party, first of all, has been more or less loud or silent about this nonsense for a few days, it has meant that there is still a lot to be questioned to vote in favour of it on the ground in the Defence Council. That's quite clear! You don't have any problems with that at all. You see, this 7.5 billion, which is exactly the sum of savings due to the toughest measures of the last savings package, which is exactly the sum of your savings in emergency aid, in the karence, in all the measures affecting single and single teachers that affect women – all we have been holding for months. It's 7.5 billion, and that's what it's like. You decided yesterday in the same breath, with a hand-moved move by the Parliament, and then the representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP stand out here and explain to us what opportunities there are to combat poverty. It's embarrassing! I find that embarrassing what you're doing here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think, if it is obviously so easy to use an action such as "light in the dark" money, then the Minister of Defense should go to "light in the dark" and there raise the funds for his tank purchases. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If this is such an important concern for the defence of Austria as you claim, then the Minister of Defence should argue. Then he's supposed to present it, then he's supposed to argue, just as you think the poor in this country every year, to argue in front of television, why they need money. People with disabilities and all the others believe that year after year. Then the Minister of Defense should justify this once properly, and then he should look at it sadly – he can do that – with a maleish smile – and he can do that, and then he should say why he needs the money. Then we'll see if you get it or not. The 7.5 billion, however, will give you back where they belong. They belong to the single parents and single parents, to the beneficiaries of emergency aid, to the many families, to the women, to the disabled, to the care workers, to all those whom you have taken away in the last two years. That's how it looks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If there is a complaint here that there is not enough time to discuss it, I suggest you make an inquiry about it! If we make a joint survey on this, we make a survey on this situation, and we advise all serious about how money can be diverted or fed back to the original purposes. In order to support this, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] You have always argued for a long time and tried to justify why you have to put these savings measures, why you have to take the money away from the poor in this country, but you have completely forgotten to justify and to present the relevant analyses, why, on the other hand, you think 7.5 billion schilling is for us – and I believe that this opinion is still a lot of people in view of the situation in Austria – completely absurd projects. If you submit the documents, show the analyses, bring all these plans, and then we will discuss in Parliament just as we have discussed your proposals for savings. But on the one hand – once again – the poor in this country are taking away the money and spending it on the other hand, surrounded by Parliament, while avoiding democratic institutions and decisions – this is an unfair and unfair policy that does not deserve to be represented here by you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10109	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kammerlander, together with the two other requests which have already been tabled, is under negotiation and will be put to the vote shortly. Mr Müller has now come to speak. Time left: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10133	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am already attesting to the subject of today's urgent question. It is of particular importance. I must say, however, that poverty cannot always be measured on the basis of a certain amount of money, it also depends on the expenditure of the individual amounts to be incurred, for example, housing costs may be very different. Here, with a certain income limit, efforts are being made to flatten poverty, so a numerical example that does not necessarily reflect true circumstances. Nevertheless, we must not underestimate this problem in many areas. Therefore, we cannot repeat our demands often enough – with "our" I mean our social democratic demands – and our desire must be that both the tax conditions and the direct support should be aimed at helping the weaker income accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Current topic is the social staggering of transfers, such as those in the family sector which are consistently suited to compensate for income differences. An example: Mrs Haller! If the Constitutional Court finds that maintenance obligations of strong parents should not be sufficiently taken into account in existing family promotions and that these parents should receive more, it must be our aim to give only one answer, namely the establishment of a ceiling for constitutional purposes accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the financial distress of the long-term unemployed increases the risk of poverty in this group. I particularly welcome the efforts made by the Minister for Social Affairs to allow projects in the non-profit and local areas not only to integrate the labour market, but also to create additional jobs in this area and thus to secure a corresponding income. It rightly criticises the applicant that the number of minor employees has increased sharply in recent years. In this respect, however, I must also refer to one of the last plenary sessions, in which, through the trade agreement regulation, the regulation was partially opposed, but it was largely rejected by the opposition. Obviously under the poverty line, the homeless live, who are almost exclusively cared for by social institutions with many qualified but also very many volunteers. Here I would already like to see an even stronger - including financial - use by the public authorities. It is overlooked that a non-indisputable part can get into this situation because of a wide range of causes. In any case, this is where our social network has to reach out. The highest risk of poverty was in the range of over 65 years. This has significantly improved in the last decades because of the massive increase in minimum pensions. For us, Social Democrats are in the foreground of having a secure job and thus obtaining income. This is the most important form of security of existence for the individual. However, high employment is also a prerequisite for good economic and social development throughout the state and is particularly important for social peace. Economic structures cannot and should not be preserved permanently. New areas of employment, new jobs and new measures must always be developed. The government is aware of its responsibility. It shall take appropriate measures and make available the necessary resources. Social democratic concerns have always been and will always be – and the population can rely on us Social Democrats too – to help the socially weaker of our society to ensure a fairer distribution of income and thus to counter poverty accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10202	Mrs Aumayr has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10224	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! If I consider the proposals made by the government parties to combat poverty in Austria, I can only say: They're nothing but poor. From the SPÖ came the proposal to create jobs, while daily in the newspapers stands how jobs are reduced in Austria. You can't even get the jobs that have existed in Austria so far, let alone create new ones. But the bird, with its demand, must have shot down Mr. Großruck. I have to say that if nothing else comes to your mind than that a show like "light in the dark" is useful to combat poverty in Austria, then I can only tell you, Mr Großruck, that I will be introduced to the ORF, I will ask for my own mission for the ÖVP under the title "Light in the dark", because at some point you have to have a light on who is responsible for the poverty of the families in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You missed the theme! You missed the theme with your criticism!]] Your family ministers! At some point, you have to see who is to blame for 30 percent of the rural population living below the poverty line, namely, your Minister for Agriculture of the ÖVP! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Give an example where you helped. Give an example! You can't say anything!]] Poverty in Austria is female: 420 000 women in Austria do not have their own pension entitlement, and 50 percent of women have a pension of less than 7,700 p. We have already heard that poverty is increasing in the country. The farmer's pension – one must imagine this – is the pension of farmer and farmer together is 6 400 s, Mrs. Horngacher. A farmer receives 3 640 S pension. Mrs Horngacher, you have rightly criticized this. Only, who's responsible? – For 20 years now, you have been setting up the appropriate ministers! And something else, Mrs Horngacher: Your group rejects any request to improve the agricultural population. We have recently made a request that the unemployment contributions for the ancillary farmers should either not be lifted or, if they are cancelled, unemployment benefit is paid to the ancillary farmers if they are terminated. They vote in favour of all these requests – one by one. However, in Austria poverty depends mainly on whether someone has children or not. This must be imagined: Although we are the seventh richest country in the world, there are 270,000 children living at the poverty line. And your tax policy is clearly responsible for this. Every year in Austria, each taxable person has 84 000 S as a minimum of taxation, only the family members are refused a minimum of living. No matter whether a family father has one, two, three or four children to care for, tax policy in Austria simply does not take into account. And this is an essential cause for the risk of poverty throughout the country. The tax package, which has been decided against the votes of the opposition, this Maastricht-Euro tax package, which the government has decided, is particularly affected by the families. One has to imagine that this load package is now giving a family with six children – income under the minimum of existence – less than 19 000 s a year. A family with a child – also under the minimum of existence – is left to the vein at 10,000 s, but a family with a child and income above the minimum of existence is only given 2 600 s per year. – Where, I ask you about the coalition, is there social balance? And the demands of SPÖ and ÖVP to continue working for the families are really a dangerous threat when you see what you have done in this load package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The family policy of this government is limited solely to election posters. There suddenly exist for you the families and the children. There you can picture with your own children or with foreign children – depending on how it is necessary – and after the choice everything is forgotten. You only need families as a majority in the elections, and then you give them back to the desire of the Minister of Finance. Who will prevent you from finally introducing a tax system in which families will at least receive part of their benefits? If today the families have fewer and fewer children, then the generation contract no longer applies. But families have enormous costs through child rearing. A minimum of existence for all family members would solve the problem with a blow. But it is not only that more and more families are getting below the poverty line, but it is already taking place in a sluggish impoverishment of the lower middle class. This increasing poverty has long been affecting not only those who are already obviously under the minimum of existence, but also workers' families and civil servants' families. These families can only survive more because they receive grants from their parents in part. In addition to the burden caused by this Euro-Maastricht tax package, last year's rents increased by more than 4 percent. People can no longer afford to live. Private households can no longer pay the charges for waste water disposal, for waste, for electricity costs. And this again hits families particularly hard, because larger families need a larger living room, have higher costs. This policy, however, does not take into account this government in any way. [[Abg. Eder: This is wrong what you say!]] No, in no approach, nowhere! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This woman has no idea!]] The Federal Chancellor spoke about the creation of jobs. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I recently met the CEO of Lenzing AG. He has drawn our attention to the fact that 500 jobs will be abolished at Lenzing AG, it will be outsourced. He said that he could only manage the plant as CEO of an AG successfully if he rationalized. And rationalizing means letting go of people. He can't do anything else. He suffers personally because he feels like a monster. He knows very well that there are more than 500 fates involved. It must do so, however, because labour costs in the so-called low-cost countries are so much lower, so that it simply cannot maintain production in Austria. He said that production is already being moved from Indonesia to Bangladesh, to China – always where it is most cheap. And with an eerie rage, factories are dismantled and rebuilt in the next cheap zone. The Executive Director of Lenzing has had only one answer to my question as to how he could imagine that at least from a European point of view this problem could be solved: The only way to solve this problem before we get into mass unemployment is to introduce protective duties.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10319	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. There are three motions for resolutions. Firstly, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on an annual report on poverty and wealth. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution on the subject. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The second motion by Mr Oellinger is a resolution on poverty research focus for 1997. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion be shown by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution on 7.5 social billions instead of tank financing. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, Mr Wabl, give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. That concludes the vote on the urgent question. Short debate on the reply to the question 1335/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10400	We are now entering the short debate on the question answered by Mr Bundeskanzler with the order number 1335/AB. The corresponding answer to the question has been distributed in writing. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. We are immediately entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speakers have 5 minutes at their disposal, the first speaker 10 minutes, and if a member of the Federal Government speaks, the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. First speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. So he has a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10435	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The Liberals have made a written request on October with the request that these be dealt with urgently by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has usually answered the urgent question with the fact that he has not answered it. The same thing had to be experienced today by the Green Group with its urgent question. But not only that: The Federal Chancellor also refused to answer the written urgent request in due time. Federal Chancellor! This is an instrument which is being used more strongly on the part of the opposition and which, unfortunately, has been very limited in the context of the last reform of the Rules of Procedure. That is why the Members of the House have the right, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to comply with the term of office and to give an answer within a given time limit. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! We also do not understand that you do not answer questions at all, nor do you answer questions with 39 questions in such a way that you do not answer questions at all and that you also answer questions inaccurately. I'm going to address a few questions in detail. First of all, Question 3: To which international organisations and to what extent have Austria made voluntary contributions in recent years? – You write in the request answer: Apart from the fact that the term "voluntary contributions" does not constitute a sufficient distribution basis, the answer to this question does not fall within my competence. Federal Chancellor! According to the 1995 funding report From the Federal Chancellor's Office to foreign organizations, they contribute in an order of 250 million schilling. That's not a lot, but it's 250 million schilling. And if you look at the funding report and take out individual positions, a position sounds rather ridiculous because of our budget deficit situation: Consultation measures for the budget deficit for Poland. – Mr Federal Chancellor, I cannot understand that you are giving your heart for such things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In question 4, Mr Bundeskanzler – this is about the announcement at the World Social Summit in Copenhagen in 1995, where you have just promised 1 billion schilling – we have asked about the legal basis on which this award is based. You said that you had discussed this with the Minister of Finance and with the responsible Secretary of State, and that is why you have awarded one billion Schilling. There will be legal bases in the form of a government template to be introduced in mid-1997. In questions 6 to 17, we have asked specific questions about guarantee measures. For example: For which countries have new liability commitments been made since 1986? In what height are these? With what country under what conditions and in what amount was a guarantee contract with a term of up to 2029 concluded? With which States have guarantee contracts with a duration of at least ten years been concluded on what conditions? For which countries have there been re-indebtedness in recent years at what level and when and at what conditions? A comprehensive re-indebtedment agreement with the former USSR is a debt of 29 billion schilling. How high is the interest rate on this amount? And so on. Federal Chancellor! On the one hand, you willingly give a billion discount, on the other hand, you get concrete questions about how we Freeman them on 3rd. In the context of a written urgent request to you, the answer was: These questions affect my performance skills only in a marginal way. – That’s really not how it can be done! You have addressed one question more specifically, namely the question of debt interest rates for Russia in the order of 29 billion schilling. You answer this question by saying: As far as Question 15 is concerned, I would point out that Russia has not been granted any relief from debt. A commercial interest rate is therefore applied. – What is a commercial interest rate for you, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Is the commercial interest rate on the basis of the current financial debt report of the post savings bank in a 7 percent order? Is the commercial interest rate for you one based on Libor with a supplement of 0.5 percent! Is he 4 percent? Or is it a long-term interest rate of 6 percent? – You can choose it. Is there a commercial interest rate or not? You have not answered this question. The question was answered in the context of a written request from the Minister for Finance. The Minister of Finance has answered this question as follows: The capital payments thus begin in 2002. It should be noted that Russia has been paying interest of around 2.3 billion schilling since 1992 in line with the volume of dues entered into so far. – With a base of 29 billion schilling and a duration of at least four years, you want us to know that 2.3 billion schilling is a market-compliant interest rate to the order of 29 billion schilling. This is an interest rate in the order of 2% and no longer. Today, 2 percent are still not a market-compliant interest rate, as the interest rate and the Libor were correspondingly higher years ago. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are things that an opposition party is annoying. We ask specific questions, you do not address the questions at all, just one question in the concrete, perhaps in the hope that the liberals or Members here in the House have no information from other ministries, and believe that you can go away with a really false statement about our questions. Federal Chancellor! An interest rate of 2 percent is not market-compliant. If you set an interest rate that is in line with the market and is in a range of 4 to 5 percent, then interest should have been paid in a range of 4.6 to 5.9 billion schilling. That would have been a capital interest rate. Federal Chancellor! I come to a further answer to the question. In question 20 we ask you: When to Become It has been submitting to the National Council the East Aid Act, which has been promised for years and which has already been requested by the Court of Auditors several times, and to what extent is the damage to taxpayers due to the shortcomings in Austrian East Aid identified by the Court of Auditors? – We get an answer from you: The Court of Auditors' suggestions were essentially not related to the East Aid, but to the humanitarian aid measures of the Federal Government. On the basis of the fact that I am not qualified as a damage to the Republic of Austria by natural disasters, war events or the like, I note that the shortcomings listed by the Court of Auditors have not caused any damage. Federal Chancellor! You know the Court of Auditors report. It's about positions. For example: According to the general terms and conditions, three offers had to be made for goods of an award value of more than 100 000 S. The Court of Auditors has found that 50 per cent of the costs have been increased by an incorrect award, equivalent to an additional charge of 400 000 p. The Court of Auditors noted that in December 1989 a large aid organisation for drug supplies to Romania received a funding of 6 million schilling. In the absence of such records, however, it was not possible to determine where the deliveries were made and how their distribution was carried out. For a delivery of 1 000 tonnes of feed to Romania, which was supported by the Federal Chancellery with more than 3 million Schilling, there were no receipts and transport certificates. Also for a promotion of 10 million schilling for assistance operations carried out in Croatia, there are no receipts and reports on the distribution of aid supplies. According to the Federal Government's Framework Decision in January 1991, over 100 million Schilling for the prevention of supply bottlenecks in the former USSR, an aid organisation received 10 million schilling for auxiliary goods, indicating that only supplies of certain urgently needed supplies are to be carried out. And what did you send to the people? Algae capsules, mamelin ointments, natural remedies such as Charitébutter, China palm and St. John's herb oil. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you now claim that the Austrian population has not been harmed, because you probably believe that the damage has arisen to those people who wanted to take these aid measures, then you are mistaken. The Austrian population, the Austrian taxpayer, has suffered great damage because you have not taken the appropriate control measures to ensure that these supplies arrive according to their purpose and are provided to the population as well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's our criticism, Mr. Federal Chancellor! We make a urgent request with specific questions, and you withdraw this request, you withdraw the urgency by not answering the questions to the House, and you answer the request too late, incomplete and partly incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10558	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10579	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Trattner referred once again to the question of the debt of developing countries and the announcement made by the Federal Chancellor at the Copenhagen Social Summit. I am very grateful that this question has been raised because it gives the opportunity to clarify the meaning of this activity. The main purpose is to free most indebted poor states from the debt burden in order to give them the possibility of normal economic development. We should all be interested in this normal economic development of developing countries. In a situation where world economic growth is unfortunately only 2.5 percent, while trade growth is gratefully 8 percent, as part of this world economy, we must be interested that there are as many players as possible who are able to expand their economy accordingly. And in many countries of the world, it is a prerequisite for them to be freed from certain old loads. If Austria is to take a bilateral step in addition to taking part in multilateral debt, then we are not doing this alone, but we are essentially doing the same thing that other civilised Western European countries are doing in order to contribute to a more reasonable economic basis. The basis for reasonable economic development, for reasonable social development, is still the best investment that can also be made for peace and stability, because every analysis of global crisis-strickens will determine: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] There, where no light – economic and social – is recognizable at the end of the tunnel, the tendency to violent conflicts is greatest. That means making economic development possible is a concrete contribution to preventing wars and violent conflicts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why does the Federal Chancellor answer the question wrong?]] The Federal Chancellor has answered this question completely correctly. He has confirmed that he has put forward this in the context of the World Social Summit, he has announced a government proposal in Parliament and has pointed out that Parliament will then have the opportunity to decide. On the other hand, Parliament has dealt with this issue in the course of a hearing in the presence of all five parliamentary parties, and no one has stood up in this hearing and has questioned the basic reasonableness of this measure. In reality, apart from any political debate that can be held, whether it is conservative, progressive or as always, everyone in the world today is clear about it – the international financial institutions, all the finance ministers – that no way passes by the debt of the poorest states. And if Austria is involved in such a measure, this should not be a cause for criticism, but rather rather for approval in this House, because Austria presents itself with positive contributions to the development of the world and not with negative headlines.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10626	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10647	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads through precisely the request of the liberals, one comes to a basic problem that lies behind it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Please read through the Chancellor's answers!]] The basic problem is: Due to the development in Austria, due to savings packages, can any measure be taken at all – through re-indebtedness measures, whether through development aid, whether it be Austria’s diverse activities abroad – and also justify them? . I think that has not been said so far, because many times the impression is raised as if this were just a question of humanitarian measures. But that's not it. I believe that, in the interests of our citizens, three different points must be taken into account. Point 1: States have a global responsibility, and Austria also bears a global responsibility in the interests of the Austrians. If greenhouse effect occurs when the air quality is affected so much in different parts of the world, it is also for Austria, before which we cannot simply close our eyes, but in the interest of our citizens, we have the responsibility to act here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Nevertheless, you can know where things come from!]] Of course, that was partly answered. I would therefore think that the steering effects that can be achieved in this direction in the field of environmental protection will create a way for us to be able to provide development aid that we can direct re-indebted measures in this direction. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But the credibility is important!]] Point 2: Austria also has to move in the European environment. The answer given by the Federal Chancellor to Question No 1 shows that we are in no way in the European environment providing very extraordinary benefits – I am thinking of the contributions made by Austria to the International Development Association, where we are in an area of 0.9 percent, which is much lower than in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the reason for the excitement? I would say that in the interests of our citizens, too, we must stand on international commitments and comply with them, we owe this to our citizens in the sense of the credibility of our policies. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to make a third point, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gusenbauer has already referred to this. I believe that in Europe, in view of the development of a field of tension, situated on the edge of a stability zone, we must also invest in security in future by securing this security to other countries through investment in stability. If I remember that the Eastern countries in particular will be re-indebted to us in the next few years, I must say that, under the security aspect, this also has an relevance which we cannot ignore. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can see from this reply to the question: We do no more than other comparable states, but we move in the European environment. We have entered into commitments that we have to face. And one thing I would like to write to the Freedom Party in the main book: If you say that the Federal Chancellor did not answer questions 6 to 17, I would like to point out: If you ask the Chancellor things that are not in his competence, then perhaps you should first read the Federal Ministry Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10737	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10758	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker from the Austrian People's Party gave us an impressive picture of how different the argument is in the Group, for he said: We do no more than others, and it all has its accuracy. I should like to remind you that there is Dr. Mock sitting here, who protested as Foreign Minister in 1995, that the Federal Chancellor has gone to the World Social Summit in Copenhagen and has given 1 billion schilling hours and gifts. Mock has said that we need a regulation, which is not in line. – Now the same Chancellor writes in the answer so welcomed by Spindelegger that he does not need this decision, he has anyway discussed it with Gitti Ederer and with the Minister of Finance. The ÖVP can be welcomed by the fact that billions will not be spent without decisions, and then you go to the speaker's desk and explain to the Austrians that we have to fight poverty.- Oh, my God! – This is your double strategy, and that is why you are so unbelievable among the voters! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We don't pay more than others, he says. – Please, it is stated in the request that 455 million Schilling have been voluntarily paid by Austria into a new fund because the Americans no longer fulfil their commitments from UNIDO. Do we have to take responsibility for the Americans now? Mr President, we are not paying more than others who are fulfilling their obligations. – An absolute nonsense is what you have said here! You should be better informed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In his reply to the question, the Federal Chancellor said, for example, on the subject of HTM: The European Union, the Commission will submit a report shortly and will not object to the HTM grant by Austria. Taking into account the given framework conditions, the solution, which was taken by the way, by the way, with the involvement or mediation of a renowned international investment bank, was at least the best possible. - So Vrannitzky. As regards the report that Vrannitzky has held for months, the Commission already adopted it on 31 December. In July 1996, he pretends to be coming only now. He's already got it. There is something else in this report. In this report, page 25 states: The sale to Eliash cannot therefore be considered as the most cost-effective solution for the Austrian tabak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen, hear!]] – Just the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, stands inside! That is, the corporate policy of the government of Vrannitzky, the Federal Chancellor, who just produced and said here a few minutes ago: Jobs are important! is that we have invested 3.6 billion schilling in public funds in the meantime in the sale of the HTM – 3.6 billion schilling! – have also lost 500 jobs in accordance with the EU document. That means job security for this government, ladies and gentlemen. Then the chancellor goes here and says that this is the best possible solution, just because an investment banker who has also filed commissions there suddenly made the sale and thus the Republic of Austria has withdrawn its property. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the things we criticize. This is not an economic policy to which we stand! Third point: Semperit. That's where we asked. It takes months for the Federal Chancellor to have an opinion on Semperit. And then he tells us in the document that he spoke with Mr Schröder, the Social Democratic Prime Minister, who is sitting on the Conti Supervisory Board, and together they had reached a location guarantee for Semperit. An interview with Mr Hubertus von Grünberg, the Conti chief, will be published in the "Economics Week" in the morning. This says the question of which work will be locked in Europe: "It will only depend on the direction of the work, and I will drink the most expensive. Traiskirchen isn't out yet." – Is this your location guarantee? [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Traiskirchen is still affected by the lock: "Traiskirchen isn't out yet." And then the Federal Chancellor says he met Schröder, and Schröder as a Conti Supervisory Board assured him that history is clear. – Everything is wrong, untrue! Half-truths, inaccuracies! This is exactly the policy we are attacking. And we are also right to criticise this answer, because Parliament has a right to the fact that a German chancellor also gives a serious, proper answer which is correct in the facts and does not get rid of the opposition and says: [[Complaints with the liberals]] I don't even care! If there is a great deal to be done here in terms of job security by investing billions of schilling in public enterprises, Parliament also has a right to discuss whether it is really a reasonable economic policy to invest billions and destroy hundreds of jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10819	Mr. Dr. Haider! I was informed that you would like to submit a request for non-knowledge of the answer. But you didn't do that? - Good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That was only for me to clarify. The next one is Mr Magistrate. Peter to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10849	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent question is probably one of the most important instruments of opposition in Parliament, and I know that it is covered by the Rules of Procedure if the answer is partially submitted in writing. However, I do not think that it is a good practice to submit these answers in writing, because that is not exactly the meaning of a urgent request. It is the opposition's task to ask urgent questions to the government, and in my view Parliamentary world view, it is the government's obligation to answer these questions urgently. Even if it is covered by business regulations, I think it is unfortunate if more and more written answers are submitted, and I think it is double unfortunate if these answers do not arrive in time. On the subject itself: We Liberals, of course, acknowledge the international responsibility of the Republic of Austria and believe that the share of our development aid is too small. We pay 0.3 percent of our gross domestic product, all in all, for development aid. I think it is an absolutely unacceptable comparison to add and say to those funds that go to people on this earth, which unfortunately are much worse than the people who are already poor in our country: What could you have done with it in Austria? It is our damn duty and guilt as the Republic of Austria to help at least alleviate this poverty in the world in the context of a global responsibility. Unfortunately, we cannot solve the problem. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But check how the money is used!]] - I'll be right there. I think, above all, that the aid we have given to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is an absolutely productive one. It has been an aid which has helped, among other things, to ensure that the trade balance between Austria and the Central European countries has been positive since the opening of the East. In the 94s alone, there was a trade surplus of 14 billion schilling! Here we develop our own markets. And it is too short to simply say that these funds could have been done in Austria and that. The multipliers resulting from the development of the Middle East European markets are much higher for our country in terms of employment, in terms of value added. I also believe that the Paris Club is quite right if it has decided to make debt easier for developing countries. Only this goes by the subject. It's just a punctual correction. The real problem, ladies and gentlemen in the House, is that world nominal interest is higher than global nominal growth. This is the problem of developing countries, including many debtors in the first world. The problem here is that these highly indebted countries are losing interest because their economic growth is nominally smaller than nominal interest rates. This is an international question, where I call on the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to point it out at international level. There's something in our mind to escape. Thus, the partial decommissioning of developing countries can only be an aid, but it does not solve the problem which lies in the described interest rate growth and which is undoubtedly also in the case of the population. The equal rights of women in developing countries, the building of old age insurance and, I say so deliberately as third, the question of birth control are those areas that we must address in order to inhibit the development of poverty there. Federal Chancellor! With all due regard to the liberals' commitment to this 1-billion schilling-debt and to the 300 million schilling for the Palestinians, it has been a bit noted. Just as I politely ask you to answer you urgent questions at the place, so here, I can only ask you: It is wiser to deal with Parliament first and only then to give a commitment which Parliament can then decide without pressure not to desert its Chancellor. The control of the use of funds, Mr Bundeskanzler, is essential for the confidence of the people in this aid that is being given. And this control is obviously there and there inadequate, as the Court of Auditors has also demonstrated. I therefore do not think that this answer to the question is satisfactory. In my opinion, it leaves too many questions open. I don't want to reject them, but I think they're totally unsatisfying.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10893	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10914	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been informed to me that the written answer to the urgent question of the 3rd question, which I have promised, has been received. It was not until 3 days' delay that Parliament was sent to it, as was the case with two other responses. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I regret this mistake. At the same time, however, I can tell you that I have taken the necessary measures to ensure that such a delay will not take place in the future in almost a hundred parliamentary requests, or at most remains an exception. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You could have answered that in the debate immediately!]] Mr Peter! It's very nice. But only with regard to today's day: 40 requests with several subdivisions, which are net 80 to 90 requests. This is not really to be handled between noon and 3 p.m. I am sorry, but I cannot help but come back to this part of the Rules of Procedure. At the commercial interest rate: I've asked myself again, in these minutes. The variable EKB financing rate shall be applied to re-debts in the Paris Club, without any support element. That this recalculation by power. Trattner is correct from absolute amount to a interest rate, I don't want to doubt because you've probably expected well. My bill is another one. We're going to check that out. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What is the interest rate? What's your result?]] The control measures for aid deliveries to Eastern Europe and the above-mentioned Court of Auditors: The Court of Auditors refers to humanitarian aid measures. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen: The funds will be handed over to charitative organizations: Red Cross, Caritas et cetera. They must provide rapid assistance, they are not able to organise calls for tenders. We have communicated this to the Court of Auditors. With regard to no receipt: On the spot, victims are quickly being helped. It is impossible to require receiving confirmations from victims in crisis regions. That's totally unrealistic. That is what we have told the Court of Auditors. With regard to Copenhagen, we have to hold it again – Member Gusenbauer has already explained this, I repeat it –: There is agreement between the two government parties to prepare a government proposal and then to forward it to Parliament. Of course, no loss of debt will be effected before this law is in place. On the comments concerning semperit: There is a letter from Conti's CEO. Conti is a stock company with a Supervisory Board in which Prime Minister Schröder is not represented, neither personally nor otherwise. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You always say that!]] I never said that, you always claimed that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You wrote it!]] You said last summer: Go to the shrodder, he's sitting in the Conti Supervisory Board. - He's not sitting there. The Chairman of the Board of Management Grünberg has written a letter to the Federal Ministers for Climate and Farnleitner on the content that the location Traiskirchen remains. I am very glad that we have achieved this in the discussions, because in the meantime the tire sales of the Traiskirkner plant have increased again, and we have a good chance that the work can develop further, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider referred to a report by the European Commission on HTM, as he said, on the subject of ‘HTM’. July. Of course, that's not true either. ==References== August. But that doesn't matter. He said that this report reads as follows: The sale to Eliash cannot therefore be considered a cost-effective solution for AT. – I did not claim to be "cost-effective", but I said "best possible". [[Call to the liberals: For whom?]] If you really are dealing with this, you know that this remark is 'non-cheap solution' because the Commission has a dialogue between two alternatives: continuation or bankruptcy. They have opted for the continuation of the work on the part of Austria and for the saving of jobs and not for bankruptcy. If, today, Dr. Haider goes here and says, not cost-effective enough, and better of the costs would have been the other alternative, namely insolvency, then he means that HTM should have gone bankrupt, and several hundred jobs would have been lost. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it's not over yet, because if you want to pick something up on the political opponent, you're selective. I am not selective, but I am comprehensive and reading before what the report says. Pronunciation: "The Commission considers that even if AT's intention to sell HTM has not been publicly announced, the sale took place in the context of a wide-ranging procedure which corresponds to a normal public tendering procedure and in which AT selected the best offer." – That is what the report says as a conclusion of the review of the HTM transaction by AT. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I read in the APA that Secretary General Westenthal has accused the Chancellor of lying on the subject of HTM privatisation. "Vranitzky should comment on his scandalous answer to the urgent question." [[Call the SPÖ:Congregation!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here's the word "responsiveness." I assumed to answer a parliamentary question. I assumed to make a request and not a lie answer. Think about it grammatically, and there's nothing to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11052	There is no more word message. I'll close the debate. I have already pointed out that the honourable Members are allowed to do so. Trattner and comrades have tabled a request to reply to Question No 1306/J by Mr Mag. Trattner and colleagues on gifts of money versus savings package by the Federal Chancellor do not take note. I shall now vote on this motion. [[Abg. Arbitrator: How is he brought in? Excuse me, Mr President, but you have just said...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Rules of Procedure!]] Deputies! In the meantime, I have found: The request has been submitted in writing and submitted to the Bureau. In accordance with Article 59 of the Rules of Procedure, it is an application for business treatment which I do not particularly need to involve in the proceedings. I shall therefore vote on this request now – it has been properly handed over. I repeat: We are now voting on the request of the honourable Member. Trattner and comrades not to take note of the answer to the question. Who is for the request of the honourable Member? Trattner and comrades are, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request has not been accepted. That concludes this debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11106	I now take the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda on Federal Finance Act Novelle 1996 and 2. The 1996 Budget Overrun Act was re-opened. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us continue the debate which has been interrupted by the urgent question and by the question debate. More private, less state! - We've all heard that. Everyone's for it, only nobody does. Mr Finanzminister! 66 billion Schilling more revenue – a Weidmannsheil! They were successful. They have driven two thirds of the 100 billion needed in the structural adjustment package through tax and tax increases. It was half out if I remember correctly. The fact is that your successful collection policy and the successful tax and tax increase by the coalition parties will increase the tax and tax rate in Austria from around 43 to 45 percent. The fact is that we have so far been in the middle of the European Union with the tax and tax ratio and today we will reach the 45 percent or perhaps even exceed this brand if the Austrian Central Statistical Office provides useful figures again. This is actually an expression of state belief and belief in regulation. This may have been necessary in the short term. And why was it necessary? – In order to achieve economic and monetary union in the wake of the disastrous policies of the first half of the nineties. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! It was written to you in the main book: They achieved a net debt of 6 percent in 1995. For this, you have the responsibility of saying "more and more private and less state" to you from the Austrian People's Party, and you from the Social Democratic Party, which promised people more than it could eventually keep financially! The state tasks are undisputed. Nobody wants the nightguard state that doesn't work. However, in addition to the important tasks of infrastructure, education and social compensation, the question of the cost of public services must also be raised. Have you really done this enough, or have you just preached keywords: more private, less state? Was the efficiency of the production of services really checked in the administration and in the private administration? Only lunch during the service period is not enough. And the fact that the population is still selling as a success is quite fun. Have you ever thought about customer orientation and the reliability of state transfers in the field of state performance? If you had done all of this, then – I am sure of that – today we would have achieved a tax and tax rate in Austria, which does not rise to 45 percent, but tends to drop to 40 percent. The 1998/99 budget plan – I assume that Mr Feurstein and the Minister are making it up now – will be the basis for the 1999 tax reform, which naturally comes before the election; that is clear anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein and Federal Minister Mag. Climate Talking]] But will there also include the corresponding reform of the state power apparatus in the efficiency, in its performance setting, in the citizen orientation, in meeting security? Will it succeed in reducing public consumption in the 1998/99 budget programme in view of the fact that we have greater scope for public investment in future security and infrastructure in this country, for multipliers? Will we really be able to reduce the volume of transfer in the crowd and yet target it? Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that these are the questions we address to you with good justice from the opposition and where we are waiting for this 1998/99 budget programme to come to the table. I think it is wise that you want to sum up the two budgets, and I also think it is right that they should be negotiated here in Parliament in two stages, because the budgetary authority is probably one of the most important tasks of the House. Overall, the objective and the demand must be geared towards the 40 percent tax and tax ratio. I'm saying, and I'm going to put it here. It is possible to provide the same public service in the same quality for the people of this country by carrying it out more productive, efficient and targeted, with 40 percent tax and tax ratio, and not 45 percent, as you have to represent it here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Again: The representatives of the People's Party demand "more private, less state". Please tell your electorate in the Chamber of Commerce and elsewhere that you have agreed that we have a 45% tax and tax rate in Austria today and that we are now in the EU field. Tell me! But then you also argue that you have the responsibility. We from the opposition have kept us from that. The start of a structural and forward-looking debate on basic incomes and citizens' money, as difficult as it is, will not save us, ladies and gentlemen in the House. We will only find the answer in this way as to how we can combine increasing value added in our society with rising unemployment without causing poverty. The traditional absolute binding of the income of a person in that country exclusively as a labour income or as an income replacement as an emergency aid beneficiary, social assistance beneficiary or other supporter – this system has reached its end. We Liberals have once started this debate on citizens' money and basic income. We do not have any coherent answers yet, and we have repeatedly asked you here in this House to think with us in this direction. So far, it's been a one-sided conversation. You have the discussion, you have refused the answer. I believe that the new working world will be a much more productive one, a much more targeted one, with a smaller proportion of people who have fixed working conditions, and a greater proportion of people who will come in semi-independent or completely independent forms of life. The more important it is to offer these people a basic guarantee. For it cannot be a citizen of this society, whether he is sleeping under the bridge or whether he is financially very well, that is, the need of the individual, the need of survival. This is a cultural question in our country. And here the working world starts to separate itself from basic security. I admit that is a difficult economic question. But in the 1998/99 budget and the following, we will have to solve this question slowly. So far, you have refused the discussion. I regret that. Let's start at least with today's day!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11215	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11236	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References====External links== Budgetary overrun law, which is under discussion today, has already been implemented, including the possibility of making budget redeployments in the resorts. However, I would like to say: They do not include an authorisation to receive additional loans. It is also to be said that the most important redeployment in the 2nd century. Budgetary breach law that are 809 million schilling in connection with the year of the post. This measure is a consequence of the establishment of Post und Telekom AG as an independent company, which is to be managed in commercial terms and has its own management. As we know, cooperation with the PSC will help to ensure that most of the 2 300 post offices in Austria can be received or re-used, new tasks can be carried out and that most of the 60 000 staff, the postal workers, will also have a chance in the future. Mr Trattner and Mr Peter, my previous speaker, have referred to privatisation here. I would like to say that: For me, privatisation is not primarily a matter of property. For me, privatisation is about performance, awareness of costs and efficiency in management. But in principle I don't care who owns this company. I just don't care that it's more non-Austrian or non-Austrian property, especially if it was once state property. Ladies and gentlemen! The BÜG also shows that the 1996 budget targets can largely be met, that the budget implementation is consistent despite many wishes that will always exist, which are constantly applied. This 2. However, it also shows that the route of coalition, which is to reduce the deficit, will be successfully pursued in order to obtain budgetary leeway for future employment policy, for future economic policy. Mr Peter presented it in a theatrical manner, but it is absolutely right that we should go this way of consolidation. With regard to the 1993/94 and 1995 budgets, the new growth rate of the 6-percent limit was approaching and was even slightly exceeded in 1995. That is why we have adopted the 1996/97 budget in one with a structural adjustment law. [[Abg. May. Peter: Has all this been necessary?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Experts have examined the distribution effectiveness of the consolidation programme and have found that, Mr Peter, the revenue-based measures in particular ensure that these two budgets have a positive distribution effectiveness, but above all the 1996 budget, because this distribution effectiveness is generated by the fact that those with higher incomes will also make a greater contribution to fiscal consolidation in the 1996 and 1997 budget years. Furthermore, the investigation also found that, in particular, the closure of tax loopholes, including the limitation of the transfer of silent reserves or the possibility of loss participation models, resulted in an increase in distribution justice. It is important to me personally in the 1996 budget to note that it is not only consolidation measures, ladies and gentlemen, but also, of course, it also includes huge employment policies, particularly in the area of infrastructure, rail, road, the area of federal construction, housing and a wide range of environmental measures. I very much regret that the F, the liberals, through their speakers and by a motion for a resolution more or less disqualify these efforts by saying: There are a few billions for the "red" rail and a few billions for the "black" road. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm familiar with these infrastructure expansions. I recognise the State's investment policy in this area, not only because of its direct employment impact, but also because it is about improving the quality of the Austrian economy, and that is important for us in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! The opposition parties have made different considerations about the budgets. The plans of the F under the key proposal "lowering taxes, creating jobs" are, in fact, a work destruction programme for me, a programme that leads to a drastic relief of privileged people. For if the tax relief of unabsorbed profits is required if the minimum cost is to be abolished, if one demands the abolition of the support of the loss claims, then one must first explain to me which of these measures will create or even secure a single job in this country, and to whom use these measures: the "little man" to which the F supposedly strives, or is it not rather a question of moving profits accordingly? Or the claim of this opposition party to reduce the tax rate massively, but on the other hand to compensate for it by massive increases in energy taxes. – Ladies and gentlemen! What levels of income will be affected? – First of all, those who have a tight wallet will be affected, that is, the so-called little man. The demand for the abolition of redundancies, the Hohes Haus, and then the need to bring them into a pension fund, actually means that workers have to finance their own pensions in the light of their own needs. – Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot really be the policy that this House carries! The particularly tasteless demand of the liberals not to subject apprentices to the SV duty, so to stop treating them like other workers, not leaving them in the social insurance obligation, would mean that an apprentice no longer has a right to sickness benefit, that he has no entitlement to unemployment benefit, that he is not receiving any benefit in the event of an accident. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: These are students, too, Mr. Colleague! That must not be true! To present this is an insanity!]] Mr Maderthaner! I very much regret that you are following a path which is very worrying for me and which will not help to ensure that young people will be told with special joy of teaching. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: What about the students and students?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, I would like to comment on a motion for a resolution that Mr Pollet-Kammerlander may still bring in – if that is true; I assume you will bring it in – on a motion for a resolution on bilateral development aid. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Well that you already introduce him!]] – Yes, I have to introduce him, because, from our point of view, this request is quite legitimate and has a meaning, but I have to inform you that it has already been implemented, that the Ministry has already employed these 100 million schillings and that the money is already on the way to where it belongs. I believe that it is not worthy of this Parliament to demand something from the Ministry and the Minister, which is already fulfilled. I have to tell you, with all your permission and understanding of this request, that we cannot therefore accept this request, and I believe that this request should be withdrawn because the Minister has already fulfilled this request. In addition, we will be the Federal Finance Act and the 2nd. BUILDING. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11322	Before Mrs Kammerlander comes to the fore, Mr Rosenstingl has made an actual correction. – Deputies! You have the floor. Speech time: 2 minutes. Catch Please do with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11349	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni noted that the proposal for a directive lays down a provision for apprentices to be no longer socially insured. - That's wrong. Rather, it is true that we want the apprentices to be insured with the parents, but with full social security obligations, so that the firms can have a discharge.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11371	Mrs Mag. Kammerlander, now you're talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11400	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. My request has already been presented by Mr Parnigoni, and I may be able to save myself a lot. This is not the case, however, because, as I have already said, it is almost like the annual Christmas gift, although it was not always Christmas when I tabled this request; but it is obvious that an annual request here in Parliament, which is due to the fact that you share the financial resources for bilateral project and educational work in development cooperation, so that there is always a part of the budget overrun and at the Minister's discretion. Thus, as long as this remains so, this is always a trembling party for those who work in the area: Is this budget overrun, or is it not coming? I think this is the fact that this is always divided between the ordinary budget and the overrun of the budget, which is unacceptable, in an area which has been constantly reduced in recent years and which is now less than one billion. Although there have also been fundamental decisions here in this House that development policy as such and thus bilateral development cooperation should never fall below a certain percentage, this has not happened. That is, the facts are always the same, in principle it is becoming less and less money, and it is increasingly uncertain whether it is fully available or not. Even if this year only more than 100 million are in the budget, it must be said that this reduction is not an essential part. I'm not withdrawing my request. It is nice to hear here that this is on the road; according to our information it was not yet on the road two days ago or not known as such and not safe. That is why I do not see any reason to withdraw the request now. As I see it, you will not accept it and vote for it, but it is simply an annual reminder of you that I do not think it should be done so with a very important area in the development policy. If we take ourselves quite seriously on this issue of development policy and development cooperation, I think that this proposal could also be an incentive and an incentive to think about it, to come to a different budgeting and, above all, to a different method of budgeting. Because one thing is clear: On the one hand, it is not possible to call for reforms in bilateral cooperation there or there, for evaluations to be made even more rigorously, and for some to be subject to more critical questioning and control, but on the other hand, some of the budget resources so shortly before the 31st century. In December, it was still in doubt. Mr Parnigoni! Even if you emphasize this, I must say that I do not really think it is very commendable if, in the last partsession before Christmas, we are, so to speak, by chance and only because we are making a request, we learn that this is already on the road. Again: I think that the whole process of financing this bilateral development cooperation should be different. In addition, we are also discussing in the Subcommittee a proposal to ensure at least these billions of development each year. In that sense, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11470	The motion for a resolution, which the honourable Member has just read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next item is by Mr Edler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11494	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Federal Finance Act 1996 has already been positively addressed several times and has been recognized as necessary and correct. Personally, I welcome this, particularly with regard to the introduction of reserves for labour market policies under the labour market promotion law. Ladies and gentlemen! A few hours ago, when we held an in-depth discussion on poverty and social security in Austria, this is, I believe, also a contribution to the fact that we can start projects on labour market promotion, which will create jobs, which will allow many people, women and men, and especially young people to have a chance for work. That must be the essential thing for all of us together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not just a matter of talking about it. I don't think we've seen this so seriously yet: We must really fight for every job, because it is also about maintaining social peace in Austria! I think this is a model that we can also present internationally. If we look around today – the problems are more extreme internationally and see, and there are similar developments – we unfortunately have to find that very often the "road" is chosen. And that can't be the right way. We want to continue the path of partnership in Austria. Many times the saving was also mentioned again. We've known about that. Ladies and gentlemen! A critical comment, on my part, on the discussion on the item on the agenda for EU adaptation with regard to road use: I would like to point out that we have approved an essential gift for the truck market here. As far as saving is concerned, I also believe that it would have been possible there to bring in the savings ratio. The arguments put forward here, outsourcing to Germany, circumvention of the transit contract, may at times already be true. I'm a Vienna MP. We also experience outsourcings in the eastern region, especially as regards the locations in the truck yard. Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. Look Once again, how many truck operators open locations in Preßburg, Hungary. This has nothing to do with the EU and has nothing to do with the road use tax directly. This is another challenge that we have to deal with differently. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that – and this has been mentioned here – we are called together to speak, not to manage the unemployed, but to manage employment programmes must be our task. The Federal Government has done this properly, and measures have been taken. I'm only allowed to say critically here in a parentheses set: It is necessary to reduce red tape. If I have discussions with companies, with board directors, but also with works councils, I always insist that it would be possible to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. But we suffocate in bureaucratic processes. I think we've been challenged to stop this. The government template concerning a novel to the Federal Finance Act 1996 is a right way for some decisions – for positive decisions regarding the labour market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11551	As the last speaker, Mr Rosenstingl mentioned himself. Mr deputies, you have the floor. – Voluntary time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11573	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Budgetary Overrun Act is a welcome occasion to deal with the government's debt policy and expenditure policy. Of course, debt policy also includes the investment to be made in Austria in the transport infrastructure. However, there are special misdemeanors here, because important decision-making bases are not available. We know that the federal road map is still not available, and it will not be available for a long time. Therefore, there is no basis for decision. Citizens' and environmental interests are not taken into account, but debt companies are created which will not be talking about repayment of loans. This has also admitted the Federal Minister for Climate. At the time when these debt companies were created, it meant that there will be no compensation in the field of transport infrastructure expansion, but only interest will be paid. Finally, however, we know that the consequences in this area must be borne by taxpayers. It is invested, although the sensuality is not fixed, and a dramatic example of this is the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reasons for this dramatic example are obvious and have often been discussed. Mr President, I should like to thank Unfortunately, since recent developments, it has been clear that there will be a longer construction period and will therefore be at a much higher cost at the Semmering base tunnel than originally planned. However, this is money that is not available. This government coalition wants to spend money that it does not have! On the one hand, we beat ourselves with a budget overrun law, on the other hand, money is to be spent on these debt companies, which is not available and what our children and their children and subsequent generations still have to pay off. And don't come to me with the eternal argument that the Semmering base tunnel is to be financed privately. First of all, it must be noted that, of course, private financing should also be largely borne by the ÖBB. We know recently that despite the exclusion of the Austrian Federal Railways from the federal grant, the Federal Government has not changed anything that the federal grant has remained the same. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, it is obvious that the government coalition is increasingly lagging behind private funding. ==References====External links== 11th@item: inlistbox In 1996, where one first sent to the transport experts of the Federal Chamber of Labour. Transport expert Bernhard Engleder said: The Semmering base tunnel of the railway could be built without private involvement. He then continued: A private participation in the Semmering base tunnel in the sense of a mixed public-private construction model with refinancing via user charges seems to be less useful than financing through the ÖBB or the federal government in the context of infrastructure financing. – This was the first withdrawal movement from private financing. Now one should think, in view of that, the ÖVP will make a cry and say: We have always voted in favour of private funding. That's got to hold. But, look at that. In December 1996, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel said: The Semmering Base Tunnel is a politically long-standing thing, which is at the stage of the realization of the Sinnerstoll. He then noted that the Semmering Tunnel had not been a topic at the ÖVP Party Board meeting on Thursday. The Lower Austrian head of state Erwin Pröll did not take part in the deliberations, but some other Lower Austrian representatives did. Now you could say: Okay, you're off. But bowl is acting under the motto " Whether bowl contradicts bowl". ==References== However, in January 1996, I have to quote the ÖVP, in which it is written: "Thank you very much for your letter. I am very pleased that you are supporting the policy of the ÖVP in the area of Semmering Tunnel. We are entirely of your opinion that no tax money may be put into a project of this kind. In times of saving, and we must definitely save, projects of this magnitude can never be financed by public funds. The SPÖ is here a long time ago to put a financing package on the table. The figures available do not vote, they vary between the announced 6 billion and 10 billion schilling. The financing of the main tunnel is still in the air." Then it goes on. Finally, the bowl said: "For me, the whole Semmering Tunnel thing is just another example of the SPÖ's refusal of reality to face upcoming problems. We therefore say that either a private financing solution must be found without the federal responsibility or that construction is not started. With kind greetings Vice chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel." Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== ==References== In December 1996, he changed his mind completely. It is now for the non-private financing of the Semmering base tunnel, although no money is available for this tunnel. However, I would like to give the EIA today the opportunity to stand on the matter and express its opinion and therefore submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Take the opportunity to wash your vice chancellor in, who changes his mind from month to month! ==References====External links== 1. It's the first time I've ever seen it. In the interests of a proper budgetary policy, accept this request!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11663	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl is in accordance with the rules of procedure and is part of the negotiations. There is no more speech, and I am closing the debate. A final word from the rapporteur does not take place so that we can now come to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] To the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11696	Mr President. Is there a vote Croquis?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11728	I was told that no Croquis was prepared for the clubmen because there are two votes on government documents. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No amendments?]] – There are no amendments, only two motions for resolutions have been tabled, on which I shall then vote. I shall now vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals, and we shall first vote on the draft federal financial law Novelle 1996 and the title and receipt in 459 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft is largely adopted. We shall now vote in third reading. Those who are in third reading for this draft may give a sign of approval. – This draft has also been adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now vote on the draft for the second time. The 1996 Budget Overrun Act, together with the title and receipt in 460 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This draft has been adopted by a large majority. I should like to put the third reading to the vote and ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their assent at third reading to this draft to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. We are now voting on two motions for resolutions. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Kammerlander, Hans Helmut Moser and comrades on the implementation of the budget surplus authorisation for bilateral development aid. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the prevention of waste of money and environmental destruction by useless Prestige projects (Semmering Tunnel). Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution has been rejected. 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 324/A by Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act, with which the Federal Constitutional Act and the transitional Act of 1 January 1994 were adopted. ==References====External links== No. 368/1925 and the Law on the participation of the National Assembly in the control of postal fees and prices of monopoly goods and the remuneration of employees in state establishments is repealed (520 of the supplements) 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 343/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Act extending the validity of the provisions of the Reference Law and the Constitutional Court Act 1953 on non-increasing remuneration (521 of the Supplements) 7. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (502 of the Supplements): State Printing Act 1996 (522 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11819	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We can go into the debate immediately. The first speaker to speak was Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11849	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus in my speech on the State Printing Act and make an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to remind you of the debate in the Committee and remind you of the following: We had a discussion of the government template. This was then improved towards the lack of rules for the transfer of staff representation to the Works Council. In fact, from my point of view, however, the issue remains that the distributed society is assigned certain tasks which it has to perform at least, and among these particular tasks are also the printing and distribution of official publication papers for Federal Offices and the printing of the "Vienna Newspaper". I would like to make it quite clear here that the Liberal Forum is of the opinion that if we break out the state printing with the provision to privatise it in the way through the ÖIAG, we must ensure that neither this law nor the subsequent statutes of this society contain provisions which ultimately result in non-market-economy exclusion and privatisation. From our point of view, it is certainly plausible and, above all, in the transition, it makes sense for the state printing to continue the activities already carried out, particularly in the field of so-called security printing, because, on the one hand, continuity is useful and, on the other hand, the special requirements of security pressures, as they are meant here, do not find a picture of market competition; on the other hand, if we do not consider that we are providing a printing company within the framework of the Austrian National Bank, which certainly has comparable qualifications. But that's another subject. We were also of the opinion that at this stage the printing and distribution of the federal law paper, i.e. the body which represents the only authentic legal source of the federal laws and regulations, should be kept in continuity. However, we believe that in the event of a sustainable privatisation of the company, these two aspects will also be subject to a review. In this sense, I would ask the majority of the amendment we have tabled. We firmly believe that, in particular, the Members of the two government parties, if they once again remember the problem, should not see any reason to disagree with our amendment. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11915	The application is supported in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11940	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that we are making progress in the administrative reform with today's decisions. It is about reducing legal provisions. In the autumn session, the administrative reform was successful several times. I recall, for example, the decision at the end of October in connection with the Federal Law Law. An example of today's constitutional package: The Post Act is amended – an ambitious project. I do not need to explain this now, it has already been the occasion for poetry and truth and for polemics. A central feature of this is that the sovereign postal charges are replaced by private-law charges. The current state of the art, with the participation of the National Council, is therefore absent. Here there is an intelligent and, like me, an elegant legalist solution with a recast of Articles 54 and 55 of the Federal Constitutional Act, which brings about the prevention of fragmentation and also an integration of remaining legislation. Thanks to the staff team of State Secretary Schlögl for this really good and legistic very interesting, elegant solution. This is how we are doing administrative reform, ladies and gentlemen. This may be unspectacular, but it is efficient and beneficial for the citizen. There is a great difference to certain developments where administrative reform is misused as a vehicle for something quite different, for very specific interests. For example, the Economic and Social Committee, under the cover of the "Law Flood" in Parliament, has operated lobbyism, with the aim of freeing the economy from these annoying neighbouring rights, annoying environmental regulations and annoying workers' rights. That's what's in it... listen! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Who said "disgusting worker protection"?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who said that? You're saying that! That's something else!]] I am now telling you what you have said as an expert, camouflaged secretary of the Economic Union. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who is this?]] I quote: "We are in Austria" – ladies and gentlemen, one really has to be broken on the tongue – "not yet as much as in the USA and New Zealand." So I really want to tell this gentleman that it is not the objective of Austrian economic and social policy to create American or New Zealand states. Ladies and gentlemen! If you wish to work in Austria, you have to expect the bitter resistance of the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You quote half of the sentence! You say half-truths, my dear colleague.]] That was a quote in this petition committee from your secretary, Mr Maderthaner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So: bitter resistance to social democracy! In the context of the non-increasing political relations, I would just like to mention: It has been carried out since 1993 and in any case only makes fun of newspaper commentators, in part rightfully, ladies and gentlemen, in part, but also wrongfully. For the Commission set up with rank, names and certain corresponding fees has failed and has not properly presented the billing model for necessary expenses of Members. That is why an appointment shift with due damage to the reputation of the politicians, to which you too, Mr Magister, always contribute to the best of your strengths. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You cannot blame the Commission for what you have decided! The Commission has also set you up yourself. The Commission cannot do anything for you to adopt a law with your majority! Don't shake the Commission!]] We can discuss references, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will then also talk about your honorary husband, about your Mr Götz, and about the candidates of the liberals for the Klagenfurt municipal council election in March. Mr Mag. Stadler! That is what you have to expect when we now discuss references in detail at this item on the agenda. Then we also talk about the liberal candidate for the municipal election in Klagenfurt. A Ceterum Censeo, ladies and gentlemen: Whenever it comes to amendments to the transitional legislation in 1920, I cannot resist the long-term overdue reform of the district court structure in Salzburg, Upper Austria and Styria. It is about this anachronistic provision in the transitional law, where the consent of the state government is required for this judicial matter. If the requirement relating to the consultation mechanism, which the payer buys, is seriously meant – I have the words of the head of state Pröll in my ear – then this must also apply to the court structure in Austria. It's just the other way around. That's where the countries create, and the federal government pays. Therefore, my recent request to the absent Clubobmann Khol: Finally, give the way for us in Parliament to decide on an efficient and powerful judicial organisation. The SPÖ will vote in favour of the three constitutional templates. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12050	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12072	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment to the law on the participation of the National Assembly in the postal fees scheme gives the launch of a new tax-labour. This means that the delivery of responsibility for postal charges is premature at that time or is a political cowardice. We know very well that the framework conditions for post-disbursement have not yet been established. It was an inconsistency. You don't know what the opening balance of the post will look like. We do not know what the revenue development of the post will be like next year. What we know is that in 1997 the item needs substantial additional revenue if it is not to be repaid accordingly. This is due to the fact that a wrong budgetary policy has caused the post to be ruinously burdened. But now the postal customers are to pay the bill for this burden. The real background to today's change is that the increase in the fees is already fixed at the post office. I would like to inform you of the already fixed increase in fees if you, ladies and gentlemen, do not know. I have in my hand a paper from the Post General Directorate. This paper is referred to as "Table 1" and has the heading "Increasing revenue from 1997 fees". In this, it is divided into exactly what you're going to do. For example, more revenue on mass shipments with personal address 81.5 million schilling. However, I would like to stress that this is expected from 1st. ==References== It is therefore expected that this increase will take place at this time. For letters and postcards: general increase of all tariffs. Then the variants are shown: 50 grams et cetera. Special treatment rights: Registration fees increased from 20 to 30 S, fees for acceptance confirmation from 23 to 30 S, charges for own-owned delivery from 11 to 15 S, late payment from 6 to 10 S, loan fee from 1 to 3 S. Then one has the intention to afford the fees for foreign packages, of course also for domestic packages, EMS, and then it goes on with an increase in the fees for postal orders. Ladies and gentlemen! These increases, already provided for in a postal table, are to be made from 1. ==References====External links==* Official website I do not think it is necessary to point out that this means a burden on all postal customers of 1 230.06 million per year. This is therefore a real burden on postal customers because you are unable to pursue a reasonable postal policy! We liberals believe that this policy must not be carried out on the back of the customers. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think we cannot support the postal customers, Mr President, that in the next few years they will have an additional burden of 1,230 million schilling. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Write this to the Christkind!]] I know you feel like all Austrians are. We liberals do not do this, and we call on the reasonable to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12127	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl has the necessary number of signatures and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12152	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The discussion, which is to be conducted and managed in Austria and which is better done in the private sector, has been conducted for many years and, of course, there are many different ways of thinking. We have always made efforts in this direction and have also set ourselves a clear goal in the Coalition Agreement to carry out the widest possible distribution of all federal departments and to transfer them to the private sector. With this in mind, there are two applications today: Application 324/A, with which the Federal Constitutional Act and the Transitional Act of 1 January 1989. It amends the law on the participation of the National Assembly – today the National Council – in the regulation of postal charges and prices of monopoly items and the abolition of the remuneration of employees in state establishments. We therefore agree with this request with conviction, because it will be the first way that companies will be able to compete and set market prices. A real step! – You can certainly be different in this respect, but there must finally be a start. Secondly, we agree with the proposal because it gives and achieves competitiveness internationally, both nationally and – and I would like to stress this in particular – without any government influence. This will enable companies to generate revenues that they do not have to carry out, but can use them to further develop in the technical and communicative field, to restructure and to perfect themselves in many areas. In this way, I believe, we are strengthening their position in the free market and thus safeguarding the future not only of businesses, but also of securing jobs. I believe that this is very, very important, and this should also be emphasised in such a discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, the fragmentation of our federal constitution is also reduced – also a requirement that we, I believe, should and want to fully comply with. Our common expectations and hopes are that this will eliminate negative influences and also reduce fees and tariffs for the benefit of the citizens and consumers of this service and for the benefit of our entire economy. If you believe, Mr Rosenstingl, that we are starting a brutal slave to the burden, then that may be your idea. But you have certainly not been so deeply concerned that you have also read that there is a structural concept. We are hopeful that, through this measure, we will be better able to claim ourselves in the free markets in the future and also to offer these services to our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to add that this has always been a concern of the Austrian People's Party, and I am pleased that we can take a step forward in this direction today and that the requested privatisation measures are finally being continued. On application 343/A concerning a federal law extending the period of validity of the provisions of the Remuneration Act and of the Constitutional Court Law 1953 on non-insurance of benefits, it was found that today – and thus since 1993 – the fifth suspension of the increase is taking place. Within the framework of the Structural Adjustment Act and budget consolidation, there is a great demand for citizens, including the economy, that is, all of us. We politicians, we parliamentarians, together with the Federal Government, want to show once again that we are willing to take a restrictive course and take it along. However, I believe that it is important that this signal should come more closely to the public, because all the measures of this kind over the last four years have not actually found the recognition, the approval and also the attention that might have been necessary. That is why I believe that we all need to carry more awareness here so that this decision can also be adopted and accepted. In fact, it is a real reward for everyone, but because of our goal, we consider this decision – as mentioned earlier – to be reasonable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to say that the work in politics must and must also be justly honoured. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It makes no sense to reduce the public's confidence in politics and its representatives by means of a flat-rate polemization, from any side. That must be an end. I think everyone's longing for it. And I hope that this campaign will be completed soon. ==References== It will also be decided on the continuation of the flat-rate payment scheme and the distance allowance. The three economic loyals, who are working on a new regime on behalf of the President, have not yet presented a feasible, therefore acceptable proposal. We all expect a transparent refund corresponding to actual expenses, which does not cause any additional costs for the administration and no additional costs for the parties involved. I think that is something quite, quite important, because we are not all interested in further bureaucratic effort. The government template for the reorganisation of the legal conditions of state printing became necessary, as the State Printing Act of 1981 – entered into force from 1. January 1982 – the state printing company was established as its own economic entity with its own legal personality. This led to a more rational and flexible management. However, this legal form did not allow for privatisation. With this law, which is to be decided today, which does not cause any costs to be covered by federal funds, this company, which is established in the form of an AG, will not only be able to comply with EU law, but will also take an essential step towards ensuring that this company can participate in the free market. This is an important decision in the sense of our goal. That is why we will also give our approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12239	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner is now speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12260	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on a law which gives us a time to regulate our own relations, I would like to ask you again and ask you to consider what contribution we could make and what we could contribute from Parliament. It was more than shocking for me to see the proposal made by economic fidelity, because I actually had great confidence in this profession, which I myself am close to. But I believe that we have been punished for making the solution of our most serious problem, namely a reasonable, manageable, acceptable – even acceptable – regime of reference, so to speak, to be delegated by the population. Why did we do that? . We are obviously unable to argue in public our own worth of our own claim, and we are afraid that something could come out, which would satisfy us, but which is no longer clear to the citizen. And so that this does not happen, the models are becoming increasingly complicated, the special regulations are becoming more and more adventurous, and this model or another one that I do not believe will, despite all efforts, not be suitable to spread sand to the citizens of that country. We have a particular claim to be defined – I do not want to say how high or how low it should be – but we should agree and argue together, whatever we decide to do. I think there is a job description for parliamentarians and for political functions, as in any reasonable industrial enterprise, and it could be found without difficulty. But, of course, it can only be a flat-rate regulation, a regulation that is manageable and clear, which does not result in a bureaucratic effort, which does not result in control, which we, as the legislative body of a country, could ultimately only derive from ourselves. So I think there's a lot possible here. I regret that we have taken this path. I hope that if we are already dealing with this law, which we are now going to give our assent – in order to get us air again so that we don't be too blaming ourselves too much – we will also regain a small amount of initiative. I also ask you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, to act in this way in your party. The Blamage is actually big enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12304	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12325	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If, on the one hand, the government parties have been surprised that the previous steps in the non-increasing of political relations have not been recognised in the public, I must say that this does not surprise me too much. Because the way in which you have done so far cannot find approval, recognition. On the one hand, you have always expressed no definitive renunciation at the time of the non-increasing, but have created a situation that can at any time lead to cumulated increases. They want it – and yet they don't. You are still not prepared to have the actual discussion on which the displeasure of the population has rightly inflamed. A regulation was created in August – that was in itself positive – which should put off the so-called unemployed incomes of politicians in the public service. We will now explain with a series of questions to what extent this has really happened and whether very strong pro-forma activities are being carried out now: any research orders, any work on which one can doubt quality in the past. Because I dare to doubt in every form that it is possible to do two or three full-time jobs – services for the population – carefully side by side. I think that's impossible. Therefore, only a model in the way it exists in Germany would be appropriate. There public functions – and thus I mean functions in the public service in the narrower sense, for example in ministries, in national and municipal departments, as well as functions in public bodies, in chambers, in social security institutions – are against the loss of remuneration. Once you do this, then at the absolute height, for example, the references of national councillors, as I mean, will hardly inflame themselves. I consider the references, especially for those Members – and this is certainly a majority in this House – to be absolutely justified in carrying out their duties. This is to be said once again. Where should a policy of substituting lead – especially as long as there are still some, which double and triple cash? Sometimes doubts are expressed as to whether the service provided actually corresponds to a full-time job, as is otherwise required by any other public servant. As long as this doubt is in the room, you can't find approval in the population. I also propose that income in general, including those obtained from legal and correct private activities, should simply be disclosed. If money is properly earned if wealth and income have been properly acquired, then there is no reason not to disclose it. Then the population should take a picture of who the representatives of the people are. I think then some exaggerations and fairy tales would stop very, very quickly. Decide on glass party funds, decide to disclose all income and the wealth situation of mandaters, as we have so often requested, and to provide public services in the broadest sense – including chambers, social security schemes – with a scheme that is called 'carnation against loss of remuneration'. I guarantee you: There will be approval of such a regulation on the broadest front. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] No, that's not the case. We'll clear this up with questions. I fear that it will always hurt politics as such, but this regulation is again half-hearted and inadequate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second to the order to the economic fidelity: If the Member of this House has said that the auditors have not complied with their mission, I would rather say that the award of orders was absurd. All the rules that follow to press the activities of representatives of the people into any bureaucratic system, which is very difficult to administer, have been condemned from the outset to failure. Why have you been hunted by any media reports in which it has been recommended that a network card be made available to the honourable Member? Why do you not stand by the fact that people whose mandate it is, are legitimated by the people to represent the interests of the people, of course, also travel around the country? I believe that we should choose the most cost-effective arrangement, a package whose level corresponds to the price of the annual network map of the railways. This is a reasonable and cost-effective thing. Everything else gets much more expensive. Everything else leads to an extreme increase in the administrative burden and the number of departments in this House. This does not represent anything productive, nothing that would improve the working opportunities of Members, but only increases the administrative burden. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Where do you live, Mrs. Petrovic?]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: The Wiener would get as much as more distant Members!]] I do not know how often you are in citizens' initiatives, I believe that the people have a right to be able to discuss directly with their mandates. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Of course they should come to Parliament. But I believe that our task is not just to discuss in this House, our task is not just to be in committees, but our task is in particular to go to the population and to speak and answer. I believe that you are presenting solutions here that will make taxpayers more expensive. No one understands that. If you are setting up a system for the reimbursement of office expenses, which causes 18 million schilling of additional costs, then I think that is really only the result of your displeasure that you are being beaten in the public for a supposedly excessive salary, with you in fact taking party tax. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You want more!]] Create You're clear here! If you feel that the promotion of parties in Austria is too low – I am not of this opinion – then you will discuss it at this level. Create You don't have any channels from the Member's wallets directly to the party's banks! In addition, MEPs must obtain money in a different way – about the detour of office costs and such charges. Everything that does not correspond to a clear and simple rule, everything that deviates from the system of fixation, at this relatively low level, is condemned from the outset to failure. In times like these, when you simply cut down and delete important benefits on every occasion – for example in the social field – you simply cannot represent significant additional costs for the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They could represent a fair salary scheme and a fair system of fines. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Petrovic! How can you represent that you want 15 million more for the Internet, for club financing?]] You can't represent anything else. You cannot represent it if you create more posts here, only for the administration of Members' fees. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How do you want to answer that club financing will become more?]] Mr Khol, to answer this question: I can represent it! I have also always voted in favour of the direct working capacity of this House. Yes! Democracy costs more money in times new technologies arise. We are a working parliament and not a Honorary Parliament! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What is the difference between an office and the Internet?]] That is why Members need to work together. That is why technical support is needed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And more money!]] The difference is quite clear: Here a fee is paid against deliveries and services of third parties. Everything that is indirectly going back to the parties' cash registers or even the individual mandates is not acceptable. The working capacity of the House, a fair and fair income per Member and a clear and flat-rate pay bill, which is something you will not beat in public for. But you have not yet found the courage to find such a solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12486	The next word is from the honourable Member's office. Stadler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12508	Mr President. High house! I have repeatedly accused the government parties of a sluggish approach to the Constitution. Today we have a proposal for the decision-making process, which proves how sluggish the Constitution is. It is intended to be reorganised in a law which we reject from fundamental considerations, because it reduces the participation of the National Council by another element. Today, on Agenda item 1, we have passed a law on which, after examination by constitutional experts, I have now been encouraged to believe that a constitutional provision was again adopted there as a simple legal provision; I have already informed the Minister of Finance. This government not only does not care about the questioning obligations as provided for in the Constitution for the Federal Chancellor, but it is less and less concerned with our federal constitution. But she pretends as if she knows God as if she were unconstitutional. But now it's the real thing. The case of Höchtl at that time led to a panic reaction on 9 May. In July 1996 a reference law was passed. At the same time, however, it has been foreseen that the car costs will also be paid at the taxpayer's expense, because many owners of thick sleigh will no longer find their way out with the train map. At the same time, the opportunity has been used to pay the costs of the office, which you already have in your own constituency or will have in the future, from the taxpayer. It has then been done as if everything would be cheaper for the taxpayer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You think that's funny? People in this country don't know how to fight Christmas, and you're laughing at these people! They are making a grip on the pockets of people and taxpayers in this country! You should be ashamed instead of laughing up there, Mr Murauer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look at the numbers projected here! 17 million schilling of travel costs – carefully estimated – 12.4 million schilling of travel time, because the Members of Parliament also want to earn something in the traffic jam when they arrive on the West motorway and sacrifice their even so valuable time for the well-being of the population – which is at least an ever smaller one. The number of poor in this country is growing alarmingly, as we have heard today. But that's what the gentlemen of the ÖVP find so funny and laughing. At least the SPÖ is silent. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ knows – except for Mr Herbs – that this was a shame that was decided in July. We told you that dozens of times: from A to Z a blackmail! Cleansing It does not deal with economic fidelity today, just as Mr Khol has done. The economic fidelity, Mr. Hazelsteiner, you are quite right, have only tried to do the best out of the pot you have decided to do. But it was impossible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, the economic loyals will also be well advised – in the interests of their own reputation – not to engage in such an adventure with the Parliamentary President and with the House at all. And that because you have passed a law once again, where you first – this must be broken on the tongue! – wanted to exert the ÖAMTC for the Blacks and the ARBÖ for the Reds so that the gentlemen of ÖAMTC and ARBÖ could explain to the House what the House decided a few days ago. That's how it looks! This is the "quality" of your legislation, with which you have nothing else in the sign, but at the expense of taxpayers in the future you can also pay for your thick sleds and the office costs in your constituencies! Otherwise you have seen no need for action, because to this day the promised reference pyramid has not been created. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Karlsson]] To this day we only know that the Federal Chancellor should earn even more. To this day, we only know that the Vice-Chancellor wants to earn even more. To date, we only know that everyone in the House wants to earn more and more and that Members do not want to give up any schilling. To this day, we also know – Mr Edler of the Bundesbahn, you are meant to be! – that there are multifunctionaries here on the back benches. You're probably one of those! On the back seat of the government parties, they feel most comfortable. As a member of the National Council, the Lord earns a round hundred, as vice director of the Chamber of Labour and as the director of his union he deserves quite well, and he is still in grade 8 in the salary list as a train attendant at the South Railway Station. That is why the Lord rightly calls himself the "Edle von der Bundesbahn". Ladies and gentlemen, High House! The nobler of the Bundesbahn costs the taxpayer a decent rod money. Mr Khol, Mr President of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. We have settled the case of Höchtl. This has been a small occasion. He now tries to give the taxpayer the impression that he was doing something with a pseudoemployment. We have also not dealt with the question of Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, Mr Maderthaner is not here right now, Mr President Verzetznitsch is sitting here – all the people of which his own people now say they should finally leave the House because they are no longer representing the workers and the economic operators. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the dual function as a multiple cashier, they are no longer even able to perform their tasks as stakeholders. – That is what inspires people, Mr. Khol, not the freedom card for the ÖBB! Many people would like the high ladies and gentlemen to go back and forth to the train to see how the "ordinary citizen" travels in this country as he lives. But no, one would like to pay for his fat sleds in the future the cost of travel – even with correspondingly high flat rates, which are a blow to the face of every taxpayer, a blow to the face of those people who just now do not know how to finance the holidays.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12608	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12638	Do you want me to talk to you, Mr President? [[Prolonged calls.]] President Dr Heinrich Neisser Mr Deputies! [[giving the bell mark]] Start consoling, you will find attention already! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work. [[Continue]] I think it is wrong if the emotions are so high on this issue. The topic is actually not suitable for emotions, as it is not suitable for wrong headlines. It is also not appropriate – and I would like to say this to Mr Petrovic and Mr Stadler – to take political small sums out of it. All the accusations, all the precepts and false claims, such as those made here with regard to my colleague Edler, do not serve the matter. Our task is to find a solution to regulate the conditions for our work accordingly and to evaluate our services to be provided accordingly. We need to discuss appropriate remuneration and other framework conditions in relation to others taking on comparable tasks. It is just as wrong to talk about the hunger cloth as well as the stuffed horn. Mr Petrovic does not need to talk about not exercising his profession at all. I must say that I gave up my profession when I saw that my obligations in foreign policy no longer allow me to pursue another profession. However, it would be wrong and unreasonable to demand this from everyone, no matter how his security is – with me it is better because I have been working here for a long time. I would like to say something to Mr Stadler about the "deep sleigh" which should not be used: The only sleigh I have is the toboggan with which I love to carry out my grandchild with snow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I don't have a car at all. I use the subway that works very well. As I said, I have the sleigh for the grandchild. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You already have the driver's license?- Oh, my God!]] I've already got that. It would be wrong, however, to say that a Member from some remote part of Austria could also fulfil his duties as a parliamentarian in the terms of service we have with public transport. This would be wrong because it is not possible because we often stop working at times where no public transport is available. That is why this question is not appropriate for accusations or for political change or for emotions. We have to advise calmly and objectively on what is appropriate here. We have hoped that the proposals of economic fidelity will help. I don't know if it was wrong to order her. In any case, I agree with those who say that the proposals have not helped us further. I don't think I'm supposed to criticize her. I have the impression that if one gave a secretary of an economic fidelity the same office equipment that the economic fidelity of a Member plus employee together would probably leave us psychiatric or say that we would have lost any expertise. But it measures everyone by two measures. It does not seem to have been measured with the measure of your own experience, your own equipment, your own costs. – Be it as it may be. It will now be up to us to discuss this over the next three months. I hope that these discussions will be held less emotionally and more decisively than today's debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: As in June! Finally, admit that you have decided to make a smear!]] Mr Stadler! Whenever you are addressed, if you could answer – as was the case a few minutes ago – you are not in the hall or are not careful. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm almost always there!]] You'll try to bet with inappropriate calls afterwards to say something in the minutes: I'm here and I'm active. – This is not the right way, Mr Stadler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Colleague! I'm almost always here!]] I really don't want to discuss with you in this style. We can do it in peace afterwards. As far as the income pyramid is concerned, I am very glad that Mr President Fiedler has now stated in a letter to the President of the National Council that the details published in 'News' do not come from him that he has asked the Commission not to bring them to the public. As regards the details published in the magazine "News" or the question of how far they can be rated as correct or wrong,... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Col. Schieder! One question: why does he tell the ÖVP if he does not want to bring it to the public?]] Mr Stadler! I can still listen to you when I read something. But to read something, to listen to you and at the same time to answer you, that really doesn't work anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't want to overwhelm you!]] It is stated in this letter: "... I thought it counterproductive to give an opinion before the Commission's deliberations were concluded, drawing up the report. As long as the content of the report is not established, at least all that is reported on it must be referred to as a matter of urgency." That means we've got to wait for what's coming. We have to advise in peace. I hope that there will be a common solution and that the discussions will not be as emotional as your speeches and your calls for action. The three months we have won are good for the matter and for Parliament's reputation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12799	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Frieser. - Please. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12820	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I myself wanted to comment exclusively on the privatisation of state printing and certainly not on political relations. But because of the contributions made by my previous speakers, I am not going to be able to address this issue too. Mr. Schieder! I am very close to you that you have finally brought back some seriosity and good will into this discussion, just as it is your kind. [[Call to the SPÖ: How you are used to that by the Separatists!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In any case, the seriality has led to the decision of a total embarrassment in June!]] – I'll come to you, Mr. Stadler. Unfortunately, my colleague Petrovic is not in the hall. I can't follow Mrs Petrovic or her wishes, as far as political relations are concerned, on a wide range of routes. I am absolutely against the fact that income from entrepreneurs, from freelances, should be disclosed, but not because I have something to hide, but because I believe it is subject to data protection and a certain competitive clause. I am also not of the opinion that I would only have to exercise the profession of a politician, because I am very happy to have a civil profession because I am convinced that this profession gives me many suggestions for my political work and in some political decisions very much helps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] I cannot take this position of Mrs Petrovic. In addition, I think it is also a presumption that the Greens want to prescribe to all other parties whether they pay the so-called party taxes or not. It is an autonomous decision of the party or of each representative. I do not allow this decision to be made by representatives of other parties for me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now to you, Mr Stadler: I propose that the Court should reply as follows: They have no interest at all in bringing the problem of political relations into a serious discussion. You come here to the speaker's console, polemize, come with the usual "stuffers", with names you call, with double functions – it's always the same roll. It is you and your party who propose that every politician should earn a maximum of 60 000 s. I also consider this proposal to be deeply inconvenient. Again: It cannot be in your interest to put this discussion on a targeted and serious basis. They are working with this argument of too high political relations at meetings and at party events, because you know that you are the envy complex, which is naturally present, so that you can constantly stir up emotions against the politicians and keep on guard so that you can act as their savior so that your leader can act as Messiah. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, to state printing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you want to know another name, why did Mr Paierl from the E-Economie collect 1.8 million schilling waste for two years of work?]] You know, Mr. Stadler, I'm not going to this level! Personal attacks, that's not my style. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Explain this to the population once!]] They are really called upon to jointly make a proper proposal for our integration reform, to cooperate constructively and not to make constantly new proposals, one of which is more inconspicuous than the other. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Don't you know our suggestions, good woman?]] Do you think there is a federal chancellor anywhere in the world who is awarded 60,000 s? No one believes that this is your honest and decent intention! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wait until Jörg Haider is Federal Chancellor!]] But now, finally, to state printing. - Another time. The red light shines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12948	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12969	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Schieder! Political change is not to be won in this debate, but rather a relatively high amount of money is involved. However, in a completely different way. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a clear word about this strange qualification: please bring down emotions, out materiality. – I do not think that there is a senseless debate here in this House on important distribution issues. The opposite is not an emotion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but the opposite of reality is irrelevant, and the opposite of emotion is emotionless or emotional. I would like these debates on income issues to be the subject of reality and emotion. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder is right: It cannot be regulated by law that a Member may exercise only one profession, this must be reserved to the respective Member. But this has nothing to do with it, Mr Arbitrator, that the question of the compatibility of the role as MPs, representatives and officials is a different situation. You will be right to say that in 1982 it would have been more reasonable to find a system similar to that in the Federal Republic of Germany. At the time, they were opposed; however, they would have been saved from these cases which have already been addressed today. They are right, it is reasonable for some to maintain their private profession, as they only want to be Members for a while, but please, it is not a matter of insisting on the profession and continuing to do business as an official. [[Abg. Auer: What about the rotation principle? Have you forgotten?]] Mr Auer! I am glad that, with your help and with the help of Mr Höchtl, a change to the reference law has taken place. Only one seems to be in your group now: With your party tax, you have enormous problems. [[Abg. Auer: Why? Who says that?]] Members of the large political groups no longer want to pay the party tax if they do not have income from civil servants at the same time. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, why are you suddenly so anxious that there are office expenses? That wasn't a topic yet! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] You get your contributions from elsewhere, probably in some chambers, at the social partners your offices, your employees. You don't have any problems. You'll keep your side-references anyway. But what surprises me again and again in this House is that It is obvious that representatives of the ÖVP are not able to represent reasonable institutions – Mr Khol, Mr Khol, so that I can now replicate your call – like the Internet in this House, so that every citizen and citizen, as well as every Member of Parliament, of their place of residence, can access the business of this House via computer, over the Internet, which means that the citizen, any initiative, any representation of interest, can take part directly in the negotiations, while for decades they had no difficulty in allowing cases such as Höchtl and others to be tolerated very well. I think it is a great pleasure to want to improve the infrastructure in this House so that our employees can use the most modern communication techniques and improve our work – although this is not enough, but a requirement for people to be well informed – and you are suddenly afraid of making decisions on this, while you are already fully in the defensive. Mr Auer! The President of the Court of Auditors agreed that what was said in "News" was the subject of the negotiations. Mr. Vice-Chancellor immediately said: No, please, I don't want to. This reluctance – that is what the Freedom Party is right, and we have massively criticized this in the Styria, and Mrs. Frieser, I believe, has nothing to say – we reject it. As a party secretary changes from the head of the state first to the Board of Directors of the Styrian e-business, there is more salary than the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, then, as the Board of Directors, takes on a government function again and receives a full deal. – You should be modest, Mr Auer, you should say to your colleague and colleague: Please, we cannot represent this in the public! Col. Khol trembles in questions of improving infrastructure fear of the "Kronen Zeitung" and of "daily everything" because he fears for his noble image as Robin Hood or as a politician wandering around with sack and ash, who holds his little sheep and cages together. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a policy that is unsustainable. We Greens will make the right proposals. As far as the income pyramid is concerned, we are of course prepared to discuss constructively. We will look at these proposals – I have the suspicion that the Secretary of State also has a very reasonable proposal – then we will compare the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors with the proposal of the Secretary of State and we will be able to reconcile it with the proposals made by the party, so that we can make good decisions. Ladies and gentlemen! The greens have a clear position in connection with the distance fee. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... bad was!]] Mr Stadler is right that the law in itself is bad and that economic fidelity has been an overload. However, the fact that economic fidelity shows and represents something that is completely incomprehensible or associated with a huge bureaucratic effort shows again how difficult some things are to execute. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would ask Mrs Cordula Frieser to continue her private profession and to act as a precursor to the flood of law, but to stay in the hall for a single time when such a stupid, impracticable, non-financial, impossible, non-citizen's law is passed. I would like to experience in many years that the colleague from Graz takes a bit of courage and opposes the flood of law where she is produced, and not only in her hometown is she telling the admiring media: Those in Vienna always make such terrible laws. Mr. Auer, tell your colleague Cordula Frieser. She advises, I think, the next attack on the flood of law is very important. If you would like to tell her that she is here on the spot to ensure that this flood is curtailed a little, it will also have a little easier in future for Mr Khol to lead his club. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13060	Mrs Dr Karlsson is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13081	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! I really want to devote myself – what Mr Frieser did not do – only to the State Printing Act, because I believe that we should explain why the request of the Liberal Forum, the printing and distribution of official publications for the Federal Offices to delete item 4 and the production and publishing of the "Wiener Zeitung" is not a target. In fact, point 3 is not about anything, but about printing works already excellently carried out in the past from the operation of state printing. And I do not see that one is ruining simply from the ideological considerations, "Private is better, competition must be", a well-established and well-functioning company that does not cost the Republic of Austria schilling. The third point to be made is that of course there is also the following: Should any house printing or similar be cheaper, a different solution can be found. Fourth: the production of the Vienna newspaper. This tradition-rich paper must be allowed – it is only about the time until the "Wiener Zeitung" is not distributed – to determine where it is printed. That is why I do not consider the Liberal amendment to be a target. However, I would also like to use my speech to break a lance for Austria's oldest newspaper, the "Wiener Zeitung", which is now almost 300 years old, which is one of the few independent newspapers in the Republic of Austria. A dedicated editorial team researches well and also presents complicated links such as processes in Parliament, legislation and so on. And I do not want to say that I have seen with satisfaction the amendment, which is gladly carried out by all parties, according to which the integration of the staff representation of the former office of the "Vienna newspaper" into the Works Council is carried out, thus preventing this dedicated editorial of the "Vienna newspaper" from being represented without staff. For decades, state printing and "Wiener Zeitung" have done difficult orders cost-effectively and impeccablely. This operation is to be given new and good conditions for the continuation of this tradition through the present law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13127	The next speaker is Dr. Löschnak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13149	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I spoke in July of this year on the subject of 'political relations' and then tried to raise some fundamental questions that had been raised in this context and, as I think, still pose, to discuss. And I would like to address these fundamental questions once again, without wishing to repeat myself, because they seem important to me. I believe that when dealing with this issue, we should really think about how, for example, we hold it with confidence in the Austrian legal system – a subject that was deeply touched by the then innovation. Or how do we cope with the incompatibility of parliamentary functions in certain areas of public administration? – But this raises the fundamental question of what we really want: Do we want a parliament of professional parliamentarians, or do we want a parliament in which parliamentarians are involved with professions? – An important question, as I mean. Or: How do we keep it with the publication or non-publishation of political references – and only with regard to politicians or all references? – A fundamental question to be asked here. I have already said in July that the main negotiators either could not or did not want to find themselves to solve these problems. And so it had to be done quickly – and I let it be pointed out once that those who had caused this speed back then – everything had to go quickly. There were therefore no decisions taken in two other key areas, but they were postponed: the question of whether basic income should be regulated in a so-called salary pyramid, and, above all, the question of how, and, secondly, the costs incurred by the mandate, the additional fees of the parliamentarians. At that time, it was thought that this should be regulated in accordance with the proposal of a group of economic fidelities. And it turns out today that at least for this second core area, the proposals will not be or will be difficult to implement, which is why this new innovation should come about. I welcome the revision of the law of July 1996, but only because I believe that it will succeed and that there may be enough time to be able to make really fundamental considerations so that, I think, it is also important, and that should be called by name, a harmonisation of this salary pyramid, as it will always look, can be done with the additional fees. Because I think it is deeply reluctant to talk first about the one and next time, so to speak, to address the core of the whole story, and that independent of each other. I believe that if one enters into these principles and if one keeps in mind the harmonisation of the salary pyramid and the additional fees, it should also be able to demonstrate to the public that we really want to create a salary system which is transparent and therefore comprehensible on the one hand – it must be – and that on the other hand has no niches and therefore cannot be applied excessively. A modern democracy in the sixth decade of its existence is worthy of establishing a system that does not open up another gap between the citizens and their mandates. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. That's the thing. Let me make two more comments on the emotional side. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the salary pyramid: Hopefully our expectations are truly fulfilled by the salary pyramid once it is present. I have my legitimate doubts, on the basis of twenty years of experience, because I can hardly believe that all the problems for 183 Members of this House, for a third of this number of federal councils, and subsequently for all Members of the Parliament, can actually be solved with a single blow for all executive bodies. I hope so, but I do not quite believe it, and therefore we should not put our expectations too high. The second comment: Mr Stadler, because you have once again acted in this connection with the telecommunications industry, I must conclude by saying one thing with clarity: All that you say here again and again, like "driving through the area with sleigh", "tripping in", "offcassing" and so on, is suitable to arouse the envy of others who do not have the expertise, yes cannot have which you should actually have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That is why I come to the conclusion: If you really are concerned about the citizens of this Republic, if you are finally concerned about this community, I doubt that you will allow me to do so, ladies and gentlemen, if it really is about you, then I must urge you to get rid of this bulwark of envy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You won't argue!]] It is relatively easy to awaken envy, and each one of us would be able to do so. You are masters in it, I approve of it to you, but you should really distance yourself from it. If you continue with this, then there can be no real solution that half-time serves the interests of the house and at the same time is understood by the citizens. This is my appeal to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You know the proposals?]] Yeah, just because I know your suggestions, I'm appealing to you! I assume that no one in the entire Western world as a member of the government or Federal Chancellor with a net income of 60 000 s per month can actually get through the rounds. It's not possible! Once you had performed such a function, you would know that. That is why I must appeal to you and ask you to get away from this envy and to bring in some real material evidence. In fact, her proposal with the 60 000 S is not an objective contribution to solving this problem, but it simply serves to stir up emotions, but with emotions one simply cannot solve these problems. Finally, I wanted to tell you that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But everyone keeps it up with us! Everyone can live with us, from Haider to Brauneder!]] I hope that, in a few months, we will be able to discuss this problem in a reasonable manner, taking account of the principles raised, as I have pointed out, and we can also come to a half-reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13224	The next speech is by Dr. Schwimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13245	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the fifth time in a row there is no adjustment of the references, they are frozen. This is a matter of course in times like this and in view of the necessary savings packages that I will not lose another word. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: How high are your references, colleague Swimmer?]] [[Abg. Wabl: Health insurance!]] For two years, the public officials have refrained from a percentage increase in references. This is a responsible one, I would like to say almost a state policy attitude. There was a one-time payment of 2,700 S and 3,600 S for the public officials, from the head of the section to the smallest staff, no matter how high the cover is, twice – once in 1996, once in 1997, respectively. However, both regulations require a small group of staff, very hard on the part of employees, because they cannot obtain either one or the other. It is those workers who work directly for us as Members of Parliament, namely the Members of Parliament. Since the Members' entitlement to remuneration from which Parliament's employees can be paid – from this claim for compensation, a Member cannot see a single large amount personally, because this amount can only be used under the law for the payment of employees – is directly linked to the public service, there is no increase in the years 1996 and 1997. Those Members who have already fully exploited this remuneration claim for employees do not therefore have any room for any increase in the reference rate of their employees. A one-time payment as in the public service, however, they do not receive as private employees either because they do not fall under the corresponding federal law. Many Members of our House have therefore thought that this should be relatively easy to resolve. We are the legislator, we have passed the Parliament Staff Act, we have decided to freeze our earnings, we have passed the corresponding salary laws for the public service. And it looked like an agreement could be reached here. It is a good and self-sustainable tradition of this House to regulate legal issues such as these in agreement, to bring about a common attitude of all political groups. It is incomprehensible to me that this has not yet been possible. But it is even more incomprehensible to me that the Green Group, in the discussions on this matter, has curtailed its agreement with a budget for Internet and laptop purchases by 12 to 15 million schillings. [[Call the ÖVP:Pfui! Incredible!]] As this group stands out today, it is talking about poverty in Austria and refusing employees who receive small salaries, single payments of 2 700 S and 3 600 S! That's hypocrisy to potency! I can't say otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] The regulation of this one-off payment would even be possible without budget overrun. It would be covered by the budgets for Parliament's staff. For Mr. Wabl, it's just a laugh. For Mr Wabl, 2 700 s once a year do not play a role! I understand. For our employees, however, this amount plays a very good role, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Those who laugh at it have lost any right at all to talk about poverty in Austria! [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I regret that this is not the case today. I must confess, I really bow to the tradition of regulating such things only in agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] I have tabled an amendment which bears the signatures of the Members of Parliament, Swimmer, Tegischer, Karlsson, Amon, Morak, Murauer and Fekter, and it would certainly have signed many more. This amendment will not be tabled because I am very much in favour of this tradition, but I hope that this regulation will also come into effect in the course of the pending arrangements. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Because you don't trust yourself because you're afraid of the "Kronen Zeitung" and of "daily everything"!]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is the problem!]] But I say to myself personally – I can't speak for anyone else – to this: I will not agree to any other regulations unless we exercise this minimum of social justice towards our employees!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13370	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. You have a remaining speaking time of 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13405	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zwimmer! Mr. Swimmer, a member of a "moderate", "simple", "small" salary, has suddenly realized that his employees can only get a salary increase if the whole house is in agreement here. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: It's not about that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Double Moral!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP]] So far, it has been enough that the majority of governments have enforced their things. In the summer, you have made a reference law that mocks and mocks every little earner, but today you stand out here, Mr. Swimmer, who constantly swims high up on the professional and income scale, and start at the bottom of the wave of compassion! Ladies and gentlemen! You are no longer able to represent a modest increase in salary for your employees in the public, saying: The smallest party has not voted in favour! I can't pay for poor swimmer with the poverty vow in the bag! Our employees get the money, Mr. Colleague. Only you don't trust yourself! You removed the pants completely before the "Kronen-Zeitung"! That's your problem, Mr. Swimper! Shame, Mr. Swimper. You're afraid of "news", "everything daily" and the "crown newspaper"! That's why you're not able to make a decent law. Ladies and gentlemen! That's last-class! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then you come out here, help your health insurances and your thick, fat bags over and still claim that you have pity for the poor little earners! Mr. Zwimmer! Shame yourself a little for your insolence that you're showing here! Suddenly, you're pretending to need 100 percent of your consent! Mr. Schwimmer! The last-classness of your argumentation is only clear... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Why do you not agree? Why not?]] Mr Maitz. We have reached agreements. But your party is no longer able to keep agreements, because the Lord Schüssel, who is always sitting in front of the empty dish, is afraid of the "Kronen-Zeitung" and of "daily everything"! That's his problem. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But then you come out here on behalf of the Lord Khol and on behalf of the Lord Swimper and on behalf of the poor people outside and believe you can all seriously claim that the Greens are guilty of the reference law. The Greens are responsible for the poor treatment of your employees! - God forbid, Lord Maitz! You poor man with the "empty pockets"! With his double references, Mr. Schwimmer could probably stand up to all employees with ease. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But he doesn't do that because he needs so much money, so much "smear money" for this hypocrisy and this sad "sham" that you're showing here. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Why do you not agree?]] I have a good proposal for you, Mr Maitz: If you go out with Mr. Swimmer, you both count your salaries once more, then stand out here again and then I ask you: Don't get black and red in the face, but you'll be a little green! Then you would have a proper vote here. You don't have the courage! They are cowardly, immaculate, hypocritical and last-class!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13535	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats, and I ask the staff to leave the room between seats. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We first reach the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 520 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I would now like to ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to give their consent to this draft law to give a corresponding sign. – This is largely accepted. I expressly note the presence of the two-thirds majority as required by the constitution. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. Accepted. I once again expressly note the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the rescue of post and the prevention of a tariff explosion. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is done by the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 521 of the supplements. Since the present draft also contains a constitutional provision, I shall first of all establish the necessary presence of the constitutional number of Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to the draft to give an appropriate sign. – This is the unit of votes. The application was therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of your consent to the third reading, I would like to ask you once again for an appropriate sign. – This is also done with voice simplicity. The request was therefore also adopted at third reading. I shall now vote on the draft State Printing Act 1996 together with the title and receipt in 522 of the Supplements. Mr Kier and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by this request and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Kier and comrades have tabled an amendment to delete § 2 para. 2 points 3 and 4 on the content. In the event of your consent, I would like to see a sign of this kind. – This is the minority. Rejected. I therefore leave immediately on § 2 para. Paragraphs 3 and 4 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority of votes. The request was accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen, in the event of their approval, to give an appropriate sign. – This is once again the majority of votes. The request was therefore adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the Government Template (423 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Research and Testing Centre Arsenal Society with limited liability (523 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13682	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. – A voluntary time limit to 10 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13710	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Today, the infinite history of the Arsenal test centre finds its sad climax in the distribution and sham privatisation of how it is present to us today. I'd like to remind you very briefly... [[Members of the ÖVP talk in groups, Federal Minister Dr. Scholten speaks with his back to the speaker, with Abg. May. Ederer.]] [[The speaker points towards the government bank.]] Mr President. They're pretty backs, but they can't please them all!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13737	Ask for a little more attention! – Ladies and gentlemen, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13752	I would just like to remind you that the "hot iron" arsenal and the distribution has been since the XVIII. The legislative period is virulent and one has already tried to merge this so-called "Bundesjuwel Arsenal" with a marod operation – in the sense of brawls – like the research center Seibersdorf. A government template was sent to us, which is said to have been reviewed by all the relevant bodies. Its introduction states that the aim of this government template is to disburse Arsenal's audit institution and establish it as a company with limited liability for strategic and operational integration with the Austrian research centre Seibersdorf. A paragraph below which we find the sentence: Alternatives to this project: none. - So far, so good. What was actually the case? – All auditing bodies, whether it was the Public Service Union, whether it was the Chamber of Workers or whether it were independent business consultancy companies such as KPMG, from which the opinion was obtained, have opposed such a merger of these two research and testing centres. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten continues to talk to Abg. May. Ederer deepens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: All of this obviously doesn't matter to the Minister!]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Martin! Wait a minute! The Minister has no time!]] That doesn't matter. The Minister obviously has no time. I will nevertheless use my speaking time because the issue is very important to me, even if it is obviously not important enough for the Minister to listen to counter-arguments. What was actually the reason for this merger? – I mentioned it at the outset, it was the pleite of the research center Seibersdorf, which has already manifested itself in October of this year. – Mr Lukesch listens at least attentively; he will then speak about it. This pleite was written by Dr. Wilfried Schenk, Managing Director of the Research Centre Seibersdorf, from 17th century. On October 17, 1996, one must of course not lose sight of the fact that the objective is to be the merger – when he was born on 17 October 1996. The following statement was made by the colloquium on October: "Dear colleagues! Immediate reason for this change" – his release – "is the pension reform and the associated financing problems. The real reason is that I am not the appropriate manager to make the necessary fundamental changes in the research centre." And by the way, it says: "I myself, on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Science, Transport and Arts and the Research Centre Seibersdorf, will take care of the restructuring of applied research in connection with the dissemination of the Arsenal and will therefore not completely lose my Seibersdorf connection." Minister! This is almost a dangerous threat to a man who has obviously failed again in the future with similar agendas, namely the future agendas of the merger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He obviously doesn't care! Mr President. Is it not possible to call on the Minister to listen?]] The new sole managing director, Franz Leberl, immediately replied. As sole managing director, of course, he did not want to assume the sole responsibility and did so on 24 June. October, not quite six weeks ago, wrote to the workforce: "Dear colleagues! The annual accounts for 1996 will look good", he writes, but without saying in the next paragraph that the Research Centre for 1997 has defined a budget in which a deficit of over 60 million schillings threatens. Two paragraphs further read as follows: "A recalculation of pension costs by the Supervisory Board concludes that 1993/94, when calculating the costs of the existing pension statute, obviously false assumptions were made. It is reported that both the monthly pensions to be paid and the provisions required by the balance sheet are much higher than expected, namely by 124 million schilling higher." That's not enough. A further burden of the balance sheet is also in the house, because the overtime and time compensation hours have also been calculated, namely by saying and writing 180 million schillings. In total, the research centre Seibersdorf has been experiencing a substantial loss of 500 million schilling since 1993. If one could read balance sheets and if one also looked at the corresponding liability provisions, then one would actually have to go to the prosecutor to make a self-advertisement because of negligent Krida. – But one does not do that, but one merges with a functioning company – which is better in the cost structure – although all the persons involved and reviewing companies have objected to it. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] The government template states that no alternatives to this merger are possible. – This is incorrect, false and an untruth of this House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the last few weeks, a total of seven variants have been developed, such as how the arsenal could continue to act in the future. One of these variants – I agree – is the merger with the research centre Seibersdorf. However, the two institutes are not compatible companies, even if they are both called "research center". One is a classical inspection body that makes its work objectively good on the public order – I only remember research into Chernobyl and much more, groundwater samples et cetera – and the other is an industrial research centre, which is in trouble with industrial participation, where the federal government has 97 percent of the costs, although it holds only 51 percent of the shares. The rest holds the industry, but it goes to dive station when it comes to fulfilling additional obligations. These seven variants were all erased from the table, for a single reason, namely to bring about a merger as soon as possible in order to cover budget and balance-sheet needs of the research centre Seibersdorf. All seven variants were presented, detailed and presented, but were not taken into account by the red-black coalition partners. This is simply one – allow me to express it! – Unfrozenness or naughtiness, as I am hearing right now. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A cowardice!]] It is indeed true that there are enough opinions that say otherwise. For example, the acquired KPMG opinion, which was certainly not cheap – what did you finally pick it up for? Finally, in the decisive summary sentence, it says that, on the basis of this draft law, there is a significant increase in the number of discharges in the case of mergers, i.e. in the amount of a three-digit million. Why negate such advice? – In return, a legislative amendment is proposed, which makes the second step before the first. One is divided with the objective of the merger and even gives the Minister an authorisation, after examination of two credit reports – which one will quickly recover after the disbursement, in order to justify the merger scientifically, although it has long been decided – to bring about a merger in this form only. And although you have promised to test other variants too, you will not go this way. The draft law, which we are adopting today, describes the merger with Seibersdorf as the only possibility. That is why we have already fought in the Committee on Freeman Rights to extend the exodus Arsenal law by another year, in order to take the first step before the second, so as not to fall down. The first step is to first extend the Arsenal Act by another year. In the meantime, as the second step, the necessary advice is to be obtained and then, based on the well-founded results, the right course for the Arsenal test centre is to be set. This can be a merger, but it must not be, because as it looks today, it will never be the best way. Nevertheless, we do not leave anything untry and have tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] On behalf of the staff and all the auditors who have performed so far, I say once again: Overall, today's bill is immature and sloppy, it must lead to the collapse of two research centres with different order structures and should therefore be resettled for the time being. To this end, it is necessary to extend the current Arsenal Act for a year, as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13908	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Niederwieser has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13933	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to ask the President to do something in the first place. It was a bit turbulent here earlier. I do not know whether we can use "new" expressions here in the meantime, which I do not really want to use, such as those used by Mr Wabl or by Mr Graf. If that is the case, you have to tell us. I think, however, that expressions have been used, that is a style, Mr President, in view of which I would simply ask you to look at what has been said here in peace and, in any case, take the necessary measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Graf! I do not know how far you have been dealing with the Arsenal at all, because it seems to you that it was primarily a question of considering an internationally recognized, renowned research centre like Seibersdorf, which you would have to bear the responsibility for. You have called Seibersdorf a marode farm, you have called Seibersdorf a business run in the pleite. This research centre didn't deserve it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The managing director himself says that! That's what the managing director writes! What else do you call a 500 million schilling waste?- Oh, my God!]] If you were concerned about this, you would know exactly what legal obligations these figures are based on. I would have liked you to be happy if you, as the managing director of this institution, had to negotiate existing business agreements and say: Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we must delete all of this so that this case does not occur. – I wish you luck. This is, as you know, one-sided, and it is also good that it is not possible to unilaterally limit the rights of workers. On the contrary: We are also concerned with this law to ensure that workers' rights are respected. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is socialist privatisation!]] Mr Graf! You didn't get it either... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The workers also pay Chamber of Labour!]] You've just spoken, you've been talking for ten minutes: Hang on for a few minutes, you have enough speaking time! Sign up again! Mr Graf! They also said that the government was inactive and that we decided something wrong here. – I mean: If we did not decide this law today and do not take this necessary step, as it emerges from the opinion, then I would understand if you were to accuse us of inactivity or wrong action. However, since we are continuing on the road which was essentially taken from 1987 onwards, we are refusing to say that everything is either wrong or not thoroughly prepared enough. They also know that this was agreed in the Coalition Agreements in 1994 and 1995. This, if you've ever been busy with it, can't be a news that comes across you today. There are very likely reasons for this today's step, and these can also be very well summarized. These are the two largest non-university research institutions in Austria, which are renowned research institutions. However, they have partly overlapping fields of activity: Both deal with questions of geotechnology, geoscience and environmental research. Both in Arsenal and Seibersdorf, for example, one deals with electrical engineering and electronics in conjunction with measurement technology and computer science. In the Arsenal you will be very intensive in mechanical engineering, in Seibersdorf with system and technology research: These are areas in which there can be very useful links. First of all, this law is about achieving better coordination. We all know that it makes sense to keep the overhead costs at two state institutions as low as possible, at least to reduce them. We need, above all, an Austrian research institution in an appropriate range, which can also actively participate internationally or in the European research sector. This could be achieved by combining these two institutions. Mr Graf has also apparently missed the fact that we have changed the objective of how this should be achieved in the Committee. You quoted the old cover. We have, however, found a new wording which opens up several possibilities as to how this merger or cooperation should take place. I would ask you to read the Committee's report and supplement your old opinion with the corresponding new one. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Read what in § 2 para. It's four!]] It is also a question of achieving overall improved cost coverage. It is located at the Arsenal, the causes of which are not alone in the Arsenal, at around 37 percent, and at Seibersdorf, it was last over 60 percent, as I was told. A higher use of equipment is also to be achieved. One could then better coordinate the acquisition and utilization of the very expensive research and testing facilities. I think there are a number of good reasons for deciding on this arsenal law today. Of course, it is also very important that the rights of over 200 highly qualified women and men working there are fully guaranteed. My previous speaker pointed out that, for example, the union and the Chamber of Labour, in their opinions, carried out what is important for such an operational change. We have taken all of this into account in this draft law, which is to be adopted today. All these objections and proposals have been taken into account. The next steps will also involve staff representatives and works councils so that they can be kept up-to-date and can also bring in their knowledge and knowledge. We have only recently included in an amendment, which Mr Spindelegger is still being read, a suggestion from the workforce: The term "Austrian" is to be included in the term "Austrian" so that it is then called "Austrian Research and Testing Centre". For the employees of these facilities were rightly of the opinion that the term "Austrian" also conveys a quality signal. And this connotation could be beneficial to their activity. Mr Graf! If you say that this will create additional costs, I can answer you that this is investment that would have been necessary for the Arsenal. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I don't claim that's what KPMG claims!]] You really need to read through the whole thing carefully and not just take out parts! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Listen now, maybe you can understand me! I'll at least try to explain it to you. The transformation into a GmbH is the result of the fact that the labour inspectorate is also responsible. Now someone could say: That costs a lot, why should we do that? In the case of a public service, these costs would not be incurred. . Then admit here that you are against worker protection! Then you do not claim that you are in favour of improving the situation for workers in the health sector. Then you also say what you mean, and don't talk about any cost you know exactly what they're due to! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm not talking about it, KPMG is talking about it!]] The motto of the Arsenal company is: "By competence, shape the present and secure the future." This applies generally to both the Arsenal and Austrian research and technology policies. This also applies to this law, and we are confident that in this way we will make a good future for the Arsenal and Seibersdorf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14057	Mr Dr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Speech time: maximum 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14081	Mr President. High house! Mr Niederwieser said here at the speaker's desk that, because of this government proposal, there would be a different possibility from that of the merger of the Arsenal with the research centre Seibersdorf. - That's wrong. Rather, it is true that already in § 2 para. 4 of the Government template shall be recorded as follows: "The Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art is further authorized, in accordance with the terms of the Abs. 5 in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance, to transfer 100 percent of the shares of the Federal Government to the Austrian Research Centre Seibersdorf GmbH within the framework of its shareholder function." – This ensures that there is only one way for the Ministry to undertake the merger. This also draws like a red thread through the law. Whoever claims something else claims something untrue!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14111	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Riedler.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I call Mr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14145	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can connect to this conversation in an indirect way. I would like to make it clear that it is with § 2 para. 4 really has a special commitment. We have discussed in detail in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But of course this one has a high symbolic content. I would therefore like to make a motion for an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] As I have already mentioned, we had the opportunity in the Committee to discuss it in detail. In principle, the distribution of the Arsenal in its intended form is quite a matter that can make sense. It's a law transfer with imagination. The search for possible synergies with the research centre Seibersdorf can open up new perspectives. In particular, in para. 5 of § 2 is a process described how the development of business concepts should work, such as decision-making by the institutions of the two companies that have to consider the business concept should take place and so on and so on. Exclusively § 2 para. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have had a great deal of work on this subject. That's what Mr Graf has already done. At this point, a one-dimensional authorisation for the Federal Minister of Finance is now also provided for in agreement with the Federal Ministry of Science, Transport and Art, concerning the introduction of the social shares of the Arsenal Society to the Austrian Research Centre Seibersdorf GesmbH. But that only represents a single variant. I would like to say once again: If one deals with commercial transactions and the like, one realizes that this is a one-dimensional empowerment, which only provides for a very specific form of merger, namely only the one and only the one. Therefore, if all that is otherwise stated in this law and what has been said in the Committee and mentioned in the discussions is honestly meant that other types of merger may also be considered, such as the opposite direction of merger or the creation of a new legal entity, in which the meaning of the two societies is then brought in, if everything is really open – and Abs. 5 gives the appearance of openness in this question – then this empowerment is completely pointless. This can only be applied in a single case, in a case which should still be extremely unlikely if one is actually developing business concepts. With Seibersdorf, however, we have problems of a special kind, for example with pension provisions or with service law. You know very well that in Seibersdorf there has just been the square of the rights of service. There all elements of public service rights are combined with all the benefits of private law agreements. And if you make the company Seibersdorf the same as it is, as a host company, the bearer of a merger, then you will, as it were, contaminate the entire right of service in the newly created, merger-derived company. From the outset, therefore, one has the opportunity to set up reforms here and transfer staff instead of simply putting them in full legal succession. You either did not know that when you wrote it – that would be tragic enough, but I think that is not the case – or you actually intend to do exactly this merger and then carry it over to the House insofar as a white authorization has already been granted. – I mean, you can't deal with federal power! If we really want to carry out an evaluation phase in which we explain how the areas are to be divided, where research and where the testing of the stronger branch is, how all this can be brought together, then we must not do such an authorisation. This is not necessary, because there can be no doubt that when the evaluation phase expires, a corresponding authorisation for the competent Federal Minister in this House will find the majority. This is not a trembling happiness! I hope that, if the procedure takes place properly here, a majority will be given the necessary authority to the Federal Minister. The current regulation would only make sense if one assumes that some trembling compromise between the government parties is still in place, and therefore lets this empowerment write into the law now, because one fears that in two years one will no longer get it. Then it's Abs. 4 However, an expression of distrust between the government parties. It is socially and commercially unfoundable by nothing. I really remember the Committee meeting with a grueling look. We have discussed this in detail. There was no single argument there, why this paragraph. 4 is necessary. That is why your political credibility for me ultimately depends on whether you are proposing this amendment. Will give your consent or not. In this case, it is absolutely a question of credibility for me. So I really ask you: Once again, consider whether the Federal Minister really needs authorisation today so that he can do something in three years, of which we all know a little bit about Seibersdorf and the Arsenal, that it will probably not be necessary. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In the light of this, the more lovable amendment of colleagues Lukesch, Niederwieser and Spindelegger has a special facet. It was foreseen that both in the Government template and in the Committee that the distributed society should be called the Arsenal GesmbH Research and Audit Centre. Now Mr Niederweiser has told us that the workforce has explained that it is better for continuity and the psychological point of view and so on when the society is called "Austrian Research and Exam Centre Arsenal GesmbH". – I could live with this variant. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's a good idea, isn't it?]] I don't have a problem with that. I'm just telling you: Try to start a business and register with the name component "Austrian" in the trade register! Try this once! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It already represents a small market advantage if I can call myself "Austrian XY". This gives the company additional goodwill and company value. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's what it's supposed to be!]] All right, that's what it's supposed to be. If the Republic thinks that it should give its children start-up benefits, then I should be right. However, I ask you: Do you believe, if you are always planning to merge, and this is just a temporary stock, that this company would end up in the two years if it did not mean "Austrian Research and Testing Centre"? If you have the authority in the Abs. 4 for safety reasons already get quickly and then merge, then the company name is gone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Because if you make a merger by inclusion, the later society will not be called "Austrian Arsenal", but "Seibersdorf". [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: "Austrian Research Centre Seibersdorf" will be called it!]] I know what Seibersdorf means in the full text. But it is then "Seibersdorf" a name component, and this one has no good sound among decent merchants. Believe me! That's not a good name. For a company whose balance sheet is such as to make false provisions for pensions in three-digits of millions has no good will in the economy. Then one rightly doubts the management that works there. And that has always been a GesmbH and has always been subject to commercial law. One can rightly assume that the management there may understand something of some things, but not of the management of such a company. Faith You're telling me: Such a serious mistake must not happen! Now you must have the name so to speak in terms of goodwill. I could live with that, but I wouldn't have anything. I mean, that's kind of a touching gesture to the staff. One must see the officials in the Arsenal... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Take courage!]] Yes, they must be carefully used to the fact that they may now be in competition. Therefore, one wants to give them now a petting unit. I can live with this, Mr Niederweiser. I understand. Only: Do you need this for two years because you believe that the name "Arsenal" has no sound for yourself among professionals? – I can say: As a test centre, the Arsenal has a good name, whether it is called "Bundesanstalt" or "GesmbH". Because there are good people there, with a high level of qualification. As a research area – I would rather not express myself because I am polite and this evening is already advanced – it does not have such a good name. But by adding "Austrian" for two years, nothing will change because you already write the downfall of the Arsenal through the unilateral empowerment to the merger by including it in the law. Either a double ground was deliberately installed there, or one has done extremely incompetently. In any case, this alone is a reason why we do not agree with this law, although otherwise we would have liked to vote in favour of an extension and privatisation. One has either acted unjustly or incompetently, and these are two variants that we cannot give our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14268	Mr Dr. Lukesch has been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member: 10 minutes of voluntary speaking time will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14289	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me begin by saying quite clearly that the intention of this law, namely an "Austrian research and testing centre Arsenal" in the legal form of a GesmbH, is fully in line with the principles of the Austrian People's Party. It is in accordance with our principles, where the non-hospitable reservation is opposed, to choose the more flexible form of a GesmbH rather than that of a Federal Office. That is why I would like to begin by welcoming this step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This opinion is also Mr Kier. Only the liberals refuse to do so, and Mr Petrovic, too, refuses to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Hostasch was against it too!]] Nevertheless, this is a very useful step which makes sense in itself, because in the form of a GesmbH, this company is more flexible, it can work better with other institutions, and it will also be easier to exist as a test centre in the light of EU provisions, since federal institutions would be excluded from certain test orders. So this step makes sense in itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this current phase of dissemination has preceded an intense discussion, and this has so completely confused my colleague, Mr Graf. He confused some things. He referred to a provisional draft of officials, which was commented by the competent authorities, as the government template of the Federal Minister. He simply confused or did not know what was in the amendment to this government proposal. In this case, I put to you either an evil intention or an intellect, Mr Graf: You can choose it! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They even went as far as they could, a journalist of the Salzburger Nachrichten. On December 11, a rather classic duck will be celebrated by you, claiming that this breakdown is about the renovation of Seibersdorf, because Seibersdorf could then use in its balance sheet the high values of the land on which the Arsenal works, so to speak, to add up the balance sheet picture. I think the media can very well see the seriousness of your argumentation on this example and will be careful in the future to respond to FPÖ’s OTS reports with actual publications. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is now your confusion regarding § 2 para. 4 and Paragraphs 4 and 4. 5 I would like to tell you: In the explanatory remarks, there is a very clear statement of what this Section 2 para. 5 means: The different options for the future of the Arsenal are to be examined by independent examiners, both the independence of this proven research and testing centre and strategic cooperation with Seibersdorf as well as possible a merger. These alternatives are contained in the Committee's report and do not object at all to the amendment. 4 dar. It cannot be said that an overcrowded merger with Seibersdorf is now to be made to save Seibersdorf from the pleite! And I would like to say something to you, Mr Graf: Your statements are nothing but quotations from an untimely discharged director! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who will continue to be employed by your minister!]] Mr Kier rightly mentioned the disastrous management in the matter of provisions. But Their citation of an untimely released director is not enough for God to claim that Seibersdorf is advocating in an objective sense. In this way, you operate vocation damage! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This could also have civil liability consequences for you, because it is a question of compensation for reputation, company damage, credit damage and so on, so all that Mr Meischberger once threatened me in the matter of criminal charges concerning "3 million cash on hand", which has now been done. [[Vivid calls to the liberals]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] The same thing must now be done against you, Mr Graf, because the call of an institution should not be dealt with as easily as you have done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to Mr Kier's arguments, which I can quite understand. It is a first step towards privatisation today. But the options that have finally to be done are kept open. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Just not!]] Yes, on the basis of an objective evaluation of the various alternatives. I think this is a sensible process. The Seibersdorf option is actually very attractive in itself, considering that there are some critical masses in international research competition today in order to be able to apply. And if you know – Mr Niederwieser mentioned it – that there could be potential synergies in the individual areas – starting from energy technology to environmental technology, which have been called – then Seibersdorf offers itself as an option. But I am personally – and I am not doing a murderer's pit from my heart – yet it is not clear whether it would be useful to let these two institutions compete against each other in the market. I believe that this should also be understood by you, Mr Haselsteiner, that you should first consider whether the competition model, the fusion model or any other form of strategic cooperation or alliance is the better model. We want to examine this, and in the event that merger is the best form, we can still take a next step in various forms, on which the Minister is authorized, but only subject to the reservation of the paragraph. 5 in § 2. – I would like to describe this as a very sensible concept of privatisation with a certain objective, but it needs another review step. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is how climate is authorized to sell the CA!]] I would like to say something about this and also, Mr Graf, quote the cover: In this there are a number of specifications for the arsenal that sound very hard: 34 percent increase in turnover, 9 percent decrease in public contribution. But we should also recognise – and for this the Federal Minister has quite possibilities; for example, with the Federal Government's research and technology concept to be presented this month, financed by two additional billions over the next two years – that in particular this research centre would have to give it a chance to apply for the funds. That's what you should say. So there are new research funds here, and especially when it comes to technology transfer, the Arsenal is a very powerful and promising competitor for these research billions, so that I believe these requirements can be reached. I therefore believe that the ideas of Mr Graf, we wanted to merge here in order to reorganise with the land of Seibersdorf, which is ruined, are not really worthy of any consideration. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't you want to?]] I believe that we can also resolve Mr Kier's concerns by transferring this to the Minister as a useful and obvious step in the context of a conditional authorization. Mrs Petrovic said in the Committee that the independence of the Institute would be put on a disposition. – First of all, you have to explain to me why law-abiding officials are independent and free researchers in a GesmbH at once dependent! But you'll have an opportunity to do that! I believe that we are taking a real first step, and that is why the agreement of our group is taking place.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14432	Before I give the floor to the next Member, I note that the amendment previously tabled by Mr Kier has been properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. 2 minutes of time limit. - You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14459	Mr President. High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lukesch! From the speaker's point of view, Mr Lukesch said that I had made a classic duck by means of an OTS press service, which is ultimately a journalist of the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' and warned against taking the truth content of my press services seriously in the future, or stimulated to relativize. That's wrong. My OTS press service dates back to 3. It was a response to the article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 3 December 1996 at 12.28 p.m. ==References== Thus, it is impossible for my OTS press service to create a duck that has spread the "Salzburger Nachrichten", but it was rather so – if so – that I was eating a duck of the "Salzburger Nachricht" and may have taken it wrong. [[Abg. Hazelsteiner: Not a duck, but a grated chicken!]] You know this very well, Mr Lukesch, but you are spreading a lot of untruths from here in connection with this whole complex. [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14530	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. Time left: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14557	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, a rarely lively and exciting science debate, because in fact it is also very questionable in the matter, which is to be carried out here by the government parties. Federal Minister! I have only a very short speaking time, so I cannot explain everything in detail. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But there is the Wabl to blame!]] It was true what Mr Wabl at last said to you. Federal Minister! You said in the Committee that you had nothing against the opposition being given the opinion that it was based, as you call it, on the first step – I say, this de facto merger – namely the opinion of the Constitutional Service, the opinion of the FGG and the Alpine Trust. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: Yes!]] I have not received these opinions, nor do I think that the other members of the opposition have been given these basis of decision. In particular, the argument – which was claimed by the Committee to be the one of the constitutional services – that, for reasons of the fundamental right of freedom of employment, it is necessary, for reasons of the fundamental right of employment, to make this one-sided definition of the Minister, to write this unilateral authorisation in the direction of merger with Seibersdorf, seems to me, legally, to be such an abstract argument that I really doubt whether there is such an opinion, and I say at least: We, the opposition in this house, did not get the basis of decision, they were abstained from us. Second point: The merger – and de facto the merger and only the merger – is a dubious solution. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: No!]] Dubios, on the one hand, because the transactions that ultimately led to the temporary dismissal of the Seibersdorf managing director have not been clarified. And if section head Rozsenich in the Committee has literally said that Seibersdorf's pension statute is financially unfulfilled, I ask you: Why Make Now you are the arsenal to a wholly-owned daughter and are preparing the merger as the only step? Why Prepare You're proposing this only solution? Why then do you not really agree with the argument of Mr Kier, why does it not be left open? – We could also agree to just an organizational privatisation, but here we are preparing a step that we think is premature and dubious – at least at the moment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, In political terms, I fear that an independent test centre should be combined with an excellent reputation for a highly industrial-dependent research centre and that its independence to this industry should be lost. I have nothing against industrial research, which can and should also be there, but we also need inspection centres, research centres, which are exclusively public-sector, public-interest. Especially in the Causa Chernobyl the arsenal has proved itself. I also believe that the large area of genetic engineering will be such an area for which we really need independent testing sites, which perhaps should also control the Seibersdorfers and their products, their productions and research. All of this you are trying to avoid potentially, so it is also politically a dubious solution. And last but not least: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you argue with worker protection and say that those who do not agree with this solution are against the protection of workers, then I can only say that this is really a macabre and completely hypocritical argumentation. President MMag. Dr Willi Brauneder: The final sentence, please, Mrs Colleague. Member of the European Parliament. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic Mr. Deweiser! [[Continue]] If you are serious with the protection of workers in all the Federal Offices – including in the Arsenal – then you generally decide on a uniform worker protection for all Austrian workers!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14641	The next speech is by Mr Stippel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14662	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is clear to me that the opposition is particularly addressing various problems associated with that step we are taking today, but we want to adopt a law on the Arsenal rather than on Seibersdorf. What I have heard so far from the opposition was a Seibersdorf debate and beyond, a debate that was certainly not committed to putting the Austrian research centre Seibersdorf in the right light. Whoever knows Seibersdorf – I dare to make the claim that I have known it very well for two decades – knows what has been done there in more constructive and productive work by more than 500 employees. If errors in management have happened – they have obviously happened – then it is based on another level and then a step has now been taken in the most likely right direction. But here in the House, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to make Seibersdorf so bad, is something that ultimately cannot do us all good, and I would ask you to look at the matter more objectively. We want to decide on the exclusion of the former company-like Arsenal institution from the Federal Region with the objective – and I emphasize the word "targeting" – of a future stronger cooperation with Seibersdorf. This has its good reason, because we can achieve the critical size that can make us more competitive internationally for a non-university research institution in Austria. I see a great opportunity, and I also think the steps are right. It is not that, as Mr Graf said – in fact, he is no longer here at all, he is no longer interested in – that the second step is taken before the first – he has heard it – but the first step is now the transformation into a GesmbH and then – and you know that very well, Mr Graf – the competent bodies are the actants, both at the Arsenal and in Seibersdorf. [[Abg. May. Tomb enters the meeting room]] Here everything is inside – from total fusion to looser mergers – but again: In future, the competent bodies will act, which will, of course, also be responsible. [[Abg. Dr Graf: Why did you not agree to the Committee's statement that all seven possible variants would be examined?]] Because that's a crazy thing. We want a clear goal and not a splitting into seven different ways, where then nothing will happen again. See, we discussed the arsenal as early as 1993, because we knew that, in order to transform our research landscape, we should bring about a change, and have planned a period of three years to make such considerations possible, and therefore the law at 31. December of this year. What happens if we agree to your amendment? – We will extend the law by another year, and nothing will happen again for a year. And then we'll be back in a year, and you'll bring the next amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the revelation of you that you have had three years and have not examined the variants! And all the results you have so far are negative about the merger!]] That's not true. What was quoted here is not true in many cases. The fact is that in Austria, as I have said, we want a non-university research institution that achieves a critical size that is internationally competitive. In whatever form the cooperation will take place – I say it for the third and last time – the competent bodies will have to decide on it. That there are overlaps between the two institutions, where one can produce synergies, is probably not to be disputed. A strategic partnership – that is what I would call it – which is starting here can certainly only benefit our research landscape. Of course, there is an uncertainty factor in everything that is made new, but I see here a great opportunity, also for those in the Arsenal, who will also have participation rights in future design, and a chance for the research area in Austria. That is why my group will, of course, give its assent to this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14719	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member. A voluntary time limit of 6 minutes is indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14741	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous debate, it was a bit more lively, it was also a little more interest to note from the SPÖ than at the scientific debate, but I think science problems are always being discussed in a smaller context. Dr. Niederwieser defended Seibersdorf. That's not necessary. I think that a research institution like Seibersdorf will be able to put itself in the right light by its excellent own performance, and we will be happy to give it a chance. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Count said the opposite! Graf fought that!]] Mr. Lukesch has spoken of indifference and similar things. If we were unsuspecting, then only because we had the documents – as always! – get from the government coalition so late. And if everything had been as clear as you did, why did you make three amendments during the committee meeting? That could have been clear from the outset. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, you have taken the word "privatisation" into your mouth. – It is not a privatisation in the real sense, it is an organizational privatisation, and you really should stick to the right expression. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Read in the Minutes what I said!]] If Mr. Dr. Stippel says that if we extend the term of this law by one year now, we will be back in a year and nothing will have happened, I must say: That would be a very unfortunate state if we were to put ourselves under constant pressure because otherwise, if we did not limit the duration of laws, nothing would go on in this Republic and nothing would happen anymore. But on the real topic: It is undisputed that the research and development landscape in Austria must become more dynamic, and I myself have always expressed my support for the need for synergies and for cost-saving to take place. I know that there is a great deal of personal ambition in this project, at last in this area, in which some legislative periods are really being worked out for a long time, and I also understand these efforts, but according to the documents here, the discussion does not seem sufficient to me and the matter itself is not yet ready for decision. Imagine, Mrs Fekter – you are talking to Mr Lukesch – that a young businessman comes to you in the Chamber and says he wants to start a business, he wants to start a GesmbH, but he really does not know the business purpose so well, he does not know the organization and the organisational structure yet, he does not know the logistics yet, and there are no economic calculations yet. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The purpose of the company is precisely defined!]] Your chamber would send him home and tell him: If you prepare the documents, prepare a business concept, prepare economic documents, then we can talk about your business start-up. If you pay the inclusion fee, we can talk about setting up a company. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] This isn't happening here. It's quite the opposite. The improbable case occurs that, although all these documents are not present in this consequence, and although the possible variants – we know of seven possible variants of discussion – are not discussed and the decision is not yet ready for decision. Then you'll ask yourself: Why is that hurry when everything's clear anyway? In addition, the merger, the merger, is prejudicated by Arsenal and Seibersdorf in a form that is absolutely rejected. I would just like to mention once again an estimate in the room that this merger solution is at a disadvantage compared to independent solutions with an additional cost of just 212 million schilling. I believe that the most reasonable solution for all of us is the implementation of the free movement request to extend the existing law and to prepare for a disbursement from the Federal budget, with a clear corporate concept for the emerging company. In addition, I must repeat the demand that the Arsenal should be maintained as an independent, impartial testing centre with high competence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14817	The next speech is by Mrs Brinek. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14838	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Much has been said, but critical attitudes have to be corrected. To Mrs Petrovic, if you say that fusion itself is dubios, I must reject it. This lacks any argumentative basis. Critical objections were also expressed in the form that the AK and the trade union would have required time for interpretation and discussion in their opinions. Please note, too, that these statements by AK and trade union from late summer and autumn 1995 are very much interpreted, very much argued and very much improved. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Ooh!]] And if you have followed the discussion, Mr Graf, you can understand that we have improved and developed three-quarters of matter in the debate on the basis of opinions. An essential point – as well as the observatories that have taken their position – is the situation of pay and pension systems. As an employee representative, I very much understand that an important point has been made here. However, the relevance of this question is taken very well into account in the present federal law. This corresponds to the objections, but the sense lies, as I mean, in the fact that federal servants can become employees in order to become federal servants later on, or, most importantly, in the meantime, they may decide to define a different research site as an activity, to go to universities or to return to their former place of work, in order not to lose the periods of service acquired there. I see in it an attempt – albeit observant – to maintain the systems and yet to deal with them flexibly. Let us take this attempt towards freedom of choice! I would point out that, as we have enshrined in the law, I can quote it, "the representation of the staff has a continuous right of information and participation in the preparation of a business concept for the merger of the company with the ÖFZS", i.e. with Seibersdorf, in order to achieve an objective that reads as follows: "Distribution of the Arsenal and establishment as a (daughter) company with limited liability" and so on. To this end, I would also like to mention an important addition to the Committee's report: "Zu 1 (§ 2 para. 5): In any event, the company concept to be presented by the company is also intended to show variants in which the legal and economic independence of the company remains. ‘” – Read the whole text before you start yelling! One important aspect I would like to address once again in connection with objections, particularly by Mrs Petrovic. If some people have been complained that the independence of research or the independence of researchers is at risk if they are excluded from the administration, I must say: We do not have to have this fear, but the trademark "independence" or non-participative research and independent results is also an essential feature of competitiveness. And this freedom to see this independence only in connection with a hierarchical administrative system and to discriminate against or even criminalise everyone else, I cannot understand, that is not all right either. In this context, I would also like to refer to the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which deals with the subject of business, i.e. tasks and powers, and I quote paragraph 2: "In the context of the above-mentioned fields of expertise, society must in particular carry out the following tasks." And of them are four for wages and a series of tasks without remuneration. Please, Mrs Petrovic, read before being criticized! I'm coming to the end and I'm saying, When the importance of research and science is stressed in Sunday's speeches, when there is a critical need, because we are at the beginning in Austria in this respect, I think that after Sunday's speeches we need to discuss solutions in Monday's, Tuesday's, no, Wednesday's – as today's – in order to go to implementation no later than Thursday. That's a step forward! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14876	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14897	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to speak to Mr Niederweiser, but he has apparently... [[Abg. DDr. Niederweiser: Here!]] Thank you for being here and not 95 percent of the rest of the socialist mandates who stay elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Salzl: Five!]] Mr Niederweiser! They have classified Austrian research policy in a pathetic way with the parole of the Arsenal, and you know as well as we all the very small contributions our country makes to research and development, compared with other European states. You know that at 1.5 percent of GDP, we are far away in the EU area. They know or should know that Austria has a 5.6 percent share of state aid for research and development in the first place among the EU countries. Making yourself here and praising that the direction is right or – as the Arsenal Parole promises – the future has also been provided, which is already a matter of courage. It is also a matter of some courage to raise this motion, which we have discussed in the Committee, to an opposition, with a relativizing the proposal itself with an amendment, an amendment to the amendment proposal and a further amendment. It should be noted here that you changed from the 17 paragraphs immediately before the beginning of the committee to two committee statements which, in turn, question the concept of the presentation completely once again, if you offer us the alternative whether the Arsenal should exist in the future and/or in the course of an operation with Seibersdorf. You have conjured the concerns of the 200 employees – in concrete terms it is 232, as you know – and also meant that you would have taken their concerns into account on a sustainable basis – at least in these amendments. You probably know the resolution of these 230 staff in the Arsenal. And what does this resolution say? In the interests of effectiveness, economy and economy, the government proposal on the federal law should be carefully revised. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The government template has been revised!]] I have also learned, Madame, that the Government's proposal is not the actual government template, that there was a provisional official's proposal that the Government's proposal was re-examined to a government template in the evening, because we were talking about the "Austria" in detail. That is, if, without providing us with the basis of decision, you present an unexposed conglomerate here in this sequence and then expect approval, then you can only be wrong. There was also Mr Kier's in vain attempt at the committee, where, in his explanatory statement on his slightly comprehensible request, he said that it was non-economic, premature provisions which you thought were necessary for this new construction, the child born in stages. I have to give him the right, and we support the suggestion of the Arsenal's employees that one can actually put a year of work in place, because Mr Stippel has said, literally, then nothing would happen again. – Why has nothing happened in the years before, why has care not been taken in the preparation of this government template? Mr Lukesch spoke to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. There's nothing in there anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You don't understand!]] Mr Lukesch, you said there was nothing inside anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That was in relation to your speech!]] But there is so much inside that you can prove this newborn child – born as a twin – with conditions that it can never fulfil. Unforgettable! They have offered him the alternative: evil intention or indifference. I do not offer these alternatives to you, because you did not have an evil intention, Mr Lukesch. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14993	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15014	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Grollitsch, of course, has been taken care to prepare this proposal. You even confirmed that yourself. [[Abg. Mr Graf: In committee, we have insisted that the members of your group have not known anything about it.]] Mr Graf, I would like to change a few words with you anyway, but I would like to say to you, Mr Grollitsch: You yourself have pointed out that there have been a number of drafts and a development of this draft, which, of course, had the objective of improving the draft. This cannot be prohibited, and I would therefore like to make it clear a bit and to address this accusation of the Husch-Fuch procedure, but I would like to mention a few basic key facts. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The promises have not been met either!]] Since 1987, an improvement in the legal situation and the yield situation of the Arsenal Research Institute has been underway. In various opinions, it was found that a breakdown in the direction of GmbH as a non-profit organisation would be useful. However, it was then feared that, in the event of a conversion to a GmbH, such a breakdown would entail the trend of rising costs, therefore, the Arsenal Act was initially passed in October 1993 for the duration of three years – that is also the reason for our being together and our consultations today. The company-like establishment of the federal government was named "Bundesforschungs- und Prüfzentrum Arsenal", and in § 4 its partial capacity was standardized. This partial right should increase the flexibility of management, achieve better positioning on the market, and thus increase the yield position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr Graf! I'm just telling you this because you just said you didn't know anything about it. That is why I am now trying to fix this inconsistency. So it was a question of creating the cost cover, Mr President. The possibilities of partial partial jurisdiction as set out in § 4 were provided at 31. In December 1995 the following operating result – I tell you, if you do not know – was 5 824.40 S with a turnover of almost 770 000 S. The Federal Ministry of Science and the Federal Ministry of Science now expect a significant increase in operating results, Mr. Colle, from this result, despite a disappointing increase in the order status, which occurred during the course of 1996, and a possible subsequent merger with Seibersdorf, despite the higher transformation costs. [[Abg. Dr Graf: But your colleagues are telling us all the time that the merger is not yet certain! Then why are you talking about a merger?]] If you want to make an actual correction again, I will tell you once again what I have said before. I said: a possible merger. "Possible" is the essential word: I'll explain this to you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're always talking about a merger!]] As it makes sense, of course, to determine – and that is why I believe your request is going to be empty – how the Arsenal has proved itself to be a GesmbH in its distributed form, a amendment has been tabled by Mr Lucisch and Mr Niederweiser, which is also set out in the Committee's report. You probably didn't quote these because that would have led your argumentation ad absurdum. It states: "Zu 1 (§ 2, para. 5, second sentence: In any event, the company concept to be presented by the company is also intended to show variants in which the legal and economic independence of the company remains. The newly created legal person..." and so on; this has nothing to say in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then why leave this authorisation clause and the other provisions concerning Seibersdorf in it?]] It is intended to determine whether the economic independence of society remains. Now I come to the Abs, quoted by you. 4 back. You have already quoted him, so I do not need to do it again for the Minutes. The Federal Minister is hereby authorized. And now I would like to pick you up as a lawyer in her honor, Mr. Cot: You know the difference between an order and an authorization. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I know that in Austria you have had bad experiences with empowerment!]] But your actual correction wasn't business. Mr President, I should like to thank This must be seen in all clear terms! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Minister is authorized. Nor is it true what Mr Kier said, namely that only one variant and one possibility remain. He can leave it as a GmbH and then he has the opportunity to perform a merger with Seibersdorf on the condition that the business invoice is correct. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without Parliament's control, and that's what we object to!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a very good solution, because it does not make any final determination, but leaves the possibility that the most useful way of doing business and research in Austria is to be chosen, Mr President. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] You can still scream like that and still get so excited: Legally and objectively, your comment was simply wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15149	Mr Dr. Spindelegger. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15170	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consistently, everyone today has found what the real asset of the arsenal is: not the real value, not the property, but simply the employees. The employees of the Arsenal have awarded this society in the past – and they will also be distinguished in the future. I therefore believe that, if legal personality changes, it should be given particular importance from a purely market economy perspective. It is important to ensure that the imported mark is preserved in any form. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we have tabled an amendment which I would like to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15241	The request just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. However, no one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I therefore ask the honourable Members to take their seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 523 of the supplements. To this end, Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which provides for a change in the title, the withdrawal of the other provisions and the amendment of the current Arsenal Act. In addition, Deputies Dr. Lukesch, DDr. Deweiser and comrades tabled an amendment to the title of the draft law as well as to § 1 para. 1 refers. The Members of Parliament then tabled an amendment to the amendment tabled by Dr Kier and Comrades to delete § 2 para. 4 to the content. I shall first vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades. In the absence of a majority, I shall refer to the amendments tabled by Mr Dr. Lukeish, DDr. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for the above-mentioned amendment tabled by Mr Graf and Mr Comrades to give an appropriate signal. – That's the minority. The request is therefore rejected. I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Dr. Lukesch, Dr. Niederwieser and Comrades. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. I am now voting on the amendment tabled by Dr Kier and comrades, who voted for the deletion of § 2 para. 4 to the content. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is no need to vote on the amendment to the paragraph description requested. We shall immediately proceed to the vote on § 2 para. 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent here to give a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. In the event of consent, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. We are therefore immediately entering the third reading. I would ask you, in the event of your consent, to give you an appropriate sign. This also adopted the proposal at third reading. 9. Point Report of the main committee concerning the election of the chairmen of the Board of Appeal in military matters at the Federal Ministry of State Defense for the first time. January 1997 (new six-year term) of office (516 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15339	Ladies and gentlemen! We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Ofner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. – Please, honourable Member. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit will be displayed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Army Complaint Commission, as it is now called, is a parliamentary body that allows army members to complain uncomplicatedly and unbureaucratically – one could also say: illegally. The members of the army now make great use of this facility: Today, there are already about 750 such extraordinary complaints, which shows that the Federal Commission on Complaints is quite adopted by the standard addressees. It has also increased significantly in the last few years on the one hand and in efficiency on the other. Originally she was thought of by the legislator as a valve especially for presenters, today army members of all ranks and ages, from the present servant to the divisional, to the appeal commission, and these are endeavoring to help them with their right or at least to what they believe is theirs. I think it is worth mentioning that in all these years and decades since Only unanimous decisions have been taken by the Board of Appeal. At present, four of the five parliamentary parties are represented in the Board of Appeal. In the decades since it existed, there have been many thousand complaints. It has always been unanimously decided what has naturally increased the political weight of the Commission towards the military authorities, especially the Federal Minister for Defence. The Bureau and the members of the Board of Appeal now have requests to the legislator, who have been made several times to parliamentarians, but who still have their achievements. One of the most important of these wishes is that in the relevant passage of the Wehrgesetz, a formulation is chosen for the Board of Appeal, which practically does not correspond to its character, task and, above all, its situation. It is said that the Commission of Appeals has been set up by the Federal Ministry of Defence, and that is not only imprecise, if not wrong, but also leads to misconceptions in the area of defence as to what can be done with this Commission of Appeal. Representatives of the area of defence come to the idea of being able to give instructions to the Board of Appeal and to their families, because the law states that it is established at the Federal Ministry of Defence, and if an institution is established at a ministry, it will be allowed to purchase it in the context of the hierarchy of the corresponding ministry – so some say. Of course, that is not the case. The members, the Bureau, the chairmen of the Board of Appeal also successfully resist the efforts to repeatedly involve them in the military division. But they often refer to the text of the law. It is therefore our concern - I think it is very legitimate and I believe it should be brought closer to it on the next occasion of a change in the realization - to make it clear that the Commission on Appeal is not a body set up by the Federal Ministry of Defence, but rather a parliamentary control body in military matters. In fact, the Presidents of the Commission are elected to the National Council and the other members are also appointed by a parliamentary body. In order to take account of these facts and to make the constant attempts to give military instructions to the Parliamentary Board of Appeal, once and for all impossible, the Board of Appeal appeals to the House to reword this passage of the law on the next occasion. It is not "institution at the Ministry of Defence", but "parliamentary control body in military matters" that the Commission of Appeal wants to be called, ladies and gentlemen! It also includes the possibility for the chairmen of the Board of Appeal to take part in the negotiations of the National Council to attend meetings of the committees and subcommittees of the National Council, as well as the corresponding representatives of other parliamentary control bodies. The Board of Appeal wishes that a limitation provision be introduced: For today, it is theoretically possible for a basic defense servant, when he eventually retires in his civil profession and insists that he would like to open up all the residues that have accumulated in his life, to respond to a complaint to the Federal Army Complaint Commission concerning a 30-year-old incident that occurred during his basic military service. We wish that there should be a one-year limitation period. We are also in favour of introducing a so-called threshold of legal relevance. The members and the chairmen of the Board of Appeal know very well that the German army is not an association of higher daughters, but – still – a group of especially young men and that it cannot always be very successful in doing so. And so there should be a certain margin of luggage to prevent the appeal commission from being called and employed by someone who is just fading. These are the wishes which the Commission expresses to the National Council and asks for its rapid implementation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not wish to allow the opportunity to take the floor on this issue today to pass without thanking a man for his work also in the area of the Military Complaints Commission, which cannot be taken away from military matters relating to Parliament in the last decades: It is this of the MP to the National Council Walter Mondl. For more than a quarter of a century, he has been a continuous member of the Federal He forthright Complaint Commission. He has been one of the three chairmen for 12 years now. Now, as it is so beautiful, he withdraws into well-deserved retirement. His expertise, his idealism, his commitment are factors that will always be remembered in the Board of Appeal. And we will always be happy when he comes to us from outside and will continue to search for the conversation with us! [[Congratulations on the Freeman, the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] As the President-in-Office of the Federal Army Commission on Complaints, I can promise that we, the Members, will continue to make great efforts to take account of the concerns of the soldiers of all ranks and old age funds with great zeal and with the efforts of law and justice, and to fulfil our duties in the Commission in the interests of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15454	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. There is no final word from the rapporteur. If there is no objection, I leave, as there is only one election proposal, within the meaning of § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure by standing up and sitting. I would like to recall the decision of the main committee. He's on the deputies to the National Council of Ing. Tychtl, on Dr. Senekovic and on the deputies to the National Council Dr. Ofner. As no objections are raised, I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join the main committee's request to give their consent by means of a corresponding sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. The agenda is exhausted. Objection to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15503	For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Petrovic and Mr Genossen have raised written objections to the agenda for the next sitting, which was communicated in writing. The objections propose the removal of the report of the Committee on the Interior 544 of the Supplements to the Civil Service Law Novelle. Since I am not in favour of these objections, the National Council has to decide on them. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time of each member to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to three. Mr Kostelka has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15537	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. On behalf of my group, I would also like to say, in view of all the problems that a compromise poses, yes to the presentation which you will be able to vote tomorrow. I say yes, because we know the final and permanent removal of the examination of conscience from the Austrian legal system and because we also want to be sure that legal certainty will be created for young people who refuse to attend and opt for civil service. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going to be decided here tomorrow is foreseeable for weeks. The request for a debate on the motion for a resolution by the Green Group is, therefore, not understandable, because we unanimously agreed in the Bureau on the preparation of this agenda to put the civil service paper on the agenda and to finalise it tomorrow. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Their request would also lead to a very unloving consequence for young people, namely that with absolute certainty – another business opportunity no longer exists – the examination of conscience with 1. Introduced by a series of young people would be reintroduced by harmful other legal consequences. Give room to a final, reasonable arrangement and stick to what we have done in the presidency, namely to decide a final civil service legislation tomorrow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15582	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15604	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a remarkable fact in the Rules of Procedure that the person who has requested this debate can only speak in the middle of the debate and then only explain why he has put this request. That is why it is strange because we, who we speak before, first had to ask ourselves what it is going to be about. However, we have come to know each other. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, who, as we have done in committee, and who has had to experience the infinite history of civil service reform in the last few years, can only agree with this request. In this way, we would once again give ourselves the opportunity, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, to have another discussion of this misguided reform – and you have said that this should now be a final reform. In fact, they have failed to implement a fundamental reform of civil service, for example the important establishment of civil protection, civil protection through such civil service reform. Time enough, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. You yourself said that it was not only the last year that we knew that this was going to come back, but we also knew the previous year and the years before that that it was only the proposals that we had to have a new discussion and decision-making here every year. Remember the discussion last year during this interregnum, when the great coalition was in place, but the National Council in ancient composition still had to deal with this civil service reform. If we had not given the Committee's approval of both the amendments, both the request of the EIA and the request of the SPÖ, we would not have had the opportunity to adopt the law in force a year ago. Then, Mr Kostelka, it would have been possible for us to have reintroduced the Civil Service Commission from January 1996. At the time you neutralized each other, you didn't have the concerns you're presenting here today! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are going to give our approval to the motion in question is also the way in which this committee has been led. For if we had had the opportunity to discuss sufficiently and comprehensively until the end of the debate, to add all the relevant reserves and to delete some of the wrongful passage, then this request might not have been necessary. But, one of my controversies is still going to do that, not even all the words were taken into consideration and, ladies and gentlemen, the information we received from the Minister of the Interior on our questions was also very poor. I would just like to give an example. As the law provides that the Minister of the Interior may, by regulation, determine the time of service for civil servants, I asked him whether he had already adopted such a regulation and what the content of this regulation was. He answered me: That's in the Bundesgesetzblatt number anyway. You, as a Member of Parliament, should know what is in the federal law papers. That's where you can read it. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Such a thing a minister would never do!]] That would not be the case for a responsible minister, I would give you all the right, Mr Schieder. However, the Minister of the Interior, who does not follow the very principle you have postulated, has done so. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I don't believe that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we should know, according to the Minister of the Interior! I've been in the National Council since 1990. The Federal Minister therefore believes that we should know 11 000 pages of 42 000 pages of federal law. Unfortunately, he is not here today, otherwise I would have asked him what, for example, in the Federal Law No. It's 657/1995. This is a regulation by the Minister of the Interior, and I would be interested if the Minister could quote his own regulations from the Stegriff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Mrs Karlsson! If this is the way in which Parliamentarians are dealt with in committees, which are then also responsible for the decision-making, then it is only possible to give the consent of such requests, which have a reference to legislative decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15660	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15682	Mr President. High house! Three comments on this item on the agenda: a formal, a content and a personal one. Formal note: The EIA does not, of course, concern the Greens' objections to this item on the agenda. Content: Throughout the years, we have had to abolish the examination of conscience under the Civil Service Act. On the eve of this decision, the Greens want the examination of conscience and thus the Commission to come back to life. – I don't understand! On top of that, because the agenda was also set for tomorrow's day in the presidential – I also write this to the Greens in the main book. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's wrong!]] Personal Note: Mr Scheibner! The chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Elmecker, can best defend himself. Only: In my opinion, the reservation that has not been accepted has not been accepted, and I have been in the Committee on the Interior for five and a half hours, from the first minute to the last minute. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is not what Scheibner said! He complained about the Minister!]] No, no, no, He also said, among other things, in his contribution, that there had been no mention of words on civil service. Mr Haidlmayr wanted to put forward three amendments during the voting process and had to be informed by the chairman that this is not possible because of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh, that's it!]] I just don't know that colleagues are going to make their own thing. Annoys me that they claim something that is not true against better knowledge. If the Committee on the Interior carries out its work – in this matter he has done it a hundred percent – as best possible and conscientiously, then it is not for any colleague to help the other colleagues, as it were, over the head.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15744	The next item is Mr Wabl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15765	Mr President. Ladies and...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15781	Hold on, Mr. Wabl! – Mrs. Haidlmayr, if you want to talk about your place in the short debate, this is possible. If you want to get down, that's possible. As you wish. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15796	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Kostelka comes here and has the forehead to misinformation this house. That's one thing. He claims to be slightly different here, although the minutes of the Presidency state that: "The Greens and the F are opposed to putting the Civil Service Law Novelle 1996 on the agenda." – This is what the President-in-Office says here, and Mr Klubobmann goes here and claims the untruth in front of this House! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Kiss, the Grand Master in Burgenland, comes here and claims the same. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15834	Mr Wabl!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15862	Mr President. You yourself have read this Minutes, and Mr Klubobmann Kostelka says that this agenda was unanimous. This sheds a significant light on the factions that are already in the hostagery of the "Kronen-Zeitung" and of "daily everything". [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The debate was approved at the agenda item Parliament Staff Law, but not in the Civil Service Act, because that is why the "Kronen-Zeitung" has little to do with it. The "Kronen-Zeitung" is indifferent, as is Mr Kiss, and Mr Kostelka and the Social Democrats, who are fighting in a hearty way for the cause of youth and civil servants, whether there is a right of suspension for 25 000 young people, or whether the rights of Austrian young people are being trampled on in the constitutional ranks. This is indifferent to you from the Social Democracy, the main thing you have brought something over your laps with your nice partners in your well guarded, soft cuddly bed. [[Abg. Koppler: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are also right with the untruth, because your nice companion is nothing more important to you that the young people's cause is so important that you no longer want to have a conscience test that you don't want to need the small, poor, young Austrians! [[Abg. Grabner: (a red leaf like a red card) Wabl!]] But if you decide, for twelve months, that you limit constitutional rights, that you ruin the right of suspension, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be no representatives of civil servants, just because you have found a lazy compromise here – you do not talk about it, instead you are spreading here also falsehoods. [[Abg. Kiss: But go!]] [[Abg. Grabner: (renewing the red leaf in height) Wabl, look!]] Mr Commissioner, I understand. Yes, you are ashamed of your own youth organizations! I understand that even if I were a social democrat, I would have to take part in this lazy compromise, and I would have to come up with a shambles, diapers, false, egg-fading compromise. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What are you doing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have already dropped your pants here today, a second time is no longer possible!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15995	Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on tomorrow's agenda, and not on the content of the papers, Mr Jung and then Mrs Haidlmayr are speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall try to address what Mr Khol has just referred to, and perhaps to do so a little less pathetic than Mr Wabl did, because this was almost a preconceived civil service debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schwimmer.]] Well, the rating is left to you. For a newcomer in this House, who only attended five or six Committee meetings, it was actually surprising and also a bit terrifying to observe at all these meetings, especially at the meetings that have been discussed, how casually and arrogantly members of the government sometimes answer questions from Members of Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Posch: This is a debate on the agenda!]] Mr Scheibner referred to a very blatant example – even if you do not want to believe it – and it was literally played there in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Posch: This is a debate on the agenda!]] Yes, right, and this means that we can talk about whether the subject could be dealt with properly and appropriately in committee or not. And if you do not receive appropriate answers, Mr President, then you cannot discuss the subject in a factual way. And that's what it's all about – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what makes it difficult, in addition to the very, very casual, or in the specific case, even arrogant answers given by the Minister of the Interior – and he is really not the most successful one that this Republic has so far shown – what makes it difficult to hold the debates there the way they should be? [[Abg. Dr. Posch: This is a debate on the agenda! Mr President.]] It is essential that, in the last minute, applications, amendments and amendments, as we have heard today, are often introduced, which then need to be examined quickly, read through and cannot be treated with due care as they would actually deserve. Why is this being introduced in the last minute? Are you still trying to play poker with the late bringin, bluffing? Only: Poker has very little to do with seriality, and the creation of laws would actually be a question of seriality. [[Abg. Marizzi: What do you want?]] I can tell you quite clearly what I want: The errors that arise here are essentially caused by the time pressure and the resulting nervousness. And if you look into today's newspaper, you can read something that really reflects this situation and what people think about us outside: "So now, in a breathtaking finish, there are still more than two dozen laws to be whipped and strangled together, which our people's representatives over spring, summer and autumn have moved first to the long bank and then ever further away." – That is exactly what people – and in part, I must say, not quite wrong – think about our work here. In the Committee itself, only we are the sufferers of these bad working conditions, which arise when we create laws that are bad and bad-ass, which have already been improved before they leave this house – I only give you the word "work contract regulation" – then it is not just us who suffer from it, but then it is all the citizens of this Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Tomorrow is not about the contract arrangement!]] This should be borne in mind when we hold committee meetings, as was the specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16146	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why it is important to me and our Greens for the civil service law to be removed from the agenda comes from the Committee. It was as follows: I have made a request in committee to refer the Civil Service Law Novelle back to the Subcommittee in order to be able to discuss them properly once again, because there are large areas which are unclear and which I wanted to correct. Before I have tabled the request for a subcommittee, I have announced that, should it not come to this committee, I have four amendments which I would then have to make. The chairman of the Committee has put the request for a subcommittee to vote, and after this request has been voted on, I have already given my handmark, which has meant that I speak again. Mr Kiss! You couldn't see me because I couldn't see you either, we were sitting in the same row and both were hidden. I gave my handsign, and this handsign was not taken into account. I am used to speaking in committee with handsigns and not yelling into the crowd. My handsign has not been taken note of and I have not received an answer to the question raised by Mr Elmecker after the Committee meeting, why he has not let me speak, although I would have wished to make four more requests, until today. I would only like to make it clear once how the Committee has been doing. Mr President. The fact that the Civil Service Act is not on the agenda tomorrow is therefore so important because there are still many areas in which there are many gaps that cannot simply be agreed, for otherwise we will be sitting here at this time at the latest next year and deciding on a new novel to the Civil Service Act. It is important to me in the interest of young men that this time it comes to a civil service law which really keeps in the longer term and does not have to be renewed in 1997. And that is why it is very important for us and for the young men that this decision is not made tomorrow. I know it's the first time I've ever seen it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if Parliament is prepared to act in the interests of civil servants, it should be possible for this government template to be discussed and put to the vote at the end of January, at the beginning of February. This would also ensure that the time for re-introduction of conscience checks is reduced accordingly. It is really up to Parliament to take responsibility when it comes to an examination of conscience. There is no examination of conscience with this law, but this law creates inequalities within civil servants, and these inequalities are simply unconstitutional, they are not sustainable and would only mean that there would be a lot of complaints to the ECJ and to the Constitutional Court in a very short time, because this Civil Service Act, which is to be decided tomorrow, includes an blatant inequality for young men. And I do not think that can be the aim of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16228	Mr Kostelka, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kostelka, for his excellent report. – 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16252	Mr President. High house! Mrs Haidlmayr! I am reluctant to contradict you, but you have claimed that Mr Elmecker, as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, acted incorrectly because he has no longer given you the floor to submit requests. - That's wrong. They have the opportunity – in any form whatsoever – to speak – by voice, by handsigns, as well as by hand, but after the debate has been held. What is not possible in the National Council's plenary session is also not possible in committees: After the end of the debate, no more votes can take place. I ask you to understand. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was a word report!]] Nothing has happened that cannot be corrected by you. Make your requests tomorrow, and there will be a corresponding vote on them. [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Wabl: You don't determine that!]] It is not a reason for a Member who, according to the best knowledge and conscience of his duties as chairman, has done wrong here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16334	I should like to call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to comply with the provisions on the actual corrections. I call Mrs Partik-Pablé.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16359	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kostelka has said that there should be no objections to allow a reasonable civil service regime to take place. So, Mr Kostelka, I would like to tell you if this is a reasonable solution, then you should never vote on this law at all, then this law should never enter into force at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] Because what there is inadequacies, what there is to be seen – starting from the places of employment of civilian servants to their further inequality – is really bad. There is a real need to say that such a law should never at all be accepted, namely you from red and black, ladies and gentlemen, too. We are also in favour of the law not coming to the agenda tomorrow, but of a subcommittee taking place. We have also seen that Mrs Haidlmayr has made a request in committee, and she has raised her hand. Obviously the chairman did not see this, but it would really be nothing if the chairman had said: I missed that, good, we'll talk about it again. Or: Make your requests. But this size obviously did not have the chairman, but They just wanted to get over it, as you often do, even at materials that are unpleasant to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] Mr Kostelka! Why you want to know so well that Mrs Haidlmayr has not raised her hand, you have to explain that to us, because you were not in committee at all. They let it tell of someone who obviously did not see it, did not realize that someone raised his hand. So I think you should review your view here. And by the way – because you always point out that from 1. Januaryen would again enter into force of the Conscience Test – you must also see that you were the ones who have delayed this government template for so long! We have repeatedly pressed and pointed out that the date is already very good! But no, you've made it happen to the last minute – probably in the hope that you won't talk anything more about passing over, and history will be done. But this time you see that the opposition is not quite easy to do. And now, as far as the Minister's behaviour is concerned: Mr Schieder said that the Minister would never do anything like this, namely to give Members like Mr Scheibner such a more or less taste's response. But we know from very, very many meetings, from very, very many committees, how the Minister of the Interior treats the Members of Parliament, in the superficialness of his reply not only the members of the opposition, but also you. Only: It doesn't matter to you because it's already agreed somewhere you ask, because it's already agreed on what answers you get, and because you're not even curious about what the Minister really answers you, because that's just formal questions. But we, which depend on the information of a minister, are really very negative about how the Minister of the Interior treats the parliamentarians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] First of all, he speaks absolutely vaguely, immeasurably, blurredly, he now smears something there, with intent, so that he does not give any clear and clear answers at all. [[Abg. Brix: What is meant by this unqualified statement?]] [[Other calls]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] He doesn't feel obliged to give clear answers, and that's something we're holding him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] I'm coming to talk about it. In the case of Scheibner, it was really an unheard-of naughtiness that the Minister of the Interior did.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16431	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please be more reticent in terminology!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16452	He dealt with the Scheibner report as if it were a bit of a thing to ask him at all. We don't like that, and you can do that to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16491	The next speech is by Mrs Kammerlander. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16518	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Calm down again! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It is about your minister who abuses Parliament!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! Your credibility has not necessarily increased after this alleged actual correction, for one thing you have to bear in mind: Have you ever seen in a vote how my colleague Haidlmayr has voted or how she can vote as she is capable of doing so? Mr Klubobmann, I would be kind of glad if you listened, because that would contribute significantly to understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't care!]] But you obviously don't care about that, and that sheds a significant light on dealing with the disabled you have. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Disabled people are not interested in him!]] [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you had looked at it before, you would know how to lift my arm. [[Call the SPÖ: You weren't there either!]] And I admit that, and I would admit this to a chairman, that he cannot see it at once, but, interestingly, some colleagues have seen it, and I would like to point it out. It is not about her showing up later or that she was too late, but it is about her pointing out and not being seen. [[Continued calls and unrest in the hall.]] Would you calm down and listen to me now? I leave it open anyway whether Mr. Elmecker did not want to see it or did not see it, because I assume that he is still going to explain it himself, but the fact is: It wasn't seen. I would like to leave this objectively. And that alone, I think, would already be enough reason to say: These proposals have no longer been able to be tabled, it has been negotiated, the debate on these requests in the Committee has not been able to take place at all, because Mr Haidlmayr has not spoken at all. That alone would be enough – apart from all the arguments put forward by my colleagues and, above all, by Mrs Haidlmayr – for you to bear in mind that if you put this law on the agenda tomorrow and decide on it, you will have to expect a revision in a year, because in this law there are so many gaps and so many vices that you know exactly and that you also know where they are. That is why I do not understand, therefore, why we do not understand why you are keeping in mind that this must now necessarily be decided at the end of this year, although, as Mrs Haidlmayr has said, this could be dealt with at the end of January with some kind of good will. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Get over it!]] Then it would be limited in time and the damage would be so to speak small. It is, moreover, for some 25,000 young men, younger men who are still slipping in, who are likely to have to make known their consciences. These are the famous cases that were released at the time and, so to speak, had no opportunity to announce their reasons for conscience, but should do so now, after this exemption was withdrawn, for example at the post office. That would be a reason. Again: It would be possible – in case of damage limitation, in case of damage minimization – to make the end of January. Please also take into account that Mrs Haidlmayr has no longer been able to submit her proposals to the Committee, although she has been trying to bring them in, and although, as far as she can, she has spoken in good time. So much collegiality, I think, could you take note of it and say: Well, there's something that hasn't worked – even to the point where this law is a Husch-Fuch-Law; that weighs even harder – let's discuss it again, let's listen to it again before we decide there tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16624	The next speaker is Mr Elmecker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16645	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! All possible expressions have already been used: from a Husch-Puch-Law, from driving, from emphasizing and similar things more. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civil Service Act has had a long discussion, and also in the Committee there was no driving force, as it has already been mentioned here today, because we already had 15 speakers on the Civil Service Act when Mr Haidlmayr reported for the second time – which she does – and she then submitted the application for a subcommittee at the second word report. This is a motion for a Rules of Procedure, and I have said that I have yet another speech – this has been Mr Scheibner – and then I shall vote on this request for the establishment of a subcommittee. Mr Scheibner has just spoken. After that, I have said that there is no further word for it, so I shall vote on Mr Haidlmayr's request to set up a subcommittee. I say now, however, that Mrs Haidlmayr, in her first speech, has tabled an amendment which was very well placed on my table, and this amendment has actually been about what is being gathered here today, namely about these so-called old cases that we have been discussing for quite a long time. I then said, when we ended this debate, when we voted on the motion for a resolution on the subcommittee which did not find a majority, that I no longer have a word; I will therefore first vote on the amendments, which is so commonplace, first of all on the widest amendment, and that was that of Mrs Haidlmayr concerning § 17, in which these old cases were concerned. I have even explained this request – Mr Kiss is my witness. As I then explained this request – we were already in the voting process – my colleague Haidlmayr spoke and said that she has other requests that I could not allow anymore. They didn't find us! It is usually common for amendments to be submitted at least to the other groups in order to be able to deal with them. They did not appear to us, the speech was made in the voting process, and therefore I was unable to allow these requests, which I did not know at all, which I did not see. – I can’t talk about driving or anything else, but I really have to say it clearly and clearly: They're precepts. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have tried in this long, intensive debate of the Committee on the Interior and have even given a current speech at the request of the Greens. So I don't need to be accused of having a unilateral presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16690	Mrs Haidlmayr has made a statement on an actual correction. Please comply with the provisions. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16715	Mr President. It was as follows: Mr Elmecker had the request to set up a subcommittee. After the vote, his only word was: This concludes the debate, although I am so – and otherwise I can’t sit – daily eating. [[the speaker introduces how she has shown herself]] I have already announced, when I made the request to set up a subcommittee, that if this subcommittee fails, I will make four more requests.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16751	No one is reported in the word anymore. Perhaps it will be seen in the course of the study of the Minutes of this debate that all the political groups and all the speakers will be able to apply these provisions of the Rules of Procedure with a certain degree of generosity. And it is no different because, after a few sentences, one cannot see whether this refers only to the agenda or not. At any rate, this debate is now closed and we are voting. It is voted on on the Green Group's objections to the fact that the Civil Service Law Novelle 1996 is on the agenda for tomorrow's meeting. This is the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in 544 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the Green Group's objections a sign. – This is the minority. This leaves it with the proposed agenda for tomorrow's agenda. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-12-11-020-XX-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16791	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have received requests from 345/A to 349/A and from 1603/A to 1616/A. The next meeting I call for tomorrow, Thursday, 12. December, 9 a.m. The sitting will begin at Question Time. The agenda can be found in the written communication. The meeting is closed.
