ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3747	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome all of you and ask you to take the places. I'm opening the 47. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 43, 44, 45 and 46. Sessions have remained inconsistencies and have been deemed to be approved. As prevented, Mrs Preisinger has been reported. Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3784	The Federal Electoral Authority has informed the honourable Member. Schreiner and Wolfgang Jungdie were re-elected on the occasion of their posting as Members of the European Parliament. This means that representatives Josef Trenkund Hans Schöllaus leave the National Council. Because the electorate of the Deputies is Mag. Erich Schreiner and Wolfgang Jungvorgen and the mentioned people are present in the house, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the mandaters will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I should like to ask you to rise from the seats, and I would like to ask Mrs Apfelbeck to read the vow formula and call on both names.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3820	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3844	I very much welcome both colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3872	For this meeting of the National Council, the Federal Chancellery on resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselwird by Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. The Federal Minister for State Defense Dr. Fassleven is represented by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. – I would ask you to take note of this. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3901	We are now arriving at the current hour for which the following subject has been proposed: Budgetary, fiscal and tax provisions for a socially differentiated reform of family support First of all, Mr. Dr. Kier has spoken. Its speaking time shall be 10 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3931	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour, which we want to use today to discuss with the Federal Minister for Finance essential aspects of a reform in the field of family allowances, should make us aware that this is primarily a social policy task. From the point of view of the Liberals, the field of family policy is much larger than the sub-sector "family allowances". Under the title "Family Policy", we take many measures, including in the field of schooling and housing. I do not want to list this now, but rather to make it aware that family support is not the only and exclusive means of making family policy. From our point of view, family aid is primarily an instrument of social policy. It is primarily based on the fact that no child must live in poverty in our country and is not insured in its existence. What is the problem now, and why have we asked the Federal Minister for Finance for advice? – The problem is, on the one hand, the structure of the financing of this instrument and, on the other, its implications in relation to tax law and also in relation to pending procedures at the courts of public law, in particular the Constitutional Court. Let us therefore make a very important point: The family compensation fund, which is ultimately the main supporter of family allowances, is mainly financed from service providers' contributions and is therefore primarily based on pay-side costs in the classical sense. Considering the last few years, these amounts have been markedly increasing from 1993 to 1996. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate speaks to Abg. Head.]] Federal Minister! I would ask you and my fellow Members to pay attention because I believe that we should really use this current hour for an objective discussion, so I do not want to know why you are distracted. This revenue-side view of the Fund clearly shows that from 1993 to 1996 inflows under the title of "low cost" there was an increase of 35 billion schilling to almost 39 billion schilling. At the same time, however, the volume, which has increased briefly between the two – one compares in 1993 and 1996 – is only 1 billion different. In other words: The inflows under the title of additional labour costs – which means they are quite negatively workplace-effective – take up more and more space in the financing of family allowances. I'm putting this to the top because it's important to look at it. How are the expenditure elements we call family aid structured? . In 1996, the finding is that we have to expect between 32 and 33 billion schillings to flow directly from the fund in the form of family aid, and that we can expect budgetary effects over the tax deduction amounts, which amount to around 12 billion schillings. The problem is therefore clearly apparent. Mr Federal Minister, I know that this is one of your central arguments, so I focus on the feared positions of the ECJ: It is not true of horizontal justice if we introduce socially graded forms of payment, that is already wrong from the root of the funding. In fact, when it came to horizontal justice, one could not rely on the main burden of financing exclusively on additional labour costs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As far as the inflows into the funds are concerned, all other incomes in the principle pillar of financing are not taken into account. I am not putting this to the fore because it is the concern of our model, but because I know that the Federal Minister for Finance is too concerned about the constitutional conformity of a redesign aimed at social justice. Now I turn to the reform goals. Federal Minister! We have developed a model that has the following essential objectives in mind: We want social balance in financial support for children. We want a subsidiary system, i.e. we do not want to release the needy parents from their duty, but to use them to the extent that they are capable of doing so. We believe that it is an essential element of self-responsibility that, when you put children into the world, you also know what obligations you take on them. As long as these obligations can also be performed within the framework of a certain performance capacity, the parents must be taken into account for so long. However, if, due to their own economic and social situation, maintenance workers are unable to provide a permanent support for their children, solidarity is required for all, then family allowances to support children must be included. Another essential reform objective: We must not accept a reform which gives up the principle of individual taxation. To do this would be a very cheap and easy way for those fellow citizens who have adequate and high incomes to eliminate the problem entirely. This would mean, at the same time, that where social problems exist, where family income, even if you add it, still remains very small and clear, would not have any effect at all. In addition, we would have made a serious anti-emancipatory mistake. We would introduce a tax which, in the end, means: Women back to the stove! Such a model is not acceptable for this reason alone. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If one now looks at the argument about the alleged unconstitutionality of a socially balanced family aid model that focuses on the children, one can see that the root of the argumentation is our conservative right of maintenance in its philosophy from the 19th century. ==References== We simply have to understand that if we really focus on children, we cannot helplessly leave them in the situation in which they happen to be. Children are naturally helpless: They are born into a social context, which they do not choose themselves, but which their parents determine. We Liberals therefore believe that the maintenance right is the area in which reforms are necessary. We must understand that horizontal justice is primarily to be achieved through this overall system of our family policy. It is also important to note that there are orphans, for whom – and this is something the conservatives do not understand – horizontal justice does not exist at all: An orphan has nothing to do with anyone being able to put something off tax. For an orphan, no one is obliged to be entertained. In our model, however, an orphan child would be fully protected in existence – through the aid. Another advantage of our considerations, Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to comment on this, would be that – and this would be much easier administratively – we could deal with everything through the financial authorities – the basis of assessment would be the net income of the parents, which is determined by the general charge. Faith You're telling me: There are no more than two programming lines in the financial authorities' computers to deal with this model. We would also, if we reorganised the financing, allow lower wage additional costs. In other words, we could also bring in workplace-effective elements. I'm just holding this for the sake of completeness. Finally, I would like to stress that our model can be achieved with the same volume, probably even with less resources, so that we have the opportunity to redesign and discuss the benefits of our family aid. That's, I think, a benefit that shows: holistic liberalism is thinking not only of expenditure, but also of the revenue side, and is trying to find a justly balanced model. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4053	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Climate report. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4074	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I fully agree with Mr Kier – that is to say, in the title of the current hour "Familiesförderung" and not just "Familieshilfe" – that in Austria family support is well-trained in international comparison. Austria is one of the four best in the field of advanced industrialized countries in international comparison with other OECD countries – in addition to Iceland, Luxembourg and Belgium. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to the recent distribution study by the Economic Research Institute, which you know and which we have already dealt with, public services amounting to more than 10 percent of the national income – more than 200 billion schilling – in the broadest sense are family-politically motivated – and so it should remain. Family support essentially includes direct cash benefits, for example, in the form of old-age family allowances and in the form of child allowances. A brief comment, Mr Kier: It is true that almost one third of the family tax compensation fund is already financed by means of tax – capital income tax, corporate tax and an estimated income tax – and that only two thirds of these service providers are quoted by you. In the interests of fair consideration, however, it is also necessary to add the amount of the single-earner allowance, the care leave, the family allowances for low-income parents, various benefits in kind, free co-insurance of family members in health insurance, grants for children of low-income parents, consideration of child training periods in pension insurance, public funds for childcare facilities and, in the broadest sense, the free use of schools and universities, including survivors' benefits in pension insurance and family benefits. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It shows us an OECD comparison – and there is also Austria in the leading field – that a total of 17 percent of the income of an average industrial worker with two children, i.e. for a four-member family, comes out of family support, with Austria taking very strong measures as from 1992 to improve this family support. Mr Kier is quite right if he believes that this family support system must also be eligible for funding in the future. We must therefore try to further develop modern family support from a combination of money transfers, benefits and infrastructure. The consolidation measures and adjustments are also in the interests of the families, because high budget deficits have certainly returned to the burden of the families. Once we have the opportunity to provide more funding for family support, we believe that this should be targeted at where there is an urgent need, for example in the area of childcare facilities, but also in the area of support for the children of poorer families. Any retransmission within the given funding volume should not in any way lead to a departure from the principle that family support for children of poor parents must be at least as high as that for children of high income parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our reaction to a decision taken by the VfGH should in no way lead to the conclusion of a unilateral benefit and promotion of children of more income-intensive parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must respect the principle of individual taxation. It can and must not be – and this is undisputed – that the woman in the family, who is also employed, is considered tax-related to a man’s attachment and therefore only to be tax-deposit posts. That means that the principle of individual taxation is undisputed and must not be violated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We therefore have to choose from the basic direction a system which does not provide for state support for children in such a way that children of richer families are preferred. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, that would be the case if it were the recognition of a tax exemption in accordance with maintenance law or similar. I believe that there is broad agreement within the government that we do not want to take action... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't believe it!]] With colleagues Bartenstein at least... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I will show you a document; perhaps this is an internal voting problem. Mr Bartenstein has clearly stated that he is not about preferring richer families. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] There must be a clear and common position in this Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are reacting today to the fact whether a family has children or not, because we are different in providing the State's security of life through the amount of child replacement and family allowance for the two groups. This means, of course, that a family that does not have children does not receive child protection, a family with children receives child-care in the form of the child-retirement allowance and the child-aid/family allowance. It's a selected system. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Constitutional Court, however, wants a different tax rate, Mr. Minister!]] Mr President, I should like to thank If you already know what the VfGH wants, he'll be happy, because then he doesn't have to decide on it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Has he decided in 1993!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He has already decided that way in 1993 – you know that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol! I hate to respond to intermediate calls, but since I appreciate you, I do it and tell you what the VfGH decided in 1991: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm glad!]] The VfGH represented the position of differentiation between non-children's families and families with children through the system, just as the Federal Government decided unanimously in 1993 and this National Council also implemented – I hope, in the knowledge and intention that it would be constitutional. Mr Khol! I cannot imagine that you passed a law at the time and meant that it was not constitutional in any case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope that at the time we all felt that it was constitutional. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I'm talking about the system now, not amounts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, let me say the following stone and clearly: First: There should be no departure from the principle of individual taxation. Secondly, We do not want to choose a system that, in addition, promotes children of richer parents, carries out one-sided support. In times of the savings package, I do not seem to be justified. Thirdly, I warn - I am a little cautious about your proposals, Mr Kier, very much - that we are in some way interfering in the civil maintenance claim. I think this is very problematic in the discussion. In every maintenance claim procedure, civil law is applied, which I believe should be recognised. We must not limit single-parent fathers or mothers to the partner in their entitlement to maintenance. That went in the opposite direction. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that in Parliament we will continue to pursue together the line we decided almost three years ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4242	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. The speaking times in the course of the further debate shall not exceed 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4266	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The actuality of this question and this complex of questions is not only due to the "press hour" of the Federal Chancellor of last Sunday, in which he made it clear that it was his concern to think on this subject and make decisions. This has already been said several times before. First of all, it must be our objective to ensure the financial viability of existing social security and family support systems in the long term. In addition, however, we must acknowledge the need to introduce and continue reforms which adapt this system to the needs of the structurally changing society and economy. - But that didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen! I have thus quoted something that I did not invent, but what Mr. Finanzminister Lacina said in his budget speech on 9 October. In March 1995 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to dangerous substances. In the meantime almost two years have passed, a new legislative period has begun, but the reform needs mentioned here have not been answered; even approaches to the solution have not been met. Federal Minister! It is of no use to us if the Federal Chancellor fully states that this is a concern if, on the other hand, there has not even been a serious discussion about it. If it is now in motion, any reform – and we acknowledge this – that is being discussed in the direction of increased income dependence on transfers would always be in relation to the tax system. "Only the co-examination of the tax and transfer system can lead to meaningful assessments." – This too, Federal Minister for Climate, is a quote from Mr Lacina’s budget speech. We agree with that, and all of us, I believe, with regard to the different choice of words or semantics, clearly that this corresponds to the square of the circle. It is difficult to establish this co-existence, at the same time make it socially sound and in line with the Constitutional Court's knowledge and to achieve exactly what we want. Federal Minister! I would ask you once again to pay attention to our transfer model at least briefly, because you will then insist that we do not mix in it, as you believe, the promotion of poor and rich families. This is a consequence of the fact that you also operate family support through the tax system or the tax rate. We do not want an exemption which is measured by maintenance obligations or maintenance performance. That's not our intention. Of course, we want to stick to individual taxation and have never spoken the word for family division or similar models. All of this, Minister of State, is misunderstandings. But we believe that you have to exempt the tax system from family policy considerations, that we are only going one step further if we separate the two things, namely a fair tax system and family policy benefits which the state has to provide as a support for these families. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They say it themselves: The 58 billion of the family compensation fund is compared to over 200 billion schilling in the general government budget of the family policy package. So we are talking, as it were, only about a quarter of what we are talking about, namely, the family compensation fund. There are many ways – through the housing market, kindergartens, educational costs and others – how family policy effectively helps and the promotion goal can be achieved by reducing or avoiding the increasing number of families at the poverty line. Federal Minister! I still believe that we have to rethink in this area, since we have to note that the number of families at risk of poverty is increasing despite your system, because despite our record position within Europe, we have not succeeded in becoming master of this phenomenon. We would therefore ask you to initiate the said reforms. Federal Minister! I think that following the child's maintenance claim is indeed a first-class and new idea. I have often congratulated Mr Kier on the fact that this light has been given to him. I ask you not to mix this with the civil maintenance claim, but to see it from the basic point of view. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] A final sentence – if you allow it, Mr President – is: The Liberals believe that family promotion or the new system would not be fair and unfair if we did not include the assets of those concerned in the considerations. We are not talking about reintroducing the property tax, but a smart model should be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4346	I call Mrs Mertel. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4367	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I could cut my speech considerably by saying: I fully agree with the statements made by the Minister for Finance, but five minutes are five minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I'll repeat it, it's my speaking time. The SPÖ has been initiated as an initiative – I can remember – and it has initiated a study on the distribution effects, Mr Kier – you have addressed the distribution – with the motion for a resolution of 22. ==References== This study was commissioned by the Minister of Finance, was presented and recently debated here. It is the basis for reflections on further reforms, because I welcome this and say it here since 1993 – there is a need for reform and regulation especially in the family sector. I am convinced that an active distribution policy by public budgets is a social need. However, the issue of distribution may not be reduced only to groups of self-employed persons, as income from property and assets increases considerably more than labour income. We must therefore take into account the lowest incomes, because at the heart of our reflections, their children must be – and not considerations as to how children of richer families can contribute to more tax savings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite all the reforming requirements: It is to be seen in an overall view and comprehensively the services available to a family. – Mr Kier, I am right in this point, but you are only the reform of family aid in your model – if I have understood correctly. Thus, financial policy-related measures can be seen in the overall view of 200 billion schillings, and it is therefore necessary to include, in addition to fiscal measures and transfers, all social security benefits relevant to the family in the reform discussions. None – this is important for the SPÖ – one-sided orientation towards cash benefits, because the benefits in kind are an essential part of family policy and – according to Wifo study – come to the lower levels of income. A note from a budgetary point of view: There is no question of extending the funds. From my point of view, however, reform cannot be used as a synonym for the destruction and extra burden of the population, even though some object to the fact that we are in a top situation as far as the quantity of family support is concerned. Our aim must be to achieve social balance and the efficient use of resources. As far as the risk of poverty is concerned, Mr Haselsteiner, one must look at their causes, namely primarily income. We want a family policy based on employees – we only need to look at how FLAF is fed. We want the compatibility of family and profession – childcare facilities. But we also want the creation of safe jobs, including because the financing of FLAF depends on employment. I believe that changes are not to be brought about by a Ho-ruck action. The solution must be in the interests of all families, but above all of the children. The SPÖ's position has been made public in recent weeks and months. The focus of our reflections is on the children and those families who are particularly difficult and are among the weak in our country, namely single and low-income, single-parents and multi-child families. Of course – this has already been emphasized today – the principle of individual taxation has to be left untouched. Taking into account all these aspects but also the aspects of the financial viability of the measures, a future-oriented conversion should be carried out. It is therefore not a question of introducing new support, but of continuing the consolidation course, which is ultimately also in the interests of the families. It is therefore not a question of reducing the cost of the families. But this is what I want to stress – a balanced labour market policy for women and men; a labour market policy that also benefits women: through qualified part-time jobs, return aid, more flexible working hours. And this is a sufficient number of childcare facilities with needs-oriented opening hours and, of course, I don't want to hide that – of farm kindergartens. The economy is called upon to develop models for this, cooperation models that are practical.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4451	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4473	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should first look at three facts at the beginning of such a discussion. One fact: Families with several children are increasingly facing material problems in Austria. Let's look at the numbers: If there are already 100,000 families at the poverty line, I would say that this is not worthy of Austria. Fact Two: Today we have been asked whether we want the women to be pushed back to the stove. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Just say yes!]] The fact is, families with several children tend to tend to have a marriage mate stay at home. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Which one?]] Ladies and gentlemen! How else should a person who has more than two children ensure that the education and care of his children are really proper, as he imagines a family? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Fact three: Whoever is to receive such a one today as a single earner of a multichild family needs to consider how he is to get out of about three children with a family income. On the basis of these facts, I believe that we must develop an instrument. And in our view, this instrument differs from your instruments. For we do not see family policy as part of social policy. We see family policy as a balance between those who have children and those who do not have children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the way it is!]] Our model is therefore: There should be a minimum tax-free living for each member of the family. I believe that this would be a very fair horizontal compensation, as the Constitutional Court also pointed out in its previous knowledge, but also – as we hear – in its future knowledge. Everything else – and I say so – would also be a breach of our constitution, which we do not agree with. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to get something out of the study you always quote yourself. They say: Today's system prefers the rich. I would like to quote from this study of the Wifo, which clearly shows that there is actually this vertical compensation that you want to have. It says in this study: The upper income third of the total population is paid 68.7 percent in the family tax compensation fund, but only 42 percent of the benefits of the family tax compensation fund are allocated to this group. If I look at the bottom three of my income, you can see: 5.6 percent of payments in the family compensation funds, 18.6 percent of payments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – This is a vertical compensation, ladies and gentlemen, you have it today... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: And what is the conclusion?]] I come to my conclusion, Mr Novotny, I hope you can be patient. Our answer to this is: In the future, we want a horizontal balance, which provides a minimum of existence for each member of the family, because we believe that this would be the most appropriate way to match the tax justice of families within the meaning of the constitutional situation. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There exists! He's here according to study!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to conclude by saying: When we look at the possibilities realistically, we know that in a next tax reform we can achieve few but targeted points of a reorganisation. For us from the Austrian People's Party, the point is that we come to equal opportunities, to distribution justice in the form we want it, with the minimum of existence for each member of the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, anything else would mean giving the families a lot. – And for that I am not to have!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4599	I call Mrs Edith Haller. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4624	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is important because 70 percent of Austrians see an intact family life as their personal goal. It is also very important for the economy, because healthy families ensure economic success and social stability. If, as has been said today, the Minister of Finance is advocating that we have an effective family support system in Austria, I already have the question: Why is family poverty increasingly no longer a marginal problem? In particular, child families and single parents are increasingly affected. In addition, the impact of the savings packages will be brought about by a 20% reduction in performance. It is also striking that the income disparities between children and children have increased recently. This means that the dual system of family support, as we have in Austria, is no longer intact. This has already been decided by the Supreme Court in 1991, and a decision in this direction is now under way again. I say the following to you: We liberals will not be a partner for you – for no one here in the House – when it comes to further restrictions on family benefits! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In contrast, we liberals stand for a fiscal and social appreciation of the family. As it seems to me, we are really the only real representatives of family interests. I now come to the debate on social justice and the financial sustainability of transfers to speak today. I would like to present a mirror to the ÖVP and also to the Minister of Finance by a statement by former Minister of Finance Dr Schmitz. He said: The current debate on social justice and the financial sustainability of equal transfers for all family owners has resulted in the fact that it has been pushed from the logic of the tax state into the otherwise oriented logic of the welfare state. - Quote. The Minister of Finance has tried again today to document exactly that. In the case of a dual system, it would be logical, above all, to establish fiscal justice and to eliminate the blatant discrimination against family owners through fiscal justice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is quite clear that this is not possible by means of tax alone. That's why we've had a dual system – and we still have it. We liberals force and remain with our family tax division model, because this is also considered by professionals as a very suitable measure for the production of tax justice. Mr Bartenstein also called our model very taxable. If the Minister for Finance and also my predecessors of individual taxation speak and call them a tribute to women, I can only say: That's ghastly and false! This can be at most a tribute to childless women. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you talk about family support in relation to tax justice, then this is simply absurd, Mr. Finanzminister, because the removal of property cannot be promotion – even in Austria! Even if you want to give us that again and again. In our family tax system, of course, the transfer benefits – family allowance and the amount of children's allowance – are included, which is also just a transfer benefit, so you automatically have a social discount. However, we also want to: the expansion of the multi-children's rating; the childcare check, the other transfer services, previous transfers such as emergency aid, karenz money – I'm about to finish –, weekly assistance and the like included in the income tax and subsumed. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] The condition for tax justice is, of course, a minimum tax-free existence to which we stand.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4712	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4727	In order to finance the measures we call for, of course, a reorganisation of the family compensation fund is necessary. This has been demanded by us for many years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4758	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4779	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Some of my previous speakers have here been very clearly conjured of the family that is to be promoted and preserved. I would like to oppose the fact that it has often been precisely the social and economic circumstances that have led to the fact that in recent decades this "heal family" – under quotation marks – no longer exists, but that families, especially families with children, are subjected to a very high pressure – not only in a material way, but also when it comes, for example, to spending time with the children to experience something with the children. That's the problem. This brings me to points of family support that you have not yet mentioned, including working time models that allow this. It is also a right to child care, because we here in the House have the obligation to organize childcare for these persons. It is also about the fact that single mothers and fathers are prevented from staying with their children, for example, because they are able to do part-time work "only" under quotation marks. – These are the circumstances that often cause families to be very upset, that we really have problems in family policy today, which cannot be cleared alone with a little more money. I think it is necessary to provide family support and family support at a material level. I think it is important to increase the amount of money. I agree with the Liberal Forum and with some of my previous speakers on the fact that tax law is to be separated from family policy. That is the background before which we are discussing this in view of the forthcoming recognition of the Constitutional Court. But I have a problem when I look at the family model of the Liberal Forum – at least what I know – which is a savings model, a savings package model. I have a problem with the fact that family support is linked to the right of maintenance; there have already been some arguments. This, of course, tends to increase the trend, I think, that the legislator or the Constitutional Court combines this maintenance obligation with tax-based benefits for operators. – This is the real situation we have to deal with! And I do not think that it is possible – I am meeting you again – that under the pretext of promoting families here, we are introducing tax exemptions, which will make up for even more money than is the case with existing models, for those who actually have a lot of money. I have a problem with the fact that family support is bound to maintenance law. I'd suggest: Let us finally work on the contribution side when it comes to the balance of family expenses, justice! Let us see that the situation is still such that officials, self-employed, tradesmen, but also politicians do not put up with a large amount in the family compensation fund. In part, like the officials, they do not receive the full benefits from it – that is clear to me – but in part. I think it would be necessary to make a contribution right here! I have already stressed this several times to the Minister for Finance. Why should it not be possible for other groups, who also benefit from benefits, to actually pay in the family compensation funds? It cannot be said that mayor Häupl – who obviously does not know that he is not paying in the family compensation fund – simply says: In my income situation, I can already afford to give up my schoolbooks! – I would rather that mayor Häupl – as well as all other politicians – pay once in the family compensation fund. I wish I did! I would like you to take a little more into account the real situation in which families actually exist. I would like us to discuss, not a minimum tax-free living, but a basic guarantee for children and families. And a basic guarantee must include more than just the money, which is too low – that is to say, Mr. Finanzminister – and has already been shortened by the Mother-Child-Bonus. That was a reduction in real political terms. We want a right to childcare, just as we want a state obligation to organize this childcare. It is intended to leave the State to rest on taxes and family transfers as far as possible. It is intended to create the same conditions for all and not try to make deficits at the expense of families and without discussion over the far-reaching aspects, such as, for example, working hours,...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4827	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4843	... like, for example, the unemployment situation, the situation of single-parents. That would be real family promotion!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4872	Mrs Klara Motter has the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4896	Minister! High house! Mr Spindelegger, it is not right for you to interpret our statements as if we saw family policy as a purely social policy. That's not true! We are also committed to family policy, we are also committed to the 200 billion schilling, which are spent, for example, on childcare facilities, health care, education and so on. However, as far as the cash that families receive is concerned, we confess to a real socialised support. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, Austria is the 9th richest country in the world. Nevertheless, according to surveys and latest data in the so-called rich country of Austria, 270 000 children are at risk of poverty. In my view, these data are incomprehensible, if you know that Austria has a uniquely high level of family support internationally, because an indirect funding of 10 per cent of the national income is redistributed to the families in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the reason for this risk of poverty becomes clearer if one is to be informed about the distribution of the funds from the burden compensation. Because 18 billion schilling goes to families with higher or high incomes, and only 5.6 billion schilling to the less well deserved. This is caused by various factors, such as the high wage differences, the lack of minimum insurance, such as for the unemployed, and the low female employment rate, which in turn is due to a serious, well-known lack of childcare facilities and part-time jobs. Mrs Mertel – she is not here – I am fully in agreement with you! This situation is limited by the transfer services currently in place, as the horizontal load balance is dominated by the needy. Minister! These are facts, and I think that these problems should be solved in the first place. And what does this look like in practice? – Family promotion is disproportionately high to improved families. For example, one third of households with the highest income use 43 percent of benefits. The self-employed also benefit disproportionately from family promotion, i.e. 13.5 percent. Families with children received 15.5 percent of support. This difference between 13.5 percent and 15.5 percent should be reconsidered. The worst is the lowest third of the low-income hazards, which receive only 10 percent of the total benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Returning to two factors is the high share of support for better-earning households: First, there are above average families with children in this group. And that's a good thing. Secondly, the children from these families go to the universities, which also means that the benefits are paid longer. – What we would be doing again in the field of education, where there is no equal opportunities to date, although visiting educational institutions is free for all children. Furthermore, according to Wifo study, 49.5% or 21 billion schilling of all educational expenditure benefits that third of households with the highest income. The middle class benefits with 35.2 percent or 16 billion schilling. The poorest third is only 15.3 percent or 7 billion schilling. But also in the field of higher education there is a massive redistribution among the good-earners. In particular, students from the top levels of income are strongly represented, so that a quarter of higher education expenditure is attributable to the top 10 percent of income distribution. We know the study "Or poor, rich – for everyone alike", and it is clear from this study by the trade union of private workers that family policy services are not socially balanced and therefore that the practice of the principle of foundry can no longer be maintained in the field of family support. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of these facts, which are evidenced by studies and investigations, we consider our Tansfer model to be a target. That means: To say goodbye to the principle of the principle of foundry and, instead of disbursing state aid to all, to pay transfers only after financial performance in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4964	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4985	Mr President. Minister! High house! We are not talking today about how to shorten existing benefits, but we are all trying to achieve greater justice in the system. The problem is that under justice everyone obviously understands something else. We have already talked about the expected knowledge of the Constitutional Court. In any case, it should not be the result that richer families are granted higher maintenance benefits and can then take them into account through allowances. The result is that richer families have higher amounts of allowances and through progression an additional advantage, resulting in a huge redistribution from the bottom to the top. Dr. Spindelegger! If you follow your argument, you have to say: It poses this danger absolutely. In any case, we Social Democrats want every child, aged and number of children, to be equally valued by the state that there is no differentiation. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There has been this distribution study, which clearly proves that the horizontal distribution, i.e. the distribution between childless families and families with several children in the same income hierarchy, works absolutely. It works mainly because there is co-insurance. However, this study also shows that there are problems in the vertical redistribution in particular, that there must be more redistribution from top to bottom. If we are talking about social staggering of transfers, we need to take some account of them. First: What incomes are to be covered? It is also certain that interest rates and dividends will be included, which is currently not possible because of the system of final taxation. That's where the system is changed. Second point: Of course, the assets must also be taken into account and not just incomes. Third point: We want to stay with the system of individual taxation. There must be no approximation to fiscal taxation – precisely for the reasons mentioned above. Fourth point: If we consider where social staggering begins, we must take account of the fact that those taxpayers who earn between 20 000 and 50 000 s are in any case subject to the general deduction and the reduction of special expenditure. There will be no additional deletions in this area. That means: If one starts behind this category of income, one must know that what is to be distributed is relatively small – although this measure would be absolutely useful. The last question is – fifth: How to address the concerns of the Constitutional Court regarding the constitutional conformity of family support? – By taking into account the horizontal distribution as well. Ladies and gentlemen! However, in every discussion on distribution issues, I would also like to take account of the fact that there are quite different problems in the distribution process from those we are discussing here. If we believe that the social state does not belong to, but is dismantled – President Maderthaner: the first day of the sick is to be a holiday! – If we believe that flexibility of working time can only go to the burden of workers and there is no collective contractual protection, if we believe that our competitiveness can only be achieved through a wage ban, then the distribution discussion will go in the absolutely wrong direction. Ladies and gentlemen! A last comment on the Liberal Forum and on the statements made by Mr Kier: In essence, this proposal also leads to basic safeguards. There is absolutely no serious discussion about basic security. Only: A paper from the LIF can be found – I read this –: Basic security can be a way out of the threatening two-thirds society. – May be right, too. I just do not want to assume that you have already given up the fight against the two-thirds society.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5039	Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5055	We must fight with the same intensity against this two-thirds society, otherwise this society will not be able to afford basic income either.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5085	Mrs Horngacher has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5106	Mr President. Minister! High house! The first objective of every policy must be to create fair living conditions for people in the state. The most important part of a people is its children, because these are its future. All measures must therefore be carefully considered from this point of view. In Austria, the number of children is falling steadily. Families with several children are at risk of poverty, as shown by the following example: When both parents pursue a profession and have a child, two merits are divided into three persons. If now there are four children in a family, then of course the mother will care for these children himself, then six persons live on a merit. – Every child is of equal value – only the costs are others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we need a horizontal distribution between the families with several children and those who do not have children. We need a tax exemption of the minimum of living for all persons to be provided in the household, but, in particular, low-earners, this minimum of existence must be paid as a kind of special benefit. There are enough families in which this tax exemption does not take effect. This is now to be achieved through a bundle of measures. In a time of de-olidarization and egoism, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the weakest of society are not too short. If we wanted to improve families, then there would finally be equal opportunities, namely, insofar as those mothers who want to care for their children themselves can do so. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Support check! Question mark?]] I believe it is very valuable for a mother to care for her children, especially in the early years. I always feel sorry for those young mothers who already have to put their children in a care centre in the morning, then pick them up after working time and get home tired. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Fathers don't hurt you? Why don't the fathers do it?]] I didn't have that stress, I was able to stay at home with my children. And it's 70 percent of the parents who want to do that after a study. And you should leave it to the parents what they want to do. We should, however, offer equal opportunities. It is therefore necessary to improve the opportunities for women to get back into work after this child break. Today, our young girls have learned a good profession and want to practice it. If the Liberal Forum believes that service providers did not need these benefits, such as family allowances and the like, I must say: There are redistributions in other ways. 25 percent earn more than 30 000 S and pay 75 percent of our tax revenue. To the server: In my neighborhood, a school director lives, and I'd be one of the ministers in our area. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Does he deserve as much as you do?]] He's got five children, four of them. It does not, of course, receive a study grant; it now also has to pay the travel costs for the children to the university city. Faith You're telling me: This family must also be very saved, for seven people must live on a salary. I believe that we also need families with several children and that they must be particularly promoted because they are important to society and a stable element. However, I would also like to remind you that children are often seen only as a burden in these debates, but children also mean life-filling and joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5177	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5201	Mr President. High house! Given the figures already mentioned today – 100 000 families live below the poverty line, another 50,000 to 70 000 families live hard at the poverty line, and every day more families slide below the poverty line, due to the lack of red and black policies – and in view of these facts, a rapid departure from the current anti-family tax system should be a concern of all parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the ÖVP I already have a turnaround in their way of thinking. It is absolutely unreasonable and unconstitutional that all incomes are taxed equally in Austria, regardless of how many people have to live in a family of incomes. That must be changed. It is precisely this tax system, which is proven to contribute to increasing the risk of poverty in the case of multiple families, in the case of single parents, in the case of single earners. We liberals, together with family and tax experts, have already developed a family tax division in 1994 to be implemented a model that would really be worth it. With this family tax division model, the constant demand for the creation of a minimum tax-free living for all family members – whether they have an income or not – would be realized. Ladies and gentlemen! How does this liberal model work? – First, the whole family income, including all state transfers, is calculated. This sum is divided by the tax division factor, on the shared income the corresponding tax is calculated and prescribed. With this liberal model, the minimum of existence determined by the Institute of Empirical Social Research remains tax-free, i.e. it remains a minimum of tax-free living for each member of the family, whether it relates to income or not. In addition, all public transfers are socially and thus fairly staged. The following is added: This tax division model would accordingly mitigate the absurd impact of the cold progression by which the Minister of Finance will have some 50 billion shillings of surplus income from 1998 onwards. But from the left side of this house, the rejection of this model came just too reflective. Women's hostility, women's-back-to-herd humanity, has been subject to this model. But anyone who claims this has not read – or did not understand – this liberal model. This liberal tax division model means only one option, a choice between individual taxation or family division – and no forced happiness à la Sozialdemocracy! I cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, especially those from the left of this House, that there is only one woman who feels disadvantaged when the family net income increases. I really can't imagine that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] Especially at a time when women are forced to stay at home because of rising unemployment – and unfortunately it affects women in particular – I cannot imagine that a higher net income in the family would harm women. Now to the allegation that our model has too much bureaucracy: That too is incorrect! In the context of income tax negotiations, but also in the context of employee negotiations, it is without a doubt possible to request only by checking a casterl plus two signatures of this family division model. Even the accusation of the redistribution from bottom to top is not true! [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, that's right!]] The model of us liberals provides a cover. Only up to a certain amount of income can this splitting model be applied. For small and micro-incomes, a negative tax is provided for in this model. Summary: The free family tax division model would ensure the tax exemption for the minimum of living for all family members, increase the net income of families, and it corresponds to the notions of the Constitutional Court. Other advantages: It includes a social and fair staggering of transfers, is easy to implement and creates the option of choosing between individual taxation and family division for the powerful tax citizen in Austria. This is in the sense of a just family policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5264	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I welcome our guest to the loge, President of the Palestinian People's Council, Mr Ahmed Korei Abu Ala, who, with his delegation, is visiting Austria for an official visit. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Petrovic has now come to speak as the last speaker in the current hour. We shall then proceed to the agenda. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5294	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There have now been appropriate portions of a truly partially ultraconservative ideology. What I always regret is the fact that the suggestions for such debates always come from the Liberals. And that's a fact I really can't really understand. The biggest manko in family support is that we have a family promotion and no child promotion, no youth promotion, no promotion of individuals who need social solidarity. The term "family promotion" and what you have made of it by introducing deteriorations in the field of child benefits in the field of care schemes and deteriorations, is an expression of that ideology, which reduces individual people in its meaning, strengthens patriarchal dependence and turns away from a modern social law principle in which we ask which person needs social solidarity. It is not families poor or rich, it does not have families a high income or a high wealth, and it also does not study families, but usually it is men in families who are rich in wealth, and they are children who study. But by this gay term "family" everything is thrown into a pot, and one has too much and the other gets too little. That is the expression of this ideological structure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is it always just an suppression of young people? Why should they always get something depending on their parents' income – or not? Is it not true that virtually all students cannot have their own income? Is it not true that most students – if at all – can only take on poorly paid jobs? They are therefore worthy of funding. We should be interested in the fact that as many young people as possible receive good training. Mrs Motter! It is not appropriate for free access to higher education to be redistributed from bottom to top. The opposite is the case! I would then like to give you the detailed documentation. Ladies and gentlemen! Who would have the idea of making an old person disputed the compensation allowance just because he or she has well-earned children? Who would have the idea of making the care allowance disputed to a disabled person just because he or she has relatively well-off relatives? – Only: But with the children you come to this idea. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government is coming up with this idea!]] Yeah, the government's coming up with some bad idea. – Children always say: Can the family afford this or not? – Ladies and gentlemen! The children cannot afford to give you any solidarity. It is not the Lord's father or the mother's mother who needs solidarity first and foremost, but the children need it. Therefore, approaches such as those of the liberals, in which the income of biological parents is combined, are ultimately patriarchal models. These models mean a socio-political downturn, because they are based on the maintenance obligation which we should ultimately call into question. Rather, we should be committed to an independent demand for young people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] Young people, Mrs. Mother, are discriminated against. We should promote them – and not their parents. Justice can only be achieved through the tax system. Such applications are a fig leaf for the fact that we have a very unfair taxation. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we need an ecologisation in the tax system, and secondly, we finally need a fair taxation of the really rapid, explosively growing incomes; that is, I do not mean the small savings book, so that I do not mean the self-inhabited dwelling or the small agricultural property, but thus I mean the large, speculative capitals which are extremely privileged in Austria – also vis-à-vis neighboring abroad. There you should have justice exercised – and not through a combination of people in a very nebulous family concept. The best family promotion is the promotion of individual people, especially young people, who are still in training – and not privileges to well-earned men.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5352	That's what I'm going to tell you about the current hour. I thank the Minister for Finance. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5373	I should like to refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5584	As far as today's agenda is concerned, the debate on points 1 to 9, 11 and 12, 13 and 14, 15 to 19 and 20 to 27 is proposed. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5609	Let's go into the agenda. In the Presidential Conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed for all debates, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. In addition, it was agreed that a speaking time of no more than 4 "Vienna hours" should be used for the judicial documents of all political groups. We have also achieved consensus in the Presidential Conference on this proposal. We shall vote in the form that I shall ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. It is then decided unanimously, and we shall proceed in this way. 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (33 of the Supplements): Convention on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the on application 79/A by Dr Harald Ofner and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Criminal Procedure in 1975, on application 80/A by Dr Liane Höbinger-Lehrerand Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Criminal Procedure in 1975, on motion 153/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fektenrond Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code; and on motion 282/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fektenrond Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Criminal Code and the General Civil Code (409 of Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (317 of the Supplements): Criminal Enforcement Novelties 1996 (410 of Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 1/A by Dr Willi Fuhrmannand Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Criminal Code (452) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 2/A by Mr Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (453) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment No 11/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (454) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 300/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fektenrund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code 1974 (455 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Justice Committee on the Citizens' Initiative No. 3 on the legal and social equality of homosexuals (456) 8. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (253 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure (408 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (373 of the Supplements): 4. Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna (451 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5801	We now come to points 1 to 9 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Legal Affairs Committee on the Government Template on the Criminal Change Act 1996, motion 79/A of Deputies Dr. Ofner and comrades, motion 80/A by Dr Höbinger-Lehrer and Comrades, and motion 153/A by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Fekter and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Criminal Code and motion 282/A by Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Fekter and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code and the General Civil Code (409 of the Supplements), further on the Government document 317 of the Supplements: Criminal Enforcement Act 1996, motion 1/A of Deputies Dr. Mr Fuhrmann and Mr Comrades, motion 2/A by Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades, motion 11/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades and motion 300/A by Dr. Fekter and Comrades, all concerning a federal law amending the criminal law, further on the citizens' initiative No. 3 on the legal and social equality of homosexuals in 456 of the supplements and the Government template: The Federal Act, which amends the Law of the Court of Justice, the Civil Procedure and the Criminal Procedure, into 408 of the Supplements, and finally the Government Template 373 of the Supplements: 4. Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna in 451 of the Supplements. Are there any proposals for oral reports? - That's not the case. In this way, oral reporting on these points is not sufficient. The speaking times are known. First speaker is Mrs Dr. Fekter. I was asked to set a voluntary speaking time of 12 minutes. Is that right? - Good. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5838	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The Criminal Change Act 1996 had several years in advance until its adoption, and it was also preceded by intensive parliamentary treatment in its own subcommittee. For us from the Austrian People's Party, criminal law is of particular importance because it sets out, on the one hand, the order of values of a society and, at the same time, the priorities of these values and, on the other, the prevention of, that is, preventive offences. I would like to say to the order of values: We cannot constantly regret that we have a loss of values in society, but at the same time we want to permanently undermine and undermine the order that determines these values. We therefore did not agree in committee to the Liberals' requests for the abolition of blasphemy. For us, blasphemy is something that must also remain punishable in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The expression of the order of values is also those paragraphs that regulate homosexuality in Austria, and we have also not given the Committee's approval because we believe that the protection of young people is clearly in the foreground and is a priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I attach particular importance to the preventive character of the criminal law – to all the paragraphs we create to combat organised crime. We have reintroduced the depleting of the enrichment. As you know, international efforts are being made to get rid of drug money. We have also created a redefinition of organised crime. And I am very grateful to the Ministry of Justice for this, as I think, very successful legal definition, which we need not only in the Criminal Code for the Exploitation of Enrichment, but also in the new methods of investigation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that organised crime was introduced in 1993 unfortunately did not take the form of what we wanted, and now a new definition has been found that will certainly be achieved internationally, because there is no such legal definition in other countries. Austria has a pioneering role to play. I very much regret that we have not finished the negotiations on the new investigation methods in time, I would have liked us to be able to adopt them at the same time as the new criminal law amendment legislation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I am confident that we will be able to complete the work on the introduction of new methods of investigation in the spring, so that we can effectively face the organised crime. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the implementation of the Basel Convention, environmental offences are also found in the STREG 1996 – in particular intentional environmentally harmful treatment and disposal of waste – and the illegal operation of installations in Austria is punishable in the future, including under criminal law, not only in accordance with administrative criminal law. As far as I am concerned, however, I do not wish to hide the fact that the Basler Convention for Austria, in so far as the Basel Convention has not been signed by all the nations and therefore there is no equal treatment of the same acts within the European Single Market. Our values justify environmental penalties. However, I would ask you, Mr Minister, to insist that similar laws apply as soon as possible throughout Europe, so as not to continue to be treated differently in the event of cross-border activities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I attach great importance to enlargement with regard to the preventive effect of criminal provisions, to all the acts we have now incorporated into the law in order to combat violence in the family, child pornography and sex tourism, because, unfortunately, since the summer, the sexual exploitation of children in Belgium - as we have seen in the case of child pornography - has gained momentum in Europe also in Austria. I welcome the fact that we have raised the criminal provisions in this respect. I also welcome the fact that we have introduced new sanctions, in particular those relating to sex tourism with minors abroad. Even in the case of violence in the family, we are clearly on the side of the victim! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the help of the newly created right of way, we can now point out to the perpetrator of violence from the common apartment. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: On the matter! This is part of the agenda item 10! Now we're talking to points 1 to 9!]] Mrs Schmidt! Let me point out. I am convinced that Mr Ofner will also comment on the right of directions in his speech, because it is also about the conflict between the protection of property and the protection from violence. However, we from the EIA are on the side of the victim, Mrs Colleague, and for this reason I welcome the right of directions. Mrs Schmidt! Because you say "to the cause": [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: On the matter! That's agenda item 10!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Let me say two more sentences to the homosexual paragraphs. I hope that reason will prevail here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not on the agenda at all!]] The Committee has not received a majority of the requests. There may be similar voting conditions here in plenary. This would mean, however, that the legal situation remained the same as it is now. However, I believe that our request would improve the current legal situation. That is to say, I am seeking the left half of this House to consider carefully whether it really wants the legal situation to remain the same as it is. If she does not want to, she may give our request our consent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that, in the course of the criminal debate, the criminal relations between property criminals and violent offences were also addressed. I say clearly and clearly here that, for the EIAs, we believe that our values are not being punished too high at present. For us from the ÖVP, it is important to keep mine and yours apart. We do not want to make Austria a kind of self-service shop, and in the case of property offences we cannot speak of a self-service philosophy. That is why I strongly oppose reducing the level of punishment for property crimes. I can very well imagine, however, that in the case of certain violent offences, an increase might be justified. In this context, however, I would also like to know about the proportionality of our administrative criminal law. I would also like to check whether our administrative criminal law is in conformity with human rights at all. For, in particular, the review of administrative penalties by independent courts is not really guaranteed in Austria as long as it is possible for judges of the independent administrative Senate to correct and decommission decisions of the administrative authorities. I therefore hope that we will discuss this area of criminal law as a whole in its proportionality. As the last point, I would like to explain the ÖVP holding on the novel to the District Court Organization Act. We confess to the full jurisdiction and welcome the in-depth reorganisation in Vienna. However, the commercial court is fully accepted in its current form of organisation – it is also the first instance in Riemergasse – and has high expertise, so we do not want to change this form of organisation in the future. The current novelle creates a new district court organisation in Vienna – except for the commercial court in Riemergasse and the youth jurisdiction. The regional court organisation in the countries is not under debate today. I hope that solutions can be agreed with the federal states before we re-debate this matter here in the House. The internal revision in the execution of the sentence has been achieved through the events in Karlau's topicality. I hope that the instrument of supervision will be better implemented and that events, as they took place in Karlau a few weeks ago, will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5962	I call Mr Fuhrmann. I'd like to put the clock at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5983	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am dealing with the criminal law amendment law and I announce that the other points raised in the debate will be dealt with by other Members of my group. As far as the Law on Criminal Law change is concerned, my predecessor is obliged to have criminal law, criminal law regulations, signal character in a society. It should therefore be stressed that this law on criminal law, which has truly been discussed for a long time, gives some signals in Austria. On the one hand, the creation of a new sanction against organised crime, through the possibility of depleting enrichment, gives a signal towards criminal organizations. Furthermore, a signal is given in the direction of those who tend to carry out conflicts with themselves or with others by means of force enforcement, i.e. a signal towards the violent, by doubling the basic threat of physical injury and by extending the crime of trafficking. We are also putting a stop to the criminal traffickers with this law on criminal law, because we are introducing a new criminal rule against human tow. It also sends a strong signal against environmental gauneries because, after this criminal law amendment law has been passed, we can directly punish so-called waste tourism. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important signal will be given to the Austrian population, a measure against those criminals who are trying to "suck off" the population in a large style by running chain and pyramid games. With this law on criminal law, we are now introducing our own criminal law provision, according to which such games are forbidden and put under punishment. I am very glad that we have succeeded and that we will have the appropriate approval not only in the Committee on Justice, but also here in plenary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this law on criminal law also sets out a clear and unmistakable signal against child abuse and the protection of children, namely that more stringent punishment is provided for the sexual exploitation of children and a punishment of sex tourists is introduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the provisions of criminal law, this is a very important and very welcome measure in the sense of the general prevention referred to by Mr Fekter. It is a pity that another signal of this law on criminal law cannot reach the Austrian population, because the legislator of the Republic of Austria will not be able to decide on the abolition of discrimination against a group of Austrian citizens by removing the discriminatory sections – these are the famously notorious sections of Sections 209, 220 and 221 – in agreement and unanimously in this House, because there has been no majority in the Committee on Justice for this — Mrs Fekter has already pointed out. However, in order for this question to be properly discussed here in the plenary session, before I continue to deal with this question, I would like to make the following formal amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Do not allow me, in the time available to me, to try, for a very long time, to justify this amendment by my group as follows. I begin with §§ 220 and 221 and allow myself to quote to Mr. Dr. Michalek, who, at the meeting of the Subcommittee in October 1995, stated that in criminal law these two paragraphs had little meaning, only a few cases had occurred – for example, an AIDS information brochure – that these two sections were a restriction on the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and freedom of association and that there is no equivalent to those two paragraphs in international comparison. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, more is not added to these two paragraphs and to the deletion requested by us. I call for a corresponding majority of this National Council to vote in favour of this request. Now I come to the deletion of § 209 requested by us and would like to say something historical, ladies and gentlemen, first of all. There have been in Austria since the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== ==References== For today's legal situation, it should be noted that this so-called age of protection in Austria applies only to heterosexual and lesbian sexual contacts, and that in the case of male homosexuality, a protection age of 18 years is normized. On the other hand, this means that an adult who has sexual contact with a young man under the age of 18 is in danger of having a punishment, with a maximum of five years of impunity being not limited. We have now discussed in detail with the experts in advance, including in the Subcommittee and in the hearing, which this Subcommittee has organised on the basis of the three requests made by the three political groups, whether discrimination against this group could be socially and therefore acceptable by the legislator, because it is necessary to protect the group of 14 to 18-year-old young men from such homosexual sexual contacts. Ladies and gentlemen! We have not made it easy, but with great seriousness we have discussed this question with the experts. I will now, if you allow, quote some statements from this expert hearing. We have heard, for example, in this subcommittee, Mr University Professor Dr. Max Friedrich, who has said that he gives his opinion as both a biologically oriented doctor and a judicially sworn expert on children's and young people's psychiatry. All those who work in this field know that Professor Friedrich is a serious, serious expert who is there for the children, for the young people and is on their side. Professor Friedrich said: The use of a forced situation or authority, violence against immatureness and exploitation of immatureness is anyway suspected accordingly. There are enough protection paragraphs outside of § 209 in the law. He was opposed to discrimination and to the deletion of § 209. To this end, in parenthesis, I would like to add the following in order to disprove misunderstandings or other misconceptions deliberately or inadvertently brought into this discussion: I note that, in the event of the deletion of § 209, of course, as before, the abuse of authority relations, dolls, sexual necessity and rape remain unchanged. I think it would be fair and in the sense of the matter if all those who are discussing this issue would accept it in their arguments too! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to quote a statement by the President of the Austrian AIDS Committee. Ms. Dr. Judith Hutterer said, among other things: Enlightenment and information can only take place in a trusting, open relationship. Criminalization is only a matter of fear. § 209 is harmful from a purely medical and epidemiological point of view. The evangelical theologian Universitätsprofessor Dr. Kurt Lüthi expresses his desire that Austria should finally reach European standards. Sexual abuse is still subject to criminal law. The synods and church representations of the Protestant Church have set themselves the task of finding greater tolerance towards homosexuality. Ladies and gentlemen! I add: If university professor Dr. Lüthi expressed his wish that Austria should finally reach European standards, then university professor Dr. Manfred Nowak, who is a international legalist, explains in the hearing in the Subcommittee that since 1981 there have been several resolutions by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in which Member States are invited to equalise the minimum age of protection for heterosexual and homosexual sexual contacts, but also for binding legal standards. In this hearing, this recognised international legalist has also explained to us that it is also about the European Convention on Human Rights and similar conventions. The European Convention on Human Rights is binding constitutional law in Austria and these three sections discussed here contradict the provisions of Articles 8, 10 and 11 in conjunction with Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since we have such a legal situation in Austria – even if Mr. Kukacka shakes his head; he only needs to read the relevant excerpt presentation – and since we have a lot of youth psychologists, many experts who tell us the seduction theory, the theory of emphasizing at that age, about what is going on, actually outdated scientific teaching, that doesn't agree so, I can only with all the seriousness and in the awareness that I myself am grandfather of five grandsons and of course also their well-being and woe is at my heart now and in the future, to all Ladies and gentlemen of this House appeal: Please come with us, which we have tabled this amendment, and you agree with this amendment. Put a signal with us against discrimination against a group of Austrian citizens! Remove these paragraphs from the Criminal Code with us! I am of the firm conviction and I would ask you to consider that you do not cause harm to young people in this country, but, quite the contrary, to the young people of this country who, for whatever reason, have opted for a homosexual form of life, by giving them the right to live their sexuality in human dignity and to live their love, as they think it is right, without the threat of criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6142	The request of Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades to Sections 209, 220 and 221 comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and are under negotiation. Mr Vanner. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6166	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Criminal law change law: not a world-moving process, but a process that repeats itself every few years, because we spend our days in a fast time and therefore always have to close gaps in criminal law and also repair attempts. It is a law that also bears the stamp of the liberals. The decisive amendment also bears my signature. It has therefore come to pass unanimously. The Criminal Change Act in its core is a new start, the exhaustion of enrichment, more precisely expressed, the criminal enrichment, to get under control. An attempt in this direction, about ten years ago, has failed. The rules on the decommissioning of the criminal enrichment at that time have remained dead right. A second attempt is now being made. He will also find it difficult – I trust to predict this – to carry out his intention, but it should at least succeed to arrive where organized crime can be demonstrated or at least suspected of reaching the amounts that exist somewhere and which may even be "lordless". In fact, it will be very difficult to get anywhere where there is property crime, to take advantage of what has been stolen, mistrusted, or brought to it by fraud, because the Austrian average criminal is usually not capable and does not put the money on the side, but when the authority catches it, he usually has nothing more than debts that he has carried with him for years or decades and which have only increased by the most recent criminal acts. But I hope and hope all of us that this new attempt to arrive at criminal amounts will be more successful than the one that dates back to Harald Ofner and which has remained the dead right. Gaps are closed in the case of acts that could be described as modern, which are more important, more convincing and less important, less convincing: Exploitation, for example, is certainly an area that deserves attention from the criminal legislator, but also from the judicial authorities. Chain or pyramid games are very up-to-date. An attempt to get hold of this is certainly not irrelevant. Less significant will be the subpuniting of the production and spread of weapons of mass destruction. At present, perhaps the illicit handling of nuclear material or radioactive substances would be more recent. We all know from the newspapers, but also from the legal life, that there is every now and then the attempt or the act to bring such material to Austria or to transport it through Austria. In other words, the law on criminal law in the narrower sense is a collection of elements that are urgently up-to-date, which we all need, and of efforts, which, on the other hand, are more likely to be made in the future, to compile facts of action that could perhaps become up-to-date. End In addition, the problem is the increase in flat-rate costs in criminal proceedings. There is a free request here, which has been designed to reduce the flat rate costs in its maximum amounts. I can explain this; it has happened from this point on. Criminal justice costs a lot of money. Convicts often result in convictions, and as often as condemnants do have money. It depends on the crime. But the flat-rate costs that must be incurred as a contribution to the costs of the respective criminal proceedings are usually in the range of a few thousand schilling. A process that may take days will be carried out and, finally, flat-rate costs will be determined by 4 000 S or 5 000 S, although the whole procedure has cost a fortune. I ask you how the taxpayer comes to replace the offender, the defendant, with the costs of the court proceedings concerning him. We have presented ourselves to the liberals that they are properly valorised to the extent to which they are being increased so that at least the real costs of the procedure are replaced. We are somewhat disappointed at the fact that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have only taken up a doubling of these amounts, which will find the precipitation in the law, but which does not even correspond to a valorization. I believe that we must continue to find that the principle of 'polluter pays' is also reflected in criminal law, including administrative criminal law. There is also a detailed system in the implementation area. It will allow judicial guards to apply sophisticated surveillance methods and also to pursue refugee prisoners, which they must have left to the police or the Gendarmerie until now. Efforts are being made to close gaps that have occurred in the course of the practice in criminal execution. All of this has gotten a certain amount of up-to-dateity through the problem at the Graz judicial institution or, as it is called in the Volksmund, Karlau. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I would also like to present an aspect of the events in the Graz judicial centre, which has so far found far far far far far far far too little entry into the discussion in the public and the media: A judicial body provides accommodation for a large number of difficult people – in order to express it carefully –. That means that a few hundred, often to the thousand, sometimes more than a thousand, have become criminalized – I say again – difficult people live under one roof under very simple conditions for all those involved. We learn from the media, when we turn on television in the evening, when we hit the newspapers, that in many countries of the world there are prisoner revolts with hostages, a large number of hostages, with murder, death and burning cell tracts, with prisoners on the roof and machine guns in operation. The fact that such a thing does not take place in Austria has its cause in that we have the at least theoretical possibility, to which individual subjective hope leaves the possibility to be released at some point in time. Of course, not everyone can be released from prison, and that is also good, but theoretically every criminal prisoner in Austria has the chance to say: If I behave properly, if nothing special happens from me in my prison period, I theoretically have the opportunity to get out earlier than it corresponds to the punisher. This instrument of conditional dismissal is actually applied in Austria by almost all execution courts, only by one not, by Graz. In Graz, that is, in the competent area in which Karlau belongs, no conditional discharge is released. Not less, but practically not! Knowing insiders, Innsbruck is the most frequently dismissed, then it is staggering down over Suben and Garsten to Vienna, but there is nothing in Graz in this sector. This led to the fact that, at the occasion of the opening of this year's meeting, the heads of the institutions of the judicial institutions in Graz developed a verbal discussion among the speakers a few months ago, on the one hand, the execution, on the other hand the judiciary, because the thesis is represented – and that is already articulated at festivals – in Karlau, because if there is no theoretical opportunity for conditional dismissal, then something happens once. Everyone has been waiting for something to happen in Karlau just now – and something has happened, ladies and gentlemen! This must be expressed openly, and I take the opportunity to do so today. One should not now pretend as if the judicial guard had not considered enough, or as if, what might be true, the statements on the purchase had not been made in accordance with the rules. In fact, everyone feared that something would happen there. This has led – I repeat it – to verbal controversies in festive talks on the occasion of the opening of the meeting of the experts, the head of the institution, in Graz. This must be said, and it must also be addressed accordingly, because it cannot be said that essentially a single judge, whose name I might call it, has the power to act so decisively on things in this sector, that then it really happens once a hostage is taken, which is very rare in Austria. A sentence on the issue of judicial organisation in Vienna: I believe that there are two possibilities for the judicial organization in large cities. The possibility number one is the Munich system: one or two huge dishes somewhere on the outskirts where everything takes place, from the entrance court to the highest court. It may be that this concentration has advantages, it does not correspond to the Austrian being and to Austrian legal life. We have chosen the way – even not always, but only for about ten years – that we want to have a geographically civil justice that also meets the citizen's distance, and we have therefore taken the path of justice, i.e. courts in which everything takes place to bring criminal, civil, execution law et cetera, to the individual districts. I consider this path, which is already very far ahead, to be the right one, and I am pleased that the Meidling District Court has reached another milestone – already you can see the light at the end of the tunnel. So much about today's presentation in the area in which I wanted to "be heard".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6262	Mrs Dr Schmidt has now been reported to speak. - Please, you have the floor. 20 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very disappointed when I look at the presence of Members here in plenary. It is always so with the presence in plenary, and everyone knows why this is so, but there are certain situations in which one agrees on this, despite differing views on the fact that a matter is of particular importance. We had this, for example, when it came to accession to the European Union, when it came to accompanying legislation, and there are times and again such opportunities. It is usually about economic policy. Obviously, it is not recognized what we are going to vote on today and what a dimension the decision of Members, as everyone knows, has for a number of people. And that is the real disappointment for me, because with the sparse presence in these rows here, whether this is with the SPÖ, with the ÖVP or with the liberals, it is expressed that one obviously does not understand it. It is therefore my concern how this vote will take place. As far as this proposal and Agenda items 1 to 9 are concerned, I would like to limit myself to a single aspect, namely those relating to the rules on homosexuals. There will probably be no one in this House who is not concerned about the protection of young people. I'm going to assume that. There is also no one in this House who does not say that he is concerned about the guarantee of human rights, and yet there are so great differences between the political groups in both aspects. That is why I wanted this debate to serve as an argument here, that we should try to convince each other - I am saying "one another" - in terms of content, and that ultimately everyone understands and feels that it is up to him how this decision will take place today. I would like to talk about the protection of young people – this has already been mentioned by colleagues today – about the content, according to our understanding. There are two terms that need to be clarified: one is the concept of protection; the other is the concept of youth. And only when we have decided for ourselves what meaning this has, can we come to what regulations are necessary at the state level. I would like to start with the concept of youth. This is the amendment tabled by Fuhrmann, Schmidt and Stoisits, the age from which sexual contacts should not be punishable, to reduce them to 14 years in a uniform manner. ==References== For many areas of our society, the age of life is a cornerstone. What to do from the age of 14. Year of life can do everything about it, there is a wonderful composition that the homosexuals themselves have made, because they too try to convince with arguments. That is why I must say: Deep respect for the work done here, for the persuasion done in recent years! I hope she wasn't in vain. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this composition is listed what a person is from the 14th century onwards. Year of life has been allowed to do everything. I would just like to make a few points: The youth is punishable, vulnerable, testable, can already collect private penalties. He can determine his religion independently. That's so, I can also call you the corresponding paragraphs. There are a number of areas in which, as soon as a young person is 14 years old, nothing goes. These are all things that affect the life of the individual, his most personal subjective rights, his personality development. We have set a limit: ==References== The young person is responsible for his life. We have excluded a single area: those of the homosexual men who are not allowed to determine themselves sexually. Now I ask you: Can you contradict it if I claim that sexuality is probably the most original of a personality? They make people punishable, vulnerable, testable and much more – their sexuality but don't let them decide for themselves. I already know that the argument is that we can be seduced. I do not want to put all the unreasonableness in the argument. Many who make this request are even convinced that this is the right thing to do. I would therefore like those who have already dealt with it to consider even now what arguments are more difficult for them. Temptation is something – it has been proven scientifically – that cannot happen against something that is not already contained in itself. That is, if the appropriate orientation is not available, cannot be seduced. Another argument, which is always used again and again, is the argument of the time. If you say a person doesn't know it at the age of 14, but at the age of 16 or 18, he knows it – you nod, colleague Ridi Steibl – then I ask you: What sense should it have to want to prevent someone from knowing in advance how to be sexually oriented? How does it make sense that the state wants to prevent people from recognizing their identity earlier? – This is the real point of the matter. Do we not want a society in which people can live according to their identity? It has been shown that people no longer change their identity. The only question still open is whether sexual orientation is a fixed concern or whether it takes place in the earliest childhood. The fact that sexual orientation does not take place later has been proved. So it's just about recognizing one's own orientation. Do you really want to prevent that? You know what society You're gonna make it with that? Have you ever dealt with these people so that what lives these people have to lead in a society in which they are octroyed that this is something wrong in which they believe they have to live a different identity from that which is actually inside them? Do you know what that means to a person? – That’s exactly what it’s all about! [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ Members and the Greens.]] Mr Kukacka! We all want to build a protection against necessity, against capture, against violence. We have provisions for this, and we need them. I will not touch a finger to change these provisions, because they are necessary, but you want to push out the recognition of your own identity as far as possible! I would now like to quote a priest – one, as I mean, very clever quote – and thus go over from the term of the youth to the need for protection. Before we define the provisions, we must first know what we want to protect from. And to this protection need a word: Faith Do you really want people to be protected from homosexuality? Do you really think so? - Nothing else expresses it. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: before sexual assaults!]] Now the quote I wanted to bring: "For the future of society, it is crucial to promote the ability to be intimate." This is my opinion, too. I believe that if we complain about the state of this society, we must start with the individual, there, as this individual finds himself, in order to be able to take responsibility for others as well. Only then does it work. Everything else is rules that stand on the paper and can never be filled with life. If you want to, then you have to give people the opportunity to live as they themselves are oriented and feel their own identity. Therefore, when we speak of protection, one must also know that in this society, and not only in this society, but above all in the state, "to protect from something" means that what one protects from – this also meant colleague Fekter when she said that a criminal law is a sort of order of values, and to some extent I give it right – is bad. You don't need to protect anyone from anything that's not bad. If it's all right, there's no need for protection. For example, we protect against the fact that someone under the influence of alcohol brings down someone else or whatever. There is only a need for protection where you want to keep something bad away from someone. So if you make different rules for the age of people who maintain sexual contacts with regard to criminality – I am conscious of a different regulation – then you are expressing that where there is a higher need for protection, the matter itself is bad. Nothing else you say. A criminal provision cannot be felt differently. This – and this is the bad thing about it – does not only burden those people who have to and want to live in this way, but they also manifest those prejudices in society that are: That's something absurd, that's something abnormal that we just don't want to discriminate against, because we're so civilized, but it's bad. Nothing else expresses such a legal provision! And you just have to know this when you give your voice to it when you place the note on which is "Yes" or "No" to the individual templates. Therefore, my request to those who have dealt with it – unfortunately not all – is: Think about it again and consider what you do with it if you agree to a request that maintains this different rules in the criminal law! Consider what it means for the affected people to deal with what they psychologically impose on them to have to live with something unwanted by society – because nothing else tells them with it. Remember in which conflicts You're crashing these people what you're doing to these people! But also consider what signal you give to this society! For the company you give the signal: That's indescribable! All prejudices, as we experience them in the worst form, have thereby obtained a right, a legitimacy. They can call on it and say: From the long discussion that was held, the result was that homosexuality is at least something to protect people from. – This is the signal you give today if you agree to a different regulation. But this signal may You don't give this society! That's why I appeal to you! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you are always talking in Parliament about people staying faithful, you will give them the opportunity to find yourself, then do not put them on the verge! I therefore ask you, unfortunately, - many of you, have not listened, although they are in the hall - to feel the responsibility of the free mandate on this occasion and to know what you are doing for those concerned and what you are doing for society, because it will be yours! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6344	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6366	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The platform for the abolition of criminal offences which discriminates against homosexual men in Austria has written in a letter or in a letter to all Members of the National Council: "At the threshold of the third millennium, Austria, once the first country in the world to abolish the death penalty for homosexuality, must finally find the connection to the civilized world on this issue." To find a connection to the civilized world is in this case a purely legal question, namely the equal treatment of people, the equal treatment of men and women, because this criminal law of § 209 discriminates against gay men, but not lesbian women against heterosexuals. For me it has always been – not only since I was a Member of the National Council – a sign of disregard for female sexuality, that there are these different provisions of protection, as one calls them, or discrimination, as I would call them, as part of the Austrian Criminal Code, for what is female sexuality worth? At least not so much that they would be considered dangerous. I can now follow the words of Mrs Schmidt, my predecessor. To date, female sexuality is not something that can be presented as dangerous, will or has become, female sexuality is not about a thing for which there would have been a mass movement in this country in recent years, where it would have been said to be seduced here, here children are "sawned". No one has devoted himself to this issue. It was always about the gays, about gay men who loved other gay men. The word "love" is crucial to me in this regard, because, according to the applicable provisions of the Criminal Code, love between people is persecuted and punished with judicial punishment in Austria. If what I think is the most natural thing in the world, namely that two people love one another, actually happens, there is the prison threat in this republic. If not only the people concerned, but also those who simply want the connection of Austria to the civilized world, believe that this should be concluded in 1996, then we can face this question quite emotionally from the legal point of view and find out how little right it is, otherwise everyone else with an enormous vehemence would have to demand equal treatment for all people – heterosexual, lesbian and gay – with an incredible vehemence. - But that's not the way it is. I do not address everyone here, because on this question, with which the National Council is dealing in a truly serious and factual way and For so many years now, I would like to express my highest consideration to all those involved, both ladies and gentlemen, who have made themselves available as experts in the Subcommittee, as well as to colleagues who have participated in the discussions; it has been an exemplary debate, even if they have, you will understand that I have been saying this for far too long, because, in fact, what is happening today, regardless of the outcome, could have been a long time ago – this is about a few people, a few female and male Members in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the FPÖ, who have the opportunity to help this country to join the civilized world. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's a freak!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the SPÖ this is not all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you believe that this is a true love between the 14-year-old and the 16-year-old?]] Mr Kukacka! I want to know what's a joke. People come to jail for loving one another. I'm not turning to you, that's your view. You're an uneducated man to me. I met you these years. I don't advertise Your understanding, you have expressed yourself so clearly to the public that it is completely pointless. They belong to a certain part of the Austrian population, including prominent bishops, whose opinion I respect, but which I do not think is right, because they discriminate because they do devalue a certain group whose sexual orientation does not seem to be yours, which is not mine, and in the last episode send this group to prison. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But you already have to mention the age!]] I turn, ladies and gentlemen, to those who always have one in their mouths, namely the protection of young people. I am not an expert on youth protection, I am a Member of the National Council - and Mr Graf is certainly not an expert on youth protection - but this is primarily a matter of clarifying the false assessments of the subject that we are dealing with today. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can see that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I have three children, how much do you have?]] The Austrian children's and youth lawyers, whose profession is to implement the protection of young people and children in their daily work, have given a clear opinion on the abolition of § 209. They have therefore addressed all Members to the National Council and have clearly stated that they are in favour of a uniform determination of the age of protection for boys and girls at 16 years. They have also made it clear that they consider it possible to implement this uniform age of protection in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has the National Council two years ago – it was in XVIII. GP – adopted unanimously. The Austrian children's and youth lawyers have also clearly stated that § 209 is primarily about the right to self-participation and self-determination and that the term "protection age" suggests that § 209 is aimed at protecting young people from sexual assaults. But that is not the case! § 209, as it is still right today, limits the self-determination of young people. I am not doing this more precisely, Mrs. Schmidt has already done this in great detail. It is not about the subjective opinion of 183 MPs, it is about the attitude on how to significantly affect autonomy – in this case, male youths – in the choice of love and life partners through a criminal law system. – That is why it is possible, ladies and gentlemen. In the same breath, we must note that in Austria the protection of children and young people from sexual exploitation and violence is normized in the Austrian Criminal Code. Some seem to think that in the event of the abolition of § 209 tomorrow of the wild growth will prevail. However, there is sufficient protection against force and violence, set out in a number of standards of the Criminal Code and – according to the opinion of the National Council – also. If it were not, there would have been even greater changes under the Criminal Law Change Act 1996. There are small, positive, which is why they will also receive our consent, changes concerning the protection of children and young people, all of which are summarized under the – even false – title "children's pornography", but this is about the right of young people to private life, this is about non-discrimination. Those Members who do not have an ideological and, in part, prejudiced opinion on this issue – it has hardly been as ideological as it has been in recent months and years as it has been by the operators of the continued discrimination – those who see this as the introductions of the amendment proposal – that is, the SPÖ, the Liberals and the Green Group – I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is about the choice of partners, about love and sexual self-determination and is not – as falsely argued – about protection. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuhrmann pointed out the development process, which took place in the Austrian public on the topic of homosexuality, in the first place. I have noted very, very positively that there is a very different public debate on this subject today than in recent years – a much more open, far more liberal, much less prejudiced than perhaps four or five years ago. However, this observation also nourishes my suspicion or my fear that, if it does not come to the abolition of these discriminatory acts today, so to speak, the empire will take back, in order to strongly formulate it, and repression and pressure of individuals who are in the public, but also of the Boulevard and the beer table, will be strengthened by their arguments and by the decision of the National Council in their opinion: Aha, now we can put a chancell on it again, now we can make gays and lesbians in this country feel what we think of their sexual orientation. - That's my great fear. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is an unfounded fear!]] This is not just a question of three criminal law statements that make life difficult for non-heterosexuals in this country, but there is a wealth of provisions in Austrian law, according to which there is discrimination, inequality or different treatment. I am referring to today's decision to the hope that we will also deal with all these points and that those civil law provisions which should be on the agenda for reform will finally be reformed. If criminal law stocks continue to exist because of today's decision, I see black in this regard. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, which you should consider. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ Members.]] The 1996 BENEFITS, which we members of the Committee on Justice have already been known to us as BENEFITS 1992 – no other law has been dealt with as long and as intensively in the National Council as this – is a legislative work whose need for innovation is not disputed. New, changed forms of crime must be addressed, and a response must be made by the State and the National Council. I no longer have the time to explain all this in detail, but I would like to tell you that the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the criminal law stocks that discriminate against homosexuals, there is the possibility of making some minor corrections. On the whole, what is to be decided today is my approval, but in detail there are a few absurdities that I think are just too hairthrowing. Ladies and gentlemen. Is it known to you that there is a paragraph in the Austrian Criminal Code – and an amendment to my amendment refers to the abolition of this paragraph – that sanctiones the abduction of a defenseless and wild woman? Whoever is a woman who is mentally ill or in a state that makes her unable to resist, abducts or abuses her sexually, is punished in Austria. - So far, so good. But that only refers to women. The Austrian criminal code suggests, which means, that it is clearly determined by the idea that the woman has to be subject to the man, because the other way round, there is no such provision. It is obviously impossible for the Austrian criminal law to imagine that a man is so willless that he is seduced into sexual acts that he does not want himself. What would happen? Do you prevent this section from giving a gender-neutral version? – So I think it’s a mistake on your part if you continue to maintain it. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] - Three minutes, please. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's still going on. The Austrian Criminal Code, which sanctions this circumstance, apologise for this behavior when it comes to a subsequent wedding. So whoever abducts and rapes a woman and later marries her, he goes out empty – empty in the sense of without punishment. That's really incredible! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What have such provisions lost in the Austrian Criminal Code? – That is why my proposal – and it will be tabled by me in the form of an amendment – to delete this provision. The same applies to the fact that the limitation period is different from Germany in relation to the sexual abuse of children. An old demand is – and this is something that would actually mean protecting the integrity of people – that the limitation period would be completed to the 18th. The victim's year of life is abandoned. This is especially because, due to dependence relationships between perpetrators and victims – such things are very, very often in the area of dependence, in the family sector – these things simply do not come to light, which prevents the criminal treatment of the perpetrators. In addition, it is often the case that, especially in the case of sexual offences and in the event of sexual abuse of children, memories do not return much later – usually in the case of therapies – and then persecution is no longer possible. That is why we have also prepared an amendment which will only enter the limitation period from the completed 18th century. The year of the abused person's life is to be brought about. The third point that concerns me is the fact that there is still a blasphemy paragraph in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria it is quite true that the disruption of religious practice is sanctioned – the disability of religious practice is hardest to punish – but for me the fact that for years cultural creators have been disabled in their work due to § 188. Culturalists are condemned, films, plays are censored, cultural activity is limited to an insignificant degree – and this at a time when we are entitled and hopefully protecting all unisono writers like Salman Rushdie from a crime which, transferred into our legal order, would represent nothing but blasphemy according to § 188 StGB. Therefore, the application for the replacement of § 188 and the maintenance of the section on the disturbance of the practice of religion. – We will read the amendment later. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, my appeal to you: Remember that today's decision is not about political change and not about tactics, but about love between people, in the case of love between men! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Like the love between man and woman, which is still free in this republic, love between men should be just as unconditionally possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6508	Mr Fuhrmann has now referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6532	Mr President. I did not want to interfere with Mrs Stoisits by means of an interlocutory call in her remarks. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not a correction!]] She was wrong when she told us that the Standing Conference of Children's and Youth Lawyers would have voted in favour of setting the age of protection for boys and girls at the age of 16. For the record, I would like to point out that, of course, in the second paragraph of the letter that we all received, the Standing Conference of Children's and Youth Lawyers, in the second paragraph of the letter, voted for the uniform adoption of the age of protection for boys and girls at the age of 14 years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6571	The Federal Minister for Justice has now been informed of the matter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's criminal law amendment law 1996 which is a re-establishment of several approaches marks a new focus in the criminal response system towards crime gains, towards illegal profits. Their confiscation, in addition to the prosecution of the perpetrators, is to become a special concern of the criminal justice, whether it be to safeguard the victim's claims for damages, or as an independent measure. The rule of law thus responds to the increasing profit orientation of some areas of criminal activity, especially those with a systematic and organized approach. The legal counter-point of the depreciation of the enrichment and decay of the assets of a criminal organisation should not only depressively influence criminal action, but also prevent or at least make it difficult for the reinvestment of criminal profits in the planning and conduct of new crimes, but also their intrusion into the legal economic structures. Exploitation of the enrichment and decay of new types as independent criminal reactions is solved by the strict conditions of a criminal sanction in the narrowest sense by providing, under certain conditions, a partial reverse of the burden of proof, including the assets of enriched third parties, and can also be used in the absence of the perpetrator. The extension of the criminal response range through enrichment and decay once again indicates that the fight against crime in general and organised forms of crime is not a one-dimensional task in particular. In addition to the classical response of the persecution and punishment of individuals, other measures must be taken in response, in particular prevention and international cooperation. Only then can we succeed in preventing or disrupting the creation of criminal cross-border networks, or in removing such networks and structures. With the decision-making of the Law on Criminal Law 1996 today, the Austrian legislator is taking an important step in this effortful path, which must also be devoted to our full attention in the future – not least through the creation of legal bases for special police investigation instruments. As part of the efforts to combat organised crime more efficiently, the new form of crime already mentioned in the Criminal Law Change Act, as well as the creation of new criminal offences against exploitary tow, the illicit handling of nuclear materials and radioactive substances, the production and dissemination of ABC weapons or the illegal export of hazardous waste, waste tourism, are included. I would just like to highlight one point from the procedural part of the criminal law amendment law: the new remedy for the renewal of criminal proceedings, with which Austria enters new country from an international perspective in the area of the implementation of decisions of the Strasbourg legal protection agencies. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Criminal Law 1996 is the most comprehensive amendment of the Criminal Code since the great reform of the criminal law of the 1970s. It is primarily about adapting to new forms of criminal behaviour as well as changing social views, whether by decriminalisations, such as in the case of adultery, whether by creating or intensifying criminal offences, such as – beyond the examples mentioned above – environmental criminal law, child pornography, violence or criminal offences that are contrary to the principle of non-domestic law. Apart from the current new regulations, however, some other parts of our criminal law are also considered to be in need of revision, especially those in the conception of sexual criminal law dating back to the 1960s. This has become particularly evident from the discussion of the recent months on the appalling phenomenon of the sexual exploitation of children and young people. I therefore set up a multidisciplinary working group to revise these criminal provisions, as announced here at the time, and I also invite the Parliamentary Clubs of the House to participate in the work of this body. However, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of special sexual offences in the homosexual field seems to me. Since the Ministerial Draft of the Criminal Law Change Act 1994, in which the Federal Ministry of Justice proposed the abolition of Sections 220 and 221 StGB and the provision of § 209 for discussion, there has been a wide-ranging legal debate on the need for special criminal provisions in the field of homosexuality. Not least by that in the XIX. Legal period of high-ranking expert hearing in the Subcommittee of the Justice Committee has been established as an excellent basis for a sober and objective assessment of the issues to come today. The focus of the discussion is undoubtedly § 209 StGB. First of all, I would like to point out once again that, when § 209 StGB is removed, the threat to criminal offences against the abuse of an authority, i.e. the use of the position as a child’s guardian of education, training or supervision, remains on sexual acts, including, of course, the unaltered criminality of all acts involving violence or necessity. Nor should it be overlooked that the maintenance of a different age of protection for heterosexual and homosexual acts no longer corresponds to the European legal standard. A few years ago, both the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament voted in favour of providing for homosexual acts the same age of protection as for heterosexuals. In recent years, this call has been followed by several European countries, which still have a different age of protection. Furthermore, in international comparisons, we must not ignore the fact that, because of our strict principle of legality, the setting of age limits and set-aside terms has a more prejudicial and final deterrent effect than in countries where the principle of opportunity applies in law enforcement. High house! In Austria, we should not lose sight of the fact that the forthcoming decision also has a very fundamental legal and democratic significance as regards the needs of the criminal protection of young people. It is not only by those concerned by these criminal provisions that their maintenance or abolition is given a high symbolic value and a certain signal effect on the handling of a minority, defined in this case by its sexual orientation. I believe that the discussions since the Government's draft law on criminal law changed in 1994 did not suggest any results that would suggest a departure from the then proposal of the Federal Government to replace §§ 220 and 221 StGB without replacement, and that the expert hearing in the parliamentary subcommittee should show good reasons for deleting also § 209 StGB. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decision-making process is also under the new criminal law in 1996. It will continue the reform of the enforcement of criminal law in 1993 with regard to modernisation, efficiency improvement and security. On the one hand, the focus of this innovation is the legal anchoring of an internal revision based on operational principles, which will also contribute to the initiation of necessary improvements in the execution of the criminal service, on the other hand, the clarification and extension of the powers of the law enforcement staff. This project represents a further essential point in a number of measures taken in recent years to optimise security in criminal proceedings. This is what we have done in the conviction that the guarantee of security must be a priority objective in the execution of the penalty. The importance of security in criminal proceedings, but also of the climate of execution and the prospects for release, has been stressed by Mr Dr. Ofer rightly pointed out, and I share the view that in this context too there is no unnecessary restrictive handling of the possibilities of conditional redundancies, which, moreover, also provide conditions for the probationary period, is of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen! As is shown by today's legislative papers, there can be no standstill in the area of criminal and criminal law, which is so fundamentally important to society, with all the basic restraints against the creation of ever-new standards. This is particularly true of criminal law. This is not only a question of creating a state-of-the-art balance for new police investigation methods, as they are currently being discussed in the Parliamentary Subcommittee, but also a question of recasting the entire preliminary procedure. I see, in particular, a current system of criminal police investigations in criminal justice services as a primary task of the current legislative period. We are currently working on a draft that is based on the score sent to members of the Justice Committee at the time, and will continue work in close cooperation with the Interior with high pressure. In addition, we are working on a comprehensive regulation of the so-called "disversion", including the extrajudicial compensation of acts in adult criminal law. This draft will be sent to the general review at the beginning of the year. With this outlook I would like to close and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6691	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. – I was announced a voluntary time limit of 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6713	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law on criminal law is an important step towards greater security in Austria, and I do not need to go further into the definition of the criminal organisation, whether it be the depleting of the enrichment or also the new practices against the tow and the definition of the criminal organisation at all. However, further steps must be taken along this path, leading to more safety in Austria. If cross-border crime is to be addressed accordingly, we must provide our security authorities with the necessary tools and methods so that they can also win this fight successfully. I am very confident that in the next few days and weeks there will be agreement on this and that it will finally be possible to achieve these necessary further methods. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian has a longing for security, and I believe that the Austrians also have a right to this security. That is why it is so important for the People's Party to always underline and clearly point out the clear path of victim protection before the perpetrator's protection. Personally, I am pleased – and this is my last comment on the general part of the Criminal Law Change Act – that it has succeeded in finding a common solution to the problem of the operation of environmentally hazardous installations. I believe that there has been a clear formulation here, which, while holding back the problem, does not endanger the economic location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the change of a society requires that we constantly rethink the standards that govern this society. However, we are also required to reflect on the values behind these standards and, where they are still important to us, to maintain them. The criminal code best reflects the values of society. What is really important to us is to be protected. I acknowledge Mrs Schmidt's view that the view of this can be different. Mrs Stoisits impressed me very much with her speech. Unfortunately, she's already gone. If it actually equates love with sexual acts, I must say that one can still understand her point of view. But there are also many people in Austria who do not want to see the concept of love more comprehensively and not just to reduce it to sexual action. It is precisely these people, I believe, that we must take equal account of them in this debate. For us from the People's Party, the institutions of marriage and family continue to be of great value, and we therefore set the standard there: These values need to be protected, which will enable these instruments to be supported in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this we differ from some of the political groups in this House. It is therefore necessary to comment on some of the requests. Today, Mrs. Stoisits, but also the Liberal Forum, made the request to replace § 188, which relates to the degradation of religious teachings. I'd like to hold on: This request hurts many faithful people in Austria. The majority of Austrians still feel connected to a religious confession. It is not at all a question of punishing someone who fulfils this crime, but it is about the value behind this standard to these people. It is about religious values being more than protective. They are worth living and – I ask you to take this into account – vital for many Austrians. A religion, whatever it may be, may be in this world and must not become the subject of ridicule and pangs in this state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Similarly, we see the efforts to remove the threat of punishment in the event of breach of the maintenance obligation. I ask you to talk to those women who run after their "reflect" men and the money for their children. If this threat of punishment falls away, then good harvesting alone, I fear, will not lead to success. Ladies and gentlemen! We here in this House have the obligation to give people safety. We have the obligation to maintain values that should be worth something in this society, and we have the obligation to help victims to their right and to protect the oppressed. The current law on criminal law is a good step in this direction, only one should be clear to us: The opening up of criminal law also undermines the values, and the Austrian People's Party does not want to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6786	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Possible speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6807	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to turn to § 209 again and underline what has already been said by some previous speakers. However, I would like to add one more question, namely the question of the protection of young people and the question of whether § 209 actually protects the youth. The planned deletion of § 209, as we aim at it, is not about the right of adults to sexuality with young people, but about the right of men 14 to 18 years old male youths to determine their sexual partners themselves. Homosexual youths are socially disadvantaged against heterosexuals in several ways. The removal of Sections 209, 220 and 221 would reduce this discrimination, but would not eliminate it. Youth is generally a complex and difficult phase. Young people have to get rid of their parents, they have to learn to develop relationships, including intimate relationships. They need to form their identity. This process is associated with special strains for homosexual youths. Homosexual boys and girls seem to be the only young people without a group of peers with whom they can identify and receive support, because the other homosexual youths live mostly hidden, and this leads to extreme isolation. Young people often feel that they cannot talk to anyone about their problems, longings, and feelings. The only images of homosexuals that society offers them as role models are stereotypes that represent homosexual people as neurotic, unhappy and self-destructive. They also often appear on the joke pages. Especially in this situation, which is extremely depressing for these young people, homosexual youths need to live in harmony with their homosexual orientation. In the absence of appropriate role models, however, homosexual youths do not learn how to develop intimate relationships and then maintain them. They hardly receive social support and assistance in the frustrations, disappointments and conflicts that typically arise in every relationship with time. Their relations are therefore at the forefront of a bad sign. Discrimination strengthens this situation, and discrimination also counteracts the successful development of young people because it is so difficult for them to enter into stable and lasting relations. The young people seek, with or without criminal law, their partners, and that is their good right. This has already been said here. The rule of law can shape the conditions under which this happens, and it can extremely deteriorate the conditions, as clearly happens in this case. Discrimination and the related obligation to secrecy drive young people into unfavourable social environments, railway stations, parks, public toilet facilities and so on, where they then enter anonymous contacts that are generally exposed to a lower risk of discovery – at least a much lower level than in real, personal relationships. Accordingly, in its opinion on the draft in 1991, the Vienna Children's and Youth industries also pointed out that, I quote, "many gay and bisexual youths have no other place to live their sexuality than the well-known toilets, parks and railway stations. There is a danger that they will come into contact with prostitution. In their usual social environment, it is impossible for them to know nothing about homosexual organizations and locals, or they do not trust themselves because of the ambiguity of the environment. Youths often crowd out their own homosexual shares so much that they need to justify their homosexual acts of payment. This connection between taboo and discrimination against homosexuality and youth prostitution is evident." – End of the quote. Finally, the homosexuals who meet young people in their street life usually confirm those negative images of homosexuals who receive them from society. In this way, positive lifestyles that open up to them remain hidden. There is a large American study on homosexual teens. The main cause of death among homosexuals in the USA is suicide, which is no coincidence. We must consider, when we talk about youth protection, the extreme isolation and the extreme problems these young people have. Only recently have I been confronted with the fall of a 16-year-old who was caught with an adult man who is at the end of twenty. He's been contacted by the police for over four hours, and he finally gave up this man's name. Contact had been established on the initiative of the youth, so there is no case of abuse of a dependency relationship, of necessity, threat or any other crime. It is a violation of § 209. The man in question will be tried and sentenced, he may be threatened in his existence. For the young, it is a heavy trauma. I wonder if this § 209 can really protect anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6877	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. – Deputies! You have the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6898	Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's day in Austrian parliamentarism is a very important day, because today's decision is about whether Austria remains in sexual criminal law in the Middle Ages or creates the leap into modern times. In the attempt to find a solution, to put forward a compromise that is acceptable to all parties, my group decided on a common, portable and majority solution yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that anyone who speaks in favour of liberalising the homosexual paragraphs should give this one our request, which is admittedly a compromise, but which is a more viable, more powerful one. What does this compromise consist of? – This compromise is to reduce the age of protection from 18 to 16 years when determining § 209 of the STGB. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There will be hardly any reasonable reasons, I believe, that could cause anyone here in the House not to agree to this compromise proposal. You must not forget, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Austria, in the individual federal states, we are already discussing whether the electoral age should be reduced to 16 years. It will be discussed whether the young person should be granted more rights than before. Whoever does not close this right trend is called today – and is likely to give the vote in this sense too – to give approval to the reduction of the protection age for 16 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was also very gratifying for us liberties when we were able to conclude this morning from an APA communication that SPÖ and ÖVP are considering submitting a joint request which corresponds to our content in order not to have to get into the embarrassment of accepting our request. Whether this request is submitted by you or not, my knowledge and knowledge of my group - the time for it would be sufficient. But I mean, already this commitment by SPÖ and ÖVP, a joint request which corresponds to this "medial solution", to this reasonable compromise, shows very clearly the reasonableness of our request to reduce the age of protection to 16 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now one can object to the violation of the principle of equality. I am of the opinion that this is not the case, because the Constitutional Court allows an inequality where various facts can also be assessed unevenly in the matter. The Constitutional Court of Justice has already discussed the issue of the uneven age of protection for heterosexuals and for homosexuals according to the current legal situation, namely 14 years and 18 years, and has come to the conclusion in 1989 that there is a genuinely justified inequality. We assume that social policy and development have also done something. But if in 1989 the Constitutional Court considered the inequality between the ages of 14 and 18 to be factually justified, it would not consider an approach to be uneven for 16 years in 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the historic opportunity here to agree to this liberalisation in sexual criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much appeal here to the representatives of the SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum in particular: Whoever is in favour of a total liberalisation, as it corresponds to your request, must also be for partial liberalisation if the total liberalisation does not go through. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Everything else would be an act of disbelief. In my view, it is only from the point of view of voting against this reasonable compromise proposal, because, as I believe, the Liberals have received an all-valued, majority request to which SPÖ and also ÖVP signal that they can befriend their content that they are not responsible. I therefore ask you and invite all the ladies and gentlemen of all parties to take part in this viable compromise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7019	The amendment just tabled by Mr Krüger is, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Maximum speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7044	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to respond immediately to the speech made by Mr Drinkl, whom I do not see in the Chamber now, but perhaps he will listen to a speaker. I share his view that we must protect what is valuable to us, and that this must also be done within the framework of the Criminal Code. However, at this point, ladies and gentlemen, I think that homosexuals are just as valuable to the liberals as they are to heterosexuals, and that they must therefore be protected from unjust, unwarranted persecution by criminal law. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] The consequence of this can only be that we delete the articles 209, 220 and 221 of the Criminal Code today without replacement. Mr Lukesch! We have had these paragraphs for too long. I would also like to make a brief point in this whole complex, which we are talking about, on other matters too, about the statements made by Mr Drinkl, who said it was completely wrong not to want to impose the violation of the obligation of maintenance under criminal law in the future. He said that we should talk to those women who need to follow up with their dependent men for lack of payments. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I It's true: These women follow the men, and once these men sit in the port, they don't need to run after them anymore. However, these women do not receive any money from the dependent men, because when someone is sitting in the port, he cannot work and can only pay quite nothing. That is why it does not make sense. It is not a useful provision in terms of what is to be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the devaluation of religious teachings, Mrs Fekter did not say that we have made it clear in the Committee on Justice that it is not a question of appreciating religious teachings or simply setting up the door to them, but rather of preventing the use of this provision to an increasing extent in order to limit the freedom of art. This is already a problem, and it is increasingly becoming a major problem. We believe that, when it comes to human rights and such criminal provisions, human rights should be preferred to criminal law. That is why we have advocated the removal of this provision. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Fekter! They have also not explained that we have suggested that, in future, Chapter 10 of the Criminal Code should not be subtitled by the fact that it is a crime against morality. When it comes to criminal prosecution of rape, slave trafficking and many other very serious crimes, then, we have suggested, we should say: It is about the offence against human dignity. You did not say that you were not of this opinion, but that you thought it only moral offences. This example shows that when assessing the relationship between criminal sanctions and human rights restrictions, we are simply completely different. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that today we talk about the social-politically so gravely central question of the abolition of the articles 209, 220 and 221 criminal code. I would just like to deal with this in the following terms, because we agree with the other provisions. The real central issue is today: How do we deal with these conditions that we have in Austria in relation to this group – admittedly small –? As a counter-argument, it is always argued that it is a matter of protecting young people and therefore the § 209 criminal code is indispensable. Both the Minister for Justice and my previous speakers have already made it clear that there are other provisions for protection. For the sake of completeness, I would just like to tell you what other provisions these are. It is not true that there is only a half set hidden somewhere to ensure this protection, but to protect female and male youths from sexual harassment there is the § 201 criminal code on rape, there is § 202, in which it is about sexual necessity, § 205, in which it concerns the abuse of an authority, § 206, in which it concerns sleeping with unmistakable persons, § 207, in which it concerns fornication with the unmistakable, § 212, in which it concerns the abuse of a relationship of authority, and § 213, in which it concerns Kuppelei. This is about threats of punishment, ladies and gentlemen, who are not claws. This goes from 3 years to 10, 15, even to 20 years. I therefore believe that it is simply not right to say that the protection of young people from sexual assaults, from sexual harassment, depends solely on § 209 of the Criminal Code. This protection does not even depend on it at least, but it is a special provision made for male homosexuals. In fact, when we have a fair debate on this issue, we also need to talk about why, so far, women have not been granted this supposedly necessary protection, which you, Mrs Fekter, clearly meant. Women are apparently not taken seriously in their sexuality, women are apparently not protected from 14 years of age, they are – I say now deliberately polemic – wild game. - It can't be like that! I therefore believe that we simply have to face up to the fact that we are really dealing with issues of social acceptance, simply and simply with questions of equality. In this context, I would also like to mention an already mentioned knowledge of the Constitutional Court. It's 3rd. In October 1989 the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the common organization of the The Constitutional Court has stated very clearly and clearly in its statement that "in assessing this need for protection" – which we are all now talking about – "is to be based on a wide-ranging, clear and diverse social discrimination against homosexuals, which must lead to a variety of difficulties and conflicts due to the values prevailing in society for those concerned." Ladies and gentlemen! One of the consequences of this disregard for homosexuals in Austria is that there is a particularly high rate of suicide among homosexuals. The abolition of § 209 is intended to prevent young people from becoming worthless in the future, because they, I say quite consciously, love homosexuals that they feel worthless, perhaps even useless or absurd, and that they may perhaps come to the completely austere thought of putting an end to their lives, because they simply consider their situation to be hopeless, because they no longer know what they should do, and because they can't turn to anyone. In fact, we drive people to the edge of society, we push them on the wall, we get them to put actions that nobody – really nobody! – can wish in this House. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore saying this because I have already mentioned and repeated the fact that homosexual young people, homosexual men, are just as valuable members of our society as heterosexual young people, like heterosexual men, must also be able to express. One must be able to express it personally, and one must also be allowed to pronounce it from the law. In the future, Mrs Fekter, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Lucisch, must be able to stand up and say: Yes, these are valuable people in our society! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not a dispute!]] Yes! I'll tell you where. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a premise!]] I thought, Mrs Fekter, that you would object to this. I therefore say this in this detail, because it is your request, Mrs Fekter, whom you have brought into the criminal law amendment law, that in the future there must not be a public commitment to homosexuality, that it should be penalized. You ask for this with your request! I quote for your reasons, Mrs Fekter, in which you refer to those criteria which have been developed by the Administrative Court in its jurisdiction. That's what it says after a longer version – I quote –: By applying these criteria, it can be clearly established that the public representation of equal sex contacts and the public appearance and promotion of equal love violates good practices. That is the definition that it is a public nuisance, and that is the reason why you think... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If it's a public nuisance!]] No, ladies and gentlemen! I say something to you:... Yes, I read it, and I will read to you a sentence from your explanatory statement, in which it reads: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the application!]] "It is not necessary that advertising was actually perceived by many." – It is therefore only that it is objective that it has been made. It must not have been "really perceived by many". If it has been made, then it is already public nuisance, and if it is public nuisance, then it is – according to your request – punishable in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That it is a public nuisance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have the problem of further defining these values in the criminal code, and we have the problem that, according to your request, the different age limits should continue to be maintained. There are some minor changes in it, but the different age limits should continue to be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen! But that is exactly what will result in men and young people who feel homosexuals who love homosexuals being disdained socially in the future, because the criminal code says that this is not okay. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that in the future homosexual youths will continue to be left alone, just as they do today, having no opportunity to express themselves, to form their self - esteem and to feel valuable people in our society. Ladies and gentlemen! These young people will continue to be exposed to the degrading treatment in connection with the procedure referred to in § 209, for they know that there is a persecuted person and that there must also be a witness. Therefore, since there are only two people who are affected by it, it will be so – and is already so – that this provision will be used to a great extent to put pressure on homosexual youths. And that's something nobody can want! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This problem, which I have outlined, - I am saying this in the direction of Mr Krüger - applies to every request which provides for a different age treatment over 14 years. – Member of the Krüger! I would like to say quite clearly to the Liberals: Your request with a different age limit – it is now mildened; this different age limit is set by you at 16 years of age – is not a compromise because there must be no compromise on issues of human rights, on matters of equal treatment! [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. You're in a hurry.]] Mr Krüger! I was before and even earlier when it was on other occasions about this subject, impressed by your remarks and above all by the clarity of your statements. I assume that you remember just as I do. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion from all that has been discussed here for many years in the House can only be – and no one can really do that, Mr Graf, anyone, with some kind of mind, which is for everyone in the house, but also nobody with some sort of heart formation –: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you are not of your opinion, then criticize that!]] Paragraphs 209, 220 and 221 of the Criminal Code must be abolished! Please do that to make it happen! anything else, Mr Graf, Mr Krüger, Mr Vanner, Mrs Steibl, anything other than this decision would be cruel and incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7192	Ladies and gentlemen on the balcony and on the gallery! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not customary to accompany the debates from the balcony or from the gallery with acclaims or misconceptions. I would ask you to refrain from doing so in the future. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7216	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. As I listened to the debate, I sometimes thought that I could keep my contribution short on the one hand because – and not only today – the essential points have already been mentioned as regards that part of the criminal law change that concerns the age of protection, and on the other hand because it is a matter that we have been discussing for a long time, which has, above all, been discussed publicly for a long time, so that I think that after such a long time, all the arguments are actually on the table and should be clear. But as you can see, it still doesn't shine one or it's still not ready. The fact that we are at the end of equality in Europe and that it is obvious, as it is now, that it could be a success even today, if not one or another or one of the Members in the FPÖ and the ÖVP are still in the ranks and if one is thinking about what is right or against, if only one obeys what is supposed to be non-existent. We've been browsing. There was already a draft criminal law in 1867. It was just a draft, because it has not been decided so, but the amazing thing is that the lawyers, that is, the experts, who were already in agreement at the time, agreed on a point, as can be read in the explanatory remarks on this issue of the regulation of the age of protection or the regulation of love relations among people. It says that – the consent of the acting persons, i.e. the voluntary nature, provided that the criminal legislation has no reason to intervene, because no one's right is violated, and because it has to leave everyone to be responsible for himself, with whom he so to speak – I am about this now – whether with wife or with husband. The subject was already at the time, 1867. And for me, it is amazing that the legal scientists have already expressed this very opinion at the time: There is nothing the state has to regulate – absolutely nothing! Where protection provisions and the protection of children and young people are concerned – that has already been said several times today – there are other standards in the criminal law that guarantee protection against abuse. But we do not need a regulation that in any way limits a love relationship or love relationship among people. Mr Krüger! If you present today, so to speak, five to twelve, a request from the liberals and then present it as a compromise, I wonder what you thought only in the election of a word. Then: What does this compromise consist of if your request does not eliminate inequality or discrimination? – Both will continue to be maintained. Even if you go back from 18 years to 16 years for men in their sexual love relationships, there is still inequality with women and with heterosexual relations, and discrimination is also continuing. That's not a compromise! This is just an attempt to somehow enslave politically here. If you would really mean it with your address and say that the State has nothing to do with it, the State has nothing to determine, then you could probably agree to the joint request of the SPÖ, the Greens and Liberals and would not have to introduce such a special structure here at the last moment. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a special construction at all!]] Well, because it does not eliminate inequality or discrimination, and that is an essential fact! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a meaningful differentiation!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't understand that this is being differentiated!]] I know, of course, that you assume that some of the young people are involved, namely that part that is older than 16 or just 16 years old. But it is just a part, and – once again: – that does not eliminate the state we have, that does not eliminate the situation of people being discriminated against because of their sexual inclination. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! It's about protecting young people!]] If we're already there: There's something else that surprises me. Foreign Minister Schüssel recently presented an initiative, together with Italy in early October, in which it concerns a catalogue of fundamental rights – I need a little longer with my speech – of human rights. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This catalogue of fundamental rights, which is already in place and which is now also being introduced into the European Union as an Austrian-Italian initiative, emphasises the fact that there is no discrimination and may be discrimination due to race, nationality, gender and, among other things, sexual inclination. If, however, Foreign Minister and ÖVP-Parteiobmann Schüssel are serious about this and even takes it as an initiative in the European Union, where, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is your initiative here in the house, where will your conviction remain? Is your conviction somehow split between the decisions here in the house and those at the European level? How should we interpret this initiative? Has not Minister Schüssel known what he is initiating with Italy and is preparing for the European Union? Youth protection is regulated. Youth protection is sufficiently regulated in the criminal law and does not need any further definitions and regulations. It is high time – we are really the final light in Europe – that this is abolished. Again: Look It's up to you! Look Please take the initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which your party observer brings in and presents at the European level. And then I ask you how you can answer that today in this House of an initiative you are refusing to approve, expressing and saying exactly the same thing – exactly the same! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to read the order in order of the request made by my colleague, Mr Stoisits, but not read it, so that he can also be admitted to the proceedings. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7368	Mrs Mag. The amendment submitted just now by Kammerlander is supported in accordance with the rules of procedure and is included in the negotiations. Next, Mr Dkfm. Bauer to speak. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I have a modest and polite request: Take I should like to ask you, if I may, that I have not solved the question of further liberalisation of the criminal provisions relating to homosexuality. I did what I could do. I have been looking for the conversation with interested parties, with their representatives and I have read it in relevant publications – pro and counter. One thing has become clear to me – perhaps only more recently – that some of our younger fellow citizens – I emphasize: a part – are initially ambivalent at first. In this context, I am very grateful to Mr Dr. Fuhrmann for a half-rate, which he used in the explanatory statement for his group's request and in which he - I quote literally - spoke of people who have opted for homosexuality. – End of the quote. I am grateful to you, Willi – if I may speak to you here as well – for this because it expresses that at least for a part – I already limit more than you did – these young people have a choice or a choice, for otherwise you could not say: People who have opted for homosexuality. And if that says someone who is in itself a very committed advocate of total liberalisation, it has more weight than if it says perhaps a principled opponent who wants to put something in front of it. For this very reason, Hohes Haus, I am personally for maintaining as restrictive a protection age as possible for young people, because the final embossing or – to quote Dr. Fuhrmann – the final decision takes place, as in other areas, many times and especially in young years. And precisely for the same reason, I am also opposed to the abolition of the ban on homosexuality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say that as few young people as possible as possible, or to quote Willi Fuhrmann again, are being guided in this direction by those young people who have not yet decided. I do not want, and I also want to say that quite openly, to show that, for this reason, one could conclude that our society, our community, our state – or whatever vocabulary you want to use here – is that this society, this community, or that state, is totally no matter what direction sexuality is shaped in, where it is coined. I know you have to make this restriction. It can be this society, this community, this state, or that people, if you want to do so – but I do not use this word, because it has such a kind of smell for some, so this society can not matter in which direction sexuality is shaped and in which not. This society or community continues to be based on families and children for a very long time, if not in all eternity, and – I said it – it will have to do it well in the future – whether that fits certain circles or not – if it does not want to abolish itself à la longue. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is why, Mrs Kammerlander, the society, the Community, the State or the majority, if you want, has something to say here. Here is once again the greatest possible individual freedom of the individual against the interests, the interests of life, the existential interests of the larger community, the larger society in which this individual individual is embedded and wants to be embedded! Therefore, there must be a balance between the greatest possible individual freedom on the one hand and the legitimate right of participation on the other. And from this I derive the right to have a say here, not personally, but the state, the community and the majority in that state, in this society. High house! However, I would like to add the following personal confession to what I have said so far with the same emphasis and with the same conviction as possible – I have the conviction in myself: For me and my group, there can and must not be a general or even fundamental persecution or even a detesting of homosexually accused people. As a minority, you can also say: as a marginal group; I would rather be able to count on the tolerance of the majority in connection with homosexuals but rather the word "minority" – but they must also note that they are a minority. - That's the way it is. High house! On the one hand, my group and I are concerned with the protection of young people in the sense and in the effort to ensure that as few of as many young people as have not yet decided are guided towards homosexuality, and on the other hand that there is tolerance and understanding towards those who are clearly homosexual. This objective, on the one hand, and this tolerance and understanding of homosexual adults, on the other, are associated with our requests. If you are serious about this, you will admit that our requests are trying to take these two things into account equally. I have one of them here on behalf of my group. One step ahead to better understanding: In this request for freedom of movement, the aim is to separate advertising for fornication with animals on the one hand and advertising for sexual acts on the other hand and, as a consequence, a different level of punishment for the principle of maintaining the prohibition of advertising on the other. – There is a difference as we believe. This amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7527	The proposed amendment is supported in accordance with business rules and is included in the negotiations. Mr Schrefel has now spoken. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7552	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The application for the abolition of §§ 209, 220 and 221 arouses strong interest in our society and in the media. The vote in the House is certainly expected to be very excited and is expected to be a "simultaneous" vote. The proposed criminal law changes are in a concrete context with the social policy attitude towards the family and with responsibility to children or young people. 90 per cent of the Austrians do not understand that the priority of youth protection should be sacrificed to such marginalist charges. In 11 other European countries, the age of protection is equal to or higher than it is currently in Austria. The accusation that the current legal regulations were obsolete and had to be adapted to the time and development is an empty formula. In my opinion, the reference to progress or time is empty and therefore insignificant. Has it not always been possible to purchase environmental pollution in the name of progress? In the case of alleged discrimination against homosexuals, which you always emphasize, it must be said that there is no legal discrimination, since such acts are attributable to privacy among adults and are not subject to any restriction. However, we believe that access by adult men to young people should be assessed differently. In fact, it is not about homosexuality, but about sexual affection. Adult to children or young people both sexes, which means that these adults are pushing into the lavish development phase of young people aged 14 and over. In fact, it is not a question of whether a 19-year-old who is with a 17-year-old should be criminalised. Rather, we guard against the impoverished representation of the serious health threat from homosexuality. The last quarterly report of the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin for Germany points out that in the case of new infections of the infection path, the proportion of homosexual contacts is 66 percent. It must be said that in the past hearing of the Committee on Justice, neither the inaccuracy and inconsistency of the overall phenomenon and its causes nor any related health problems were raised. In addition to being able to solve the factual problem, the intentional deletion of the paragraphs would certainly not result in other signaling effects on youth protection, parental education and the right of parents, the status of marriage and family, and so on. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann and Mag. Barmüller.]] The legal significance is decisive. Even during the last criminal reform under the then Minister Broda, this significance was confirmed and a corresponding regime was adopted. There is also an important general preventive effect. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party! If you talk about this topic outside the communities with the citizens, even with members and officials of your party who are quite serious, you can see that many cannot understand and do not want to believe that your party, in particular, wants to reduce the age of protection to 14 years. I also think that Mrs Gabriele Binder's statement, which, as a family spokesperson of the SPÖ and as a representative of a children's organization yesterday, was very unscrupulous. In fact, the minimum age for homosexuals has been mixed with the issue of child protection, and as a result, voluntary action between two young people must not be criminalised. – Those who want to abolish current legal protection should confess to this, but do not try to distort or dissuade facts. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that you will decide very responsibly on this issue and that you will take due note of both the social policy considerations and the real consequences for our young people over individual party interests. We are convinced that the maintenance of criminal law is not only in line with the will, but also with the well-being of the people of Austria as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7628	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate – and I hope at least – is crucial to the formation of opinions of those Members of this House who can now prove their honesty. In fact, some of these colleagues – I know that from many conversations – were unsure inside of them how to decide in this case. I hope that they are aware that in the exercise of a political mandate, it is not always or exclusively – in fact, it should be the rarer case – that it depends on how the group has positioned itself, but on how to position itself personally. If our mandate in this House is justified, it is also because we are committed to our conscience and, of course, also to the Republic of Austria, but that no tactical political interests may exist between our conscience and the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] From my point of view and from the point of view of the Liberals as a whole, it is not possible for us to put the criminal code between people who are committed to the criminal code in the field that I am keenly interested in here – there are other materials on the agenda that I will not turn to. It is not the duty of the criminal legislator to lay down rules that will punish the affection between people when they express themselves in physical proximity. It is, I believe, partly a language confusion. If the protection and protection age are spoken, then the linguistic uncertainty becomes evident. This becomes clear when you think of it as it is in the present case. My club wife, Mrs Schmidt, has already pointed out this in her speech, but I would like to take it up once again because I fear that it has not been understood by all. If I want to protect someone, I have to ask myself what. Of course – and in this respect, I believe, there is no conflict among colleagues in this House – it is our duty to protect against the need, violence and the exploitation of dependencies. This is our duty, and this is also expressly enshrined in our criminal code. In his statement, the Federal Minister pointed out that these areas of law were not affected. These legal fields are not dependent on any age either. Perhaps the need for protection increases with declining age, but I believe that necessity, violence and the use of dependencies may not be allowed even to adults, full-years, or as old as one may be. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The linguistic uncertainty that has taken place here by putting the age limit under which sexual relations between men, if both are male, are punished, differently than if this is not the case, expresses an evaluation that is simply unbearable. In the end, there is a moralizing position which requires certain assumptions to be applied to the fact that, when it takes place in a particular age zone, the love between men is something too punishable, which must be punished, which must be punished, because it is not acceptable to society. However, this will open the door and door to the approach that moralising positions can be used to justify criminal law stocks. And this is a very, very serious mistake, because there is no evidence at all, as always, that it is actually a correct argument. We must be aware of the fact that we are using a circular conclusion here in order simply to hold a position that we know has finally been incorporated into the European legal systems for quite other reasons in the last century. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm asking you now: Why is it in the field of affection between people, in the field of love different from, for example, passing from one religious community to another, in which, as my clubwoman has already suggested, uniform age limits for boys and girls exist around 14 years old? Why do we believe that we need a differentiated age limit? I hope that at least some of you will help in your own way of thinking that you realize that there is no reason at all to proceed with a differentiated age limit. Another important aspect of the closing of the circle: The view that is behind the need for those who want to keep the age limit we are discussing here high, the belief that homosexuality is in principle pathological, is reinforced in an almost perfect way by putting people under severe emotional pressure at a given stage of development and therefore occasionally affecting their development psychopathologically negative. Then, if these people who were held under pressure or under criminal law threat, so that they could not go through positive emancipatory development, occasionally had difficulties working out that, and therefore sometimes had problems, it is used as proof that it was right to suppress them in advance, to dispel them emotionally. This is, I believe, a law which, and in the subcommittee, I have been told, clearly recognizable in the expert hearings – has the result that there can be a mental deformation of those concerned, and it is thus a criminal provision that is illegal to human rights. In my opinion, if we do not abolish this provision, we become perpetrators ourselves. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to impose any evil intention on colleagues who are still changing in their opinion, who believe that they must maintain the status quo, but apparently too many are willing to take it into account. But if we know that it is so, and we buy it, then we will eventually apologize. We can't say: I wasn't there, and we can't say, I didn't know what the consequences were! Ladies and gentlemen! I really ask you to consider what it means when a member of the government, like Federal Minister Michalek, who is not suspected of being a radical reformer, places balance at the centre of his work and sometimes progresses a little too slowly from our point of view, when such a person from this government bank expresses quite clearly and objectively and calmly, there are no clear arguments for him, in fact, why this should not be so, as is required in the request of Mr Fuhrmann, Mr Schmidt and Mr Stoisits, who has been brought in today. The Federal Minister cannot see from his responsibility – and he is responsible for this area – why this reform should not come. – This is a very polite, very reticent, but unmistakable form of expression that the competent Federal Minister believes he would like this reform. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think that this should perhaps be done by all the colleagues who are still changing how they are going to decide to make it easier to give their approval to this request. The individual maturation of a single person cannot be made by any age limit, however set. We all know that age limits – 14, 12, 10 years – which we sometimes need, in the field of school organisation, in the field of criminality, in all these areas, cannot cover the most personal individual cases. There are people who develop faster, others develop slower. But we have to confess at some age, and 14 is a very good age. That's what my club wife has already explained. Of course, each of these age limits, including the age limit, is ultimately a willful one, formed from life experience. But there are 25-year-olds who are still quite immature. Therefore: Brackets You do not deal with individual cases that may have been reported to you where the age limit would not have "skinned". It is a matter of the majority, and we know that our growing youth today is emancipating much faster and earlier than it was 100 years ago. Just think about how self-conscious, how expressive and how emancipated children are today when they are the 14. It is a matter of course that we have exceeded the age of life with which we expect them to take over tasks with increasing independence at a teaching centre. Or think about how self-employed they join and work together in schools, organise themselves in youth associations, participate in sporting events, do some of the best in certain areas, and all of this much earlier than 100 years ago. In our society, emancipation has accelerated. This is an important aspect, because all these phenomena are important for a consideration of the age limit for which it is useful. That is why I would like to ask you once again: Consider, honestly, that what is decided here today in this House means to many, many people, that they are freed from discrimination and suffering, and that no one is harmed. People are harmed when violence, when need, is exploited when dependence is exploited. It is precisely these areas that remain completely untouched. I can only hope that we will experience a double star hour here today, when not only an objective discussion has led to a real vote, but also Austria at last meets the human rights standards in which our country really depends. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7789	Member Dr. Löschnak has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7810	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With regard to all the value of the previous discussions on this package of justice, I would like to address that part of it, which was really very important for the people, is and will be because it contains access to the law. I mean the 4th. Novelle on the District Court Organization Act for Vienna. Federal Minister! I think the amendments made in this amendment are a very essential step in the right direction. I really think it is gratifying and positive that this novel for the Vienna region will bring about an approximation with regard to the competences of the district courts in the other Länder. That's good, pleasant and positive. I also think that the resultant consequence is good, happy and positive, because it is about or will be necessary to implement the establishment of the courts and the adaptation of the buildings accordingly. These are benefits that will befall both citizens and staff. But I have not only spoken in order to highlight the positive, but also to encourage you at the same time to make this adjustment, which is being made in Vienna, Austria-wide. It is clear to me that there will be a number of difficulties, in particular political difficulties, because the heads of state must be heard in the case of changes in the judicial organization and that there should actually be a streamlining of the district courts, no country captain is pleased. I believe that the political situation will be a positive one after the federal and national consultation mechanism is overdue and that the time has come to continue this adjustment throughout Austria. Minister of Justice! They have received the corresponding declarations of support in the Constitutional Committee. I therefore believe that this adjustment should also be implemented or continued if changes resulting from such adjustments are not only welcomed at present. It is about future construction, and in the future such an adjustment will simply have a positive effect, because it will bring a better range of offers and because this improvement in the offer will achieve a higher quality for the right-looking citizen. Therefore, once again: These 4. Novelle on the District Court Organization Act for Vienna is a pleasing approach for Vienna. It should also be an approach to enlargement across Austria. My group, Minister of Justice, will be happy to support you in this further project.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7864	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7886	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say to those who still believe that § 209 must be maintained, that I believe that these people are completely unaware of what really happens in our society and what people with homosexual tendencies need. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ! Homosexuality is not a disease as you have found. You should already know that if you had given up only some of the documents on health matters. Your definition alone shows that you have no idea at all and that you try to defend yourself with hands and feet against the fact that homosexual men in society are considered to be equal partners. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you that, by preventing the removal of § 209, you only achieve or maintain that young men are forced to continue to live their sexual orientation as it would be unreasonable for a heterosexual. Homosexual men have the right to love and partnership. This right must not be restricted by anyone. It's about equal rights, it's about equal treatment. If you don't equal men with women, it's not equal. It is no longer to be maintained, to say that men aged 14 are not yet mature enough to know what sexual inclination they have, while you very well accept it in girls. I would like to tell you that the fact that a man is homosexual or not is not a matter of decision, but of whether he is a man or not. Disabled people cannot opt for or oppose disability, but they are born in this way. I didn't have 14 years to make it clear to myself whether I wanted to be disabled or not. I'm disabled, and homosexual men are homosexuals. Even if you keep saying that you want to protect the youth, it doesn't take you any more. For if you really wanted to protect youth, then you would have to be prepared not to continue to discriminate against homosexual men between the ages of 14 and 18 and not to continue criminalizing men who are over 18 years old and who have contacts with minors. They are absolutely not about protecting young people, but they are still about maintaining your wrong moral attitude – and this is a change! If you still want to prevent homosexual men from living the way it does non-homosexual men do, then you really do great harm to these people. I do not think it is unknown to you that young people, if they do not have the opportunity to live their sexual orientation, can suffer great psychological damage because they have to hide for years. And that must be prevented in the future! Give all people the right to love as they want, and to love those they want – without restrictions!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7940	Mr Dr. Schwimmer has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7961	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, like my previous speaker Dr. Lösnak, I would like to be a Viennar to the 4. Novelle of the District Court Organization Act for Vienna speak. However, a few comments made by my predecessors on the Causa prima of this judicial debate prompted me to say a few very clear words. I take personal note of this, but also of the members of the EIA, of the fact that we want discrimination against a human group. No one wants discrimination against homosexuals! - To say that clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a kind of legend in the room – the previous speaker has just done so again – that it is forbidden to have homosexual contacts between 14 and 18 years of age. – It is the same homosexual activity among adults as the homosexual activity among the same-age adolescents. And that the sexual affection of a youth – whether heterosexual or homosexual – will be more likely to turn to an equal age or a little older than a much older person, I think each of us will be known from our own experience of life. So this is in no way a question of discrimination, but it is – and this is what we are dealing with – about the issue of protection of young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In today's issue of the newspaper "Die Presse" a guest comment has been published, saying that every culture, which strongly separates between homosexuals and normals, thus reveals a close view of human nature and is blind to real diversity and thus to the gradations and nuances of human sexual behavior. To this end, I must say: This applies, at least in the same way, to the attitude in which one thinks, with a reduction in the age of protection from 18 to 16 or to 14 years, one takes into account the diversity, the qualifications and nuances of human sexual behavior. – That’s just not the case! The sentence, which has been said several times, that if consent is given if no dependence is exploited, the criminal law must not interfere, is a dangerous sentence. It'll be clear to you if you think about it. Because as a result of this, the pedophile charge is, of course, no longer to be punished by the criminal law. And it is also referred to in the context of § 209 – the boundaries are just running there – here. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of you will also have received an anonymous letter from someone who complains about what he is not allowed to do. Especially the parents then prevented him from living in a love relationship with a 13 - year - old Bosnian boy. The Bub agreed. But in what form he agreed... [[Abg. Arbitrator: Who knows if the letter really was!]] The letter was humanly very touching in itself; I can imagine that it was real. A speaker of the homosexuals has accused us of hearing in the Committee on Justice – Mr. Schieder, I do not want to mention the name here now, although he has been aware of it – of what inhuman behavior we show. He told from his own youth how he fell in love with the gymnasium as a 13-year-old – and he was forbidden to live out this tendency. Well, that would have been forbidden to him in the cancellation of § 209, for two reasons: because of the dependency relationship with the teacher and because of the age of 14 years, which you also want to maintain. The boundaries are flowing, and the classification and nuances of human sexual behavior are not taken into account. It is claimed that the use of dependence is sufficiently sanctioned by the criminal law. Let us assume that the 13-year-old Bosnian Bub would have been not 13 years old but 14 years old and one day old and your request would have been accepted. If someone has a really bad childhood behind him, needs to live in very bad financial conditions in Austria and see that others are much better, and then someone offers him a much better situation, this is also the building of a dependency. Especially in homosexuality and in relation to male youths, the lack of fatherly affection is very often exploited, first of all this affection is built up or even played – the youth may not notice it at all – and only then does sexuality come into play. These circumstances – all from the point of view of dependence – cannot be covered by the criminal law at all, and therefore we must remain in our clear position: Youth protection takes precedence over any experiments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References== Novelle on the District Court Organization Act for Vienna. I believe that the measures that are now being taken are really very good and in the interests of the rightful citizens. The current division of competence, which we have in Vienna, was hardly transparent for those seeking justice, even for lawyers it was often impenetrable, and the responsibilities in the District Court area were hardly explained. That is why I think it is quite right – and I welcome this too – that the court of execution and the district court in Vienna should be dissolved. However, I also welcome the fact that we have taken account of the rather unilateral protests, both of the parties concerned and of the lawyers as well as of the judges, and that the District Court for Commercial Affairs, Vienna, which is a very competent court of law, continues to exist. I also think that further development in the area of local competence of the District Courts of Vienna is right. I hope that the next step – and I say this in particular as a representative of the Leopoldstadt and Brigittenau constituencies – is to create a district court for the 2nd and 20th centuries. District and the creation of a district court road for the 3rd and 11th districts. It will be followed very soon, I believe, that it is very important for the people seeking justice there to have a district court near them. I think that is a strength that our District Courts are right to enjoy the trust of those seeking justice. And this should not only remain so, but also be expanded in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8027	Mr Riedler has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8048	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think it is worth taking a short look at the statements made by Mr Schwimmer. Deputies! You mentioned an example and used it as an illustration for your political attitude. This was the example of a 13-year-old young man who is seduced by his gym teacher or seduced by his gym teacher – no matter what. Mr. Schwimmer! You know as an old rabbit in this house that this would, of course, be punishable after this novel, because it would be the use of an authority relationship and... [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: I said that too! You didn't listen! The example brought to the Committee by a representative of the homosexual initiatives – as a sign of discrimination! The example is not mine!]] Yes, I'm just telling you, of course, that nothing would change at all. And that is not only brought by you, but there are always such examples. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is what the homosexual initiatives themselves have brought! Didn't you get that?]] – Listen to me, colleague, don't get upset like that! I'm coming to talk to you right away. – These are time and again those examples that are brought to discredit in reality these intended legislative novels, which I consider to be very reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwimmer said, among other things, that it is not a question of discriminating someone. And now I ask you directly, Mr. Schwimmer: Mr Schrefel, whom I have listened very closely, said about the following: Some advocates keep saying that this is a matter of progress, and that would be comparable to the example that we have repeatedly called for technical progress and at the same time overlooked the fact that pollution is associated with it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where, if it has become possible to compare here in this place the problem of homosexuality with pollution! This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. And that is discriminating! Of course, we are trying to discriminate here, and I believe that it is not clear enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] My dear colleagues from the FPÖ! I would like to have quotes spoken because I think a lot about not only bringing one's own opinion, but also showing what else is thought and said. I'm allowed to quote briefly: I am in favour of the replacement of all the remaining homosexual exceptions in the Criminal Code. This is mainly for two reasons: on the one hand, because their maintenance seems hardly acceptable compared with the situation in almost all other European countries, on the other hand, but also because any criminal threat contributes to pushing homosexuals into the underground, so to speak. In the age of AIDS and in the interests of combating this disease, however, maximum openness and transparency are urgently required in this area. I am in favour of the claims made by homosexuals concerning other legal areas, such as social security law, rental law, inheritance law and the right to share. This is both qualitative and quantitatively a clear demand leap. In the National Council, when it comes to abolishing the remaining criminal provisions for homosexuals, the vote should be completely free. There will be both pro- and anti-votes in all political groups, including in the free movement of persons. This was said by Dr. Harald Ofner, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, as a member of the Committee on Justice in 1992. He was sorry about the shift, said your partyobmann Haider. Haider's preference for the abolition of the age of protection was already in the 11th century. ==References====External links== And once again, in a letter to me, he specifically referred to the fact that he is in favour of the abolition of these sanctions. The "platform against § 209" has also conducted intensive discussions with "F" and VP delegates in recent months. At least Morak, Steibl and Brinek have expressed their support for the abolition of the ÖVP. Of the "F", six Members definitely agreed to vote in favour of the abolition: Haider, Krüger, Meischberger, Ofner, Schweitzer and Trenk. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this would be a very clear sign and at least give the hope that the spilled liberal roots in the FPÖ will come to a break back there and there. I have not given up hope, and I still hope that there will be a vote in which we will have a majority in favour of these beliefs which I support and expressly acknowledge. – I’m looking for you, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8110	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. Please, honourable Member. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8132	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! If one considers today's debate and, above all, what has already taken place in the run-up to this debate, then it becomes clear that the excitement in this context is diametrically linked to the real problems of the majority of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The majority of Austrians know very well that Austria has greater problems than reducing the age of protection for young people in homosexual attacks. In any event, we believe that there is no reason to reduce this age of protection, and we protest against discrimination or exclusion from minorities being spoken of, and we also guard against any presumption that our position would be discrimination against minorities or homosexuals or gays or gays. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's it! What else?]] It is not about exclusion, ladies and gentlemen - take note! – it is not about discrimination, it is only about reducing the protection of young people from sexual assaults, and whether a possible threshold should be further reduced. That's why it's all about nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why are young women not then protected?]] I believe it to be revealing with which penetrance the gay and lesbian movement has made public pressure here: through letter actions, through press conferences, through broadcasts. It has been tried by publishing the names of Members at the same time also to lead them to a certain voting behaviour. [[Abg. May. Chamberlander: This is living democracy!]] This went down to the degoutant Bishops-Outing, with which one had nothing else in mind to discredit and devalue all those institutions and persons who represented a different value in this context. The said bishops should be deunified, they should be devalued, they should be placed in the reactionary corner. That was the strategy that was clearly recognizable. However, this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately falls back on those... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Mr Kukacka! You're already in the reactionary corner! She can't be put there any more!]] In my view, the position is clear, and I am grateful that I am not on the same side of the barricade as you are in this regard. I would also like to have said this clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, your attitude and the attitude of the lesbian and gay movement do not make any good sense, especially nothing good of that spirit of fairness and tolerance, which is so loudly demanded of you, but which you yourself are not willing to observe. That is what the events of the last weeks have shown! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: It's not very tolerant to lock people in!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's clear to us: The current ban on the same-sex movement between adults and male persons under 18 years of age, i.e. with minors, is intended to provide these minors with the necessary protection from any misadvantages and, above all, from abuses of homosexual adults during the period of sexual maturity. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about the women?]] In our opinion, the State is very much responsible for providing protection against adult sexual assaults to male young people. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not the female youth?]] That is the task and duty of the state! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And so we also see the homosexual paragraphs as a protection paragraph for young people in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Riedler: Read the draft before you talk!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Undisputed must be – and the hearing, I believe, has also proved – that homosexuals, like all sexual assaults at youth, are very difficult to deal with and are therefore particularly harmful. I don't want to go into the theories about the origin of homosexuality. There are a variety of polluter theories, of which no one has ever been able to claim to be the ultimate right: genetic factor, hormonal condition, learned preference, family factors. All these examples have been mentioned. However, it is certain that no final judgment has yet been made and that there is no scientific evidence that would make it clear that one or the other cause would be decisive. In any case, one thing is certain: Unlike at times in the published opinion often adopted and also promoted by the gay and lesbian movement, there is at least no study that would prove that there is a genetic or biological condition of homosexuality. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: So what? That's why they have to be locked in?]] Not at all! They only act and say: This is a genetic condition, man is defined, nothing can be changed here at all! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why do you want to change it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you that you are contrary to your other argument, because in the case of homosexuality you are calling She likes – and Mrs Schmidt has done this quite concretely – on biology and genetic determination. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: No one did that!]] But otherwise, this biologist and the comparative research that builds upon it are always a political abomination, because this is contrary to your other political behavioral behavioralism, which is known to see the blame for all the evils of this world always in social conditions. It should only be reversed in this case, ladies and gentlemen. We don't mind. We have no problem with this theory, but you see that your argumentation here is very moving, and you have to take refuge here once, which you will always use as a reason for your own argumentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One reason for our being so consistent with the age of protection is also that we want to protect young people and children from those adults who are interested in sexual contact, especially with the young age group, from so-called pedophile adults who, with their sexual disorder, do not, with their sexual neurosis, be afraid of attacks on young people. [[Abg. Wabl: The only problem is that the Khol has seduced the Amon and the Morak on this question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also know – and this has proved quite clearly and clearly the survey or the hearing – that there is also the children's and young people's line in connection with pedophilia and homosexuality. No one will be able to argue that there is this youthful line and that it is more than average frequented by older men and homosexuals. This too has long been demonstrated by appropriate studies. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about the women?]] The reduction, ladies and gentlemen, of the age of protection to 14 also means that adult men have the so-called right to have sex with 14-year-old boys. No one can want that. We certainly don't want to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we also think that what is foreseen in the traffic light, namely the reduction of the age of protection to 14 years, is clearly too low. We know about Helmut Zilk, who in the "Kronen Zeitung" pleaded to continue to protect minors from adult seduction. At least it is not possible to discuss a reduction in the age of protection to 14 years, says Helmut Zilk. And if you don't believe us, Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, at least you believe Helmut Zilk! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Because it was always said that the Constitutional Court or even the European Commission on Human Rights would be against our provisions: To this end, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court considered § 209 to be constitutional and that there were no doubts based on the principle of equality against that provision. The same applies to a judgment of the European Commission on Human Rights on the basis of an Austrian complaint, which could not find any discriminatory treatment in the different age of protection. Ladies and gentlemen! This section is therefore not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This is clearly and clearly defined by a corresponding judgment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that we do not consider it a goal to compromise on this issue as it has been proposed today. We believe that 18 years is the right age. The People's Party will therefore not deviate from its position, and Mr Klubobmann Khol has also stated this clearly and clearly. That is why the EIA has tabled an amendment, and our request leaves it to the current age of protection for the reasons set out above. And the term "simultaneous fornication" which has been included in the criminal code so far, which no longer corresponds to language use, is to be replaced by the term "sex action". A tolerance limit should also be introduced in the sense of a genuine love relationship between young people. Homosexual relations between adults and minors should not be punishable if the age difference is less than two years old. Furthermore, sodomy – so that homosexual contacts are not called in a provision with Sodomie – is to be released from the homosexual paragraphs and captured as its own crime. However, the ban on advertising and association education should remain in place, but can only be punished if public nuisance is aroused. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask all of you in this House to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8456	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr Karlsson has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8481	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to take a very firm stand against the argument that my previous speaker has also applied here. Before any more or less controversial matter, on which we are voting here in this House, we receive in our capacity as Members of Parliament letters of representatives of interest, of various groups, of church organizations in which we are asked how we will vote in the matter. That's legitimate. But this legitimate right also has the lesbian and gay movements! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is therefore also legitimate for them to publish the answers they are given, especially in pre-election periods. No longer and no less have these organizations done – as have so many others, such as church organizations, on issues of abortion or legalization at the time. Again: I am opposed to this argument, which has already come a few times from your side. [[the speaker looks towards ÖVP]] Second point: I am one of the few here in this House who has participated as a political active, namely as a young student official, the argumentation and discussion of the first, the small reform of criminal law; Parliamentary Ofner is also one of those. At that time, 30 years ago, the draft government in 1966 painted the following horrors on the wall: First: The release of so-called simple homosexuality among adults will result in conversional formations of homosexuals, to Cliquen, which will undermine the Austrian state and the Austrian administration. Secondly, Homosexuality will become fashion, and young people will be seduced to such an extent and the public will be corrupted to such an extent that heterosexual connections and marriages will only fall. None of these arguments or horrors have proved true in the 30 years since 1966 when we made this reform. But the seduction argument now appears unchanged again in the discussion. Third argument: How credible are we? I have an opinion here, which is contrary to what Mr Kukacka read earlier here. Quote: According to the principle of equality before the law – Article 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but also Article 7 of the Constitution – the treatment of men and women with regard to acts of gender equality still anchored in § 209 does not appear to be acceptable. This area of privacy is also to be attributed to Article 8 of the MRP. – This opinion comes from the Austrian Human Rights League, and the Chairman of the League is Mr Höchtl. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the credibility of talking outside and voting differently? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is a good thing – the Foreign Minister is unfortunately not here. [[Calls: He's there.]] He's here. I am pleased that you are here, Minister of Foreign Affairs. In a press conference in Luxembourg, together with your colleague, Dini, you have made an excellent statement – and you are our all foreign minister, Austria’s foreign minister – that human rights and, among other things, the prohibition of discrimination due to sexual tendencies in the EU should also be subject to sanctions. There is a quote from this press conference from you that applicants who do not sign these points should not be included in the EU. I fully supported that. I therefore wonder why your group is doing quite a different thing here, namely adopting discriminatory provisions. But maybe you'll change your mind. This time, as in the case of name, the argument was also put forward: Don't you worry about others, there are so many other problems to solve? This question concerns very few! . This criminal provision, which is really about the proposal for criminal law, is still much, much worse, because there are people suffering that would be avoidable. We are also responsible for this group, even if it is only a small group. In this case too, we have to decide human laws. We must not act in the light of how many people are affected by a law, but in what way it is concerned. I think it is very strange for a group that is in favour of a Europe that is united, which is strong, that it wants to maintain criminal sanctions, on the basis of which someone who, for example, is an honorable citizen in Denmark or Germany, becomes a criminal in Austria. In any case, we are against it. That is why I ask you to abolish these criminal provisions with our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8535	Mr Herzegovina is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8557	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! After the careful argument of my predecessor on another subject. I would like to say the following: Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna does not allow the reform of the District Courts in the federal states of Salzburg, Upper Austria and Styria to pass without again – for a recurring time – reminding them of the reform of the District Courts in Salzburg, Upper Austria and Styria. These are micro-district courts, where less than one court is systematized or between which distances are very low. The way of this reform is clear, it is about changing the transitional law 1920, which is to turn the consent of the state government there into a hearing, namely to a hearing of the state government when it comes to an explosive change in district courts. The Constitutional Committee has been clear since March this year. However, on the way from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, traps have appeared here, obstacles have appeared, blockages have arisen. Ladies and gentlemen! I call for further administrative reform in the field of justice to continue this year. I call for this issue to be put on the agenda of the National Council this evening. It would be grossly negligent for the Federal legislator to decide a judicial budget next year to see that waste resources are being used in such a way that public funds are not used properly. So let us clear the way for an efficient, economical court organization – both in Salzburg and Upper Austria as well as in Styria! Let us support the Minister of Justice. Mr Klubobmann Khol, help, at least do the right thing in this area of justice!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8593	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8614	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Whether by chance or not, I am rather a follower of the thesis that there are no coincidences, so perhaps it is not the case that this week, in which the days of violence against women have also been proclaimed internationally, Parliament is dealing with this subject in several requests. Also referred to in the 1996 criminal law amendment law is directly and indirectly. For example, in particular part, in § 83 of the StGB, the doubling of the basic penalty threat for body injury is generally supposed to send a signal against violent acts. In the valid version of § 195 concerning child withdrawal, the legislator assumed that the child's well-being would be best cared for if the child was raised or supervised by the child. For this purpose, a great deal of power was given to the person entitled to education without taking account of the fact that, long before the authorities have come to know about it, they too can become a perpetrator. If, through a more critical awareness in the public and also through media coverage, more and more child abuses become known in the public, then it is high time that the proposed version of § 195 finally focuses on the child's well-being as a priority goal. For example, the rewording of behaviour, which is usually not very pronounced by the close relationship between family and friends, leaves far more opportunities to avert physical and psychological suffering from children and also from young people. By the way, I noticed: It is now the Curious that only and only the marriage of a party constitutes a criminal offence. Also, the amendment of the criminal code to Sections 13, 221 and 300 often has to do with violence in the family. Most rapes are known to take place in the family, acquaintance and circle of friends. If so far the victim has had to describe all that was experienced with terror before a non-instantly different sexual court, and this often down to traumatic details, it has very often felt subjectively as a further humiliation by the opposite sex. The proposed provision that, as a minimum standard in a court, at least one judge or court and at least two jury members must belong to the victim's sex in a jury, will certainly help to alleviate or at best eliminate this feeling of humiliation. Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, Austria looks pretty old. It seems almost bizarre that the side jump can still be a case for the prosecutor. Then: Whoever breaks his or her marriage is to be punished with imprisonment up to 6 months or 360 day sentences. – That's what it says in § 194. The criminality of adultery is unique throughout Europe. In addition to Turkey, Austria is the only country among the Council of Europe where adultery is still subject to criminal prosecution. Even if there were only four convictions in 1994, it is high time that the present criminal law amendment would replace this untimely law. [[Accompaniment with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Oils.]] Many Austrians are no longer aware of this offence. I am sure that not a few will be decriminalized by the replacement of this crime. [[New applause with the SPÖ and acclaim of the Abg. May. Schaffenrath.]] Another antiquated provision, which has already been mentioned by the Green Member Terezija Stoisits, which is set out in the § 100 criminal code, namely the abduction of a wicked or defenseless woman, will unfortunately remain. However, we are not in favour of the amendment being accepted as it was tabled, but we believe that future reforms and reformers should be reserved. I am in favour of the paragraph being deleted without replacement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that homosexuals should not continue to be discriminated against.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8694	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8715	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing here today with a very emotional topic, a topic that people are also very interested in, because I have never seen as many listeners in the gallery as today afternoon. At the end of this debate, I would like to highlight this subject from two other sides, namely from the practical point of view of a doctor working in a children's hospital, which is connected with a great development psychology and child psychology, and from the point of view of a mother of a ten-year-old boy. The opinions on the development of homosexuality are very controversial and blurry. There are controversial opinions and comments. The fact is, however, that there is no demonstrable genetic determination in the development of homosexuality and no verifiable prepubertary embossing. All relevant statements are rebuttable by others. The sexual embossing arises of how a world picture arises at all: by observing the life of life and by experiencing it in itself. And this process is certainly not complete at the age of 14, at least at the age of 16. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a difference between boys and girls – we all know that – and there is also a difference in the same sex love between boys and girls, namely, those that in early homosexual contacts the further homosexual embossing in boys is much stronger than that in equal sex love between girls or in heterosexual love. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: How do you know that?]] [[A major contradiction with the SPÖ.]] 50 percent of the first contacts in love arise between the same sexes, and 50 percent are with older people. Imagine: 50 percent are with older people! [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And now we do not protect our children from relevant homosexual experiences, then their first acquaintance of love is a homosexual, then stop what they understand by first love, the beautiful, the valuable, what makes them happy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: All right!]] [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and to the Greens.]] – Listen to me! That is what they understand by love. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: All right!]] And they are no longer trying to make more heterosexual contacts. They don't try it at all anymore, because, and we all know that here, we have children, boys are also shy. It is sometimes much easier to find contact with a man than with a heterosexual, so to a girl. [[A major contradiction with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is, one robs the child of a possibility, one robs him of the possibility of the diversity of sexual experience and of experimenting with girls, which is quite natural and quite normal. That is to say, he is deprived of the choice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something else in this context: I have a ten-year-old boy. This is a sporty young man who goes to a sports club. His idol character is currently his coach. Well, that may be, that's quite natural at that age. At this age, the shoal is natural for a trainer or a teacher – as long as it remains in the shoal. The young people in their first sexual encounter do not see sexuality at all, but first of all the intimacy in the psychological sense. They think they are a person, a teacher or a trainer. Let us assume that this coach is a homosexual, has homosexual tendencies, and he now falls in love with a boy and exchange tenderness with him. Of course, this boy, for whom this man is an idol, will join in, and it will be his first sexual touch for him. This is pure worship from his side. I mean, however, that he must be given the opportunity to live up to his heterosexual contacts, and at least until his 16th birthday. Life-year must protect against one-sided sexual development. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not about discrimination at all! It is my personal attitude and my principle in life that everyone be Life should live as he considers it to be right, as long as he does not harm anyone else and as long as he does not limit anyone else in his choice. [[New calls to the Greens.]] That's why I'm asking: Let us protect our children in their development phase! Let's give them the chance to find their identity! Perhaps there is a youth who at the age of 16 knows exactly what his sexual orientation is and will always be. However, one thing is certain: There is a much larger group that is only looking for its sexual identity. Let's give these young people a chance to mature! Let us leave them alone so that they can find out where they really belong!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8836	Before I give the next speaker the floor, I recall that the first block ends at 4:24 p.m. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8861	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to comment today on three aspects: on the one hand on the issues of the criminal law change law and on the other on the primacy of the Causa, on the issue of the age of protection. We have today, among other things, the Criminal Change Act in treatment, which brings with it both substantial changes to combat organised crime on the one hand and a clear provision of protection for Austrian consumers on the other. Firstly, I would like to refer in particular to the provisions governing the depleting of the enrichment, which will allow for the disposal of assets acquired by criminal acts. On the other hand, I refer to the prohibition of winning and pyramid games. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My group fully acknowledges the rules on the levying of enrichment. However, I agree to draw attention to a problem. This problem lies in the current Financial Criminal Act. The question of the exclusion of the public is addressed here. According to § 213 of this Act, the exclusion of the public may be requested at any time. This exclusion covers the same view as the content of the judgment. In other words, this material must not then be used in the use process. I therefore believe that this provision should be removed without replacement, so that the depleting of enrichment can be actually and effectively carried out. The consumer protection provision, which we are really very happy about, is contained in § 168a of the Criminal Law Change Act and provides for a ban on chain and pyramid games. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Association for Consumer Information and the Chambers of Workers of Austria have been dealing with the problems of pyramid games for decades. We are known in about 200 games where the system consists of recruiting new members to pay the corresponding financial deposits to those who have started the game. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I remember the European Kings Club: Today, the process is taking place in Frankfurt am Main, which is around 7 to 14 billion schilling. Some 94 000 people in Europe are affected, some 32 000 of them in Germany and 20,000 in Austria. It's not about a few thousand schilling, it's about organized crime at billions! I remember the well-known clubs LCI and MCI, which have now entered the association Sarmani, where the same pattern is also worked. The actual business and profits are generated by the employees on the one hand by the snowball system and on the other by targeted marketing strategies. Each member of this association has the opportunity to return to its use or to achieve higher profits by recruiting new participants who, in turn, have to recruit new participants and so on. "TITAN" calls itself a pyramid game from Germany, which has become known in Vienna and Lower Austria. But you must not forget the international side either. There is, for example, the MSB megastar business game from the Federal Republic, which is currently coming from Switzerland to Austria. Or from Switzerland the "Plejadic Self-help – Project Earth" with which the organizers also want to "battle" large. Now, in a fundamental decision, the Supreme Court has found that pyramid games are forbidden gambling. Therefore, a legal regime in the field of criminal law was also necessary. This rule is now contained in § 168a of the Criminal Law Change Act. I say that this is a consumer-political success, which we should also represent in the public. However, I do not hide – and I can say this very critically here – that this will only be a consumer-political success if this law is applied accordingly by the prosecutors. I therefore call on you, Minister of State Michalek, to ensure that this provision is actually applied to the protection of Austrian consumers. Now to the Causa fine, on the question of the age of protection. You heard the arguments of my previous speakers. I would like to point out that there is a large number of fellow Members for our request. For example, I have the explanation of Austrian legal teachers. I would like to quote briefly: "In our view, all the special penalties on homosexuality, especially § 209, have become unnecessary in line with the vast number of medical and psychological expert opinions and in the light of international legal development. This no longer modern discrimination against the sexual orientation of a social minority by criminal law should be terminated, as there is no scientific or criminal interest in the continuation of these crimes." I personally agree with this view fully. I have also decided to quote from a letter that I received from the Catholic Men's Movement in Salzburg, which is also unreservedly committed to the abolition of this discrimination of homosexuals. I would like to read only the last paragraph of this paragraph to the address of colleagues from the EIA: "We support those parties that have already opted for the abolition of these paragraphs, and in particular encourage the ÖVP to agree to the legislative proposal in the new legislative period. We hope that there will be a change in the law in the sense of these statements." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This sentence of the Catholic Men's Movement Salzburg is no longer added by me. Finally, the following conclusion: The Austrian criminal law policy, such as the overall legal policy, must strive to respond to new social problems and needs and, for example, to find an adequate response with new instruments, for example in the form of the division. This is and remains the task of the Socialist parliamentary group. In conclusion, I call on all Members of this House to decide on their conscience during the forthcoming vote and to stand for a common age of protection within the meaning of the amendment tabled by Mr Fuhrmann, Mr Schmidt and Mr Stoisits. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Sections 209, 220 and 221 must be deleted without replacement. Human rights are not shared! Discrimination of homosexuals is to be eliminated by this Parliament today!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8949	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8970	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! There have been many arguments in this debate, there has also been a lot of polemics. I would like to refer to some of the arguments that I take very seriously. There were also arguments from the speakers of the ÖVP that deal with Christian values and the orientation of marriage and family. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Despite intensive study in the Bible, I find no evidence of discrimination against homosexuals. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I do not find a single quote from the mouth of the founder of this religion, and I think you should be very careful if you believe that you can be more Christian than Christ himself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It also raises the question: When it comes to discriminating gays and lesbians, does it help to promote marriage and family? . We have also raised this question in Vorarlberg's Landtag. Mr Landesrat Dr. Hans Peter Bishop answered us: There are no data available from the EU countries where there is no discrimination, indicating that the abolition of the criminality of homosexuality poses some threat to marriage and family life. One thing, however, is right: Indeed, many marriages are under pressure. There are a lot of women under pressure above all! Do you know what these women need? – You need better social security, better labour market policy, better reconciliation between children and work! But what does not benefit these women at all is any discrimination against homosexuals! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] One thing, especially those who may still vary as they should vote: There are very many hypocrisys in this debate! It seems that many do not bother that although sexual contact with men under 16 years of age should be punishable, in various media, even in newspapers, barbusy 15 - year - old girls, young women, are regularly depicted. It does not bother some, either, when they call sexual crimes against children and young people in a breath of homosexuality and love. One has nothing to do with the other! I would ask you to consider one more thing: 14 years, this is a border, including in our legal order. At the age of 14, young people are able to work, pursue a profession, they are criminal and civil responsibility for their actions. They are – often even younger – objects of advertising. Business entrepreneurs turn to these young people for the purpose of advertising. But apparently they should not be old enough to love! I cannot understand these discriminations, and I do not see, above all, where the threats lie. And I don't see, above all, why it ended in the 20th century. It is still to be possible to maintain provisions that clearly differentiate and discriminate between men and women by the century! If you see, Mrs Povysil, a difference between young men and women by assuming that there is something like seduction, then it is precisely in this that discrimination. You seem to be much less disturbed when a 14-year-old young woman is " seduced" by a perhaps much older man, under quotation marks, perhaps in a way that she would not otherwise have developed. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one more thing: I assume that 14 years old – I emphasize: 14-year-old young men and women – very likely to be able to decide on their sexual orientation, and I do not see it as worse if they are orienting in a homosexual direction rather than in a heterosexual. – That does not mean differentiating when you really take young people’s decision seriously. I am only afraid of a kind of seduction, namely if, under the impression of club pressure, tactics or strategy, Members are to be seduced into voting against their consciences!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9061	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9085	Before we enter the votes, I shall inform you that the following communications have just been received from the Federal Chancellor's Office on resolutions by the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art Dr. Rudolf Scholtenwill be by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Caspar A member of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Hannes Farnleitnerby Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Nikolaus Michalek. We are now entering the voting procedure. I would ask the honourable Members to take a seat and the other people to leave the House. I shall take the vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on criminal law amendment law 1996 and the title and receipt in 409 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment and an additional request. Then the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Schweitzer and Mr Comrades submitted additional requests. Finally, the Members of Parliament have power. Dr. Fekter and Comrades submitted additional requests. In addition, there are several demands for nominal voting. I shall therefore vote on the amendments or supplementary proposals mentioned in each case in the order of the provisions concerned and taking into account the desire for a vote by name and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. With regard to the additional requests made concerning Sections 209, 220a and 221 of the Criminal Code, I will make known in detail the submission of these applications before the corresponding votes. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(15). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall therefore vote on Article I(15) as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled a further amendment concerning Article I(20). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Therefore, we shall immediately vote on Article I(20) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for a corresponding sign upon adoption. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 24a in Article I concerning the withdrawal of § 188. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to stand up for this supplementary request for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I now have an additional request from Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades concerning the removal of §§209, 220 and 221 criminal code. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Schweitzer and comrades submitted an additional application concerning § 209 of the Criminal Code, which provides for a reduction in the age of protection to 16 years. With regard to § 220, the Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and comrades request to reduce the level of imprisonment or fine. A new § 220a Criminal Code regulates advertising for fornication with animals. Debates of the European Parliament Schweitzer and comrades also the removal of § 221 criminal code. With regard to the above paragraphs, MEPs have power. Dr. Fekter and comrades also submitted additional requests. With regard to § 209 of the Criminal Code, the additional application mentioned above essentially provides for the maintenance of the existing legal situation. However, in the event that the age of the perpetrator exceeds the age of the youth by no more than two years, the freedom of punishment is provided. The amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades concerning § 220 StGB essentially maintain the existing legal situation. A new section 220a concerns a regulation concerning advertising of animals and is identical to the request of the Liberal Group. The additional application concerning § 221 of the Criminal Code provides for its revision. It is, as the President-in-Office of the Council also pointed out, in addition, that it is necessary to consider voting that request as the more far-reaching one that differs most from the existing legal situation. With regard to the additional amendments which have now been put forward, I would take the following line of vote: First to § 209 of the Criminal Code: First: Supplementary request by Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades. In the event of a rejection, the honourable Member's supplementary request shall be rejected. Wetlands and comrades, and in the event of rejection, addendum to Mr Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades. To § 220 Criminal Code: First, Mr Fuhrmann, Dr Schmidt, Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades. In the event of rejection, Mr Mag. Wetlands and comrades, and also again in the event of rejection, addendum to Mr Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades. To § 220a Criminal Code: The amendments tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schweitzer and comrades as well as Deputies Mag. I will vote for Dr. Fekter and comrades as they are completely identical in content. To § 221 Criminal Code: Supplementary request by Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as additional requests from the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and comrades, as they are also identical in content. Then addendum from the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades. I ask the House whether there are objections to this procedure. - That's not the case. I therefore proceed as described. Deputies Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional application concerning the deletion of § 209 of the Criminal Code. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request was made by 20 Members. The vote will therefore have to be taken. I have them carried out in accordance with good practice by handing down the voting documents. The ballots that are used for this are located in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the supplementary request of Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades are, "Yes" vote, those who vote against to throw "No" vote in the urn. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name. It will later be replaced by Mr Applebeck.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9265	The vote will end. I now ask the officials of the House to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the authors. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a short time. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 4:41 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9296	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote: 182 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 91, No voices: 91. The application did not find a majority and was rejected. I'm asking the visitors back to the gallery to take care of rallys. It disagrees with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes" the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Anshober, Antoni, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Fischer, Fox, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kier, Kiermaier, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kummerer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Löschnak; Maier, Marizzi, Mertel, Morak, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ofner, Oellinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch; Rada, riding, heron, Riepl; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Apfelbeck, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Holger, Bauer Rosemarie, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder, Brinek; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Ellwall; Fector, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, friend, Frieser; Gatterer, Count, Grollitsch, Grossruck; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Höchtl, Hofmann, Horngacher; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Koller, King, Head, Kröll, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Lauter, Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Madl, Maitz, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Mock, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Nuts, nuts; Partik-Pablé, Platter, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Sauer, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schrefel, Schreiner, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweitzer, Schweitzer, Spindelegger, Stadler, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stummful; Tichy-Schreiter, Trattner, Drinkl; Wenitsch, Wurmitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9472	Next, we shall proceed to the vote on § 209 of the Criminal Code in the version of the supplementary request of the Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and comrades. The vote has also been called for, with sufficient support for the request, and it is therefore being taken this way. – The procedure is known. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades vote to give 'yes' vote, those who vote against, I am seeking to cast 'no' vote in the urn. I would ask Mrs Schreiber to begin with the name call. Mrs Applebeck will replace them. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9508	Everyone's handed down the ballots. I therefore note that the vote has ended. The members of the House responsible for this task will make the number of votes under the supervision of the authors. For this purpose, I interrupt the session for the necessary duration. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9541	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to take the places. I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote: 179 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 41, "No" votes: 138. The amendment by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schweitzer and comrades concerning § 209 StGB is therefore rejected. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Tomb, groldish; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Hofmann; Young; Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Anchober, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freund, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Großruck, Guggenberger, casting builder; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Niederwieser, Nowotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9714	The next item is the vote on Mr Fekter and Mr Comrade's supplementary motion for a resolution on § 209. The vote has also been called for here, with sufficient support. We have agreed at the President's sitting that if the results of the votes are particularly narrow, the votes will be taken with a vote. It has now been signaled to me that in this vote there would be no objection to the somewhat faster call for names. However, I am still asking whether all members of the Presidential Conference agree? - Good. Then we will vote with the vote. We're prepared for both. In the vote with the vote, I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Mr Fekter and Mr Comrade's supplementary motion, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I would ask the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name. Mrs Applebeck will replace them. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9756	The vote will end. I would ask that the votes be counted in the usual way and that the sitting be suspended for that purpose. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 5:24 a.m. and resumed at 5.29 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9787	I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote: 179 votes were valid, 48 votes "yes": 131. The additional request of Dr. Fekter and Comrades concerning § 209 of the Criminal Code is therefore rejected. With "Yes", the Members voted: Auer; Bauer Rosemarie; Donabauer; Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Freund; Gutterer, big truck; Höchtl, Horngacher; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, King, Head, Kröll, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Maitz, Mock, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; wetter; Platter, Puttinger; Rasinger, smoke-callat; Sauer, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwimmer, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stumpful; Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl; Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Anchober, Antoni, Applebeck, Aumayr, Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dolinschek, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Firlinger, Fischer, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Graf, Gredler, Grollitsch, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Haupt, Heindl, Hlavac, Hofmann, Hostash, Huber; Jäger, young; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kier, Kiermaier, Koller, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Krüger, Kummerer; Lachner, Lammer, Langthaler, Leikam, Löschnak; Madl, Maier, Marizzi, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Mertel, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nuremberger, Nußbaumer; Oberhaidinger, Ofner, Oellinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch, Povysil, Pumberger; Rada, Reichhold, Reiter, Reiter, Riepl, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stadler, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, trattner, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wenitsch, Wimmer, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9954	We therefore proceed to the votes on the requests for § 220 of the Criminal Code. First of all, I would like to mention the supplementary request made by Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades concerning § 220 Criminal Code. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the supplementary request of Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades vote, "Yes" vote, those who are opposed to giving "No" vote. Ms. Reitsamer will start with the name call, Mrs. Apfelbeck will continue. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9993	The vote will end. I would ask the staff of the House to carry out the poll. I would ask you to do this very carefully and to interrupt the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 5.36 p.m. and resumed at 5.51 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10024	I would ask you to take the seats and resume the interrupted session. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 179, of which "Yes" votes: 90, No votes: 89. The additional request by Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades concerning § 220 Criminal Code is therefore adopted. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Anshober, Antoni, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Fischer, Fox, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kier, Kiermaier, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kummerer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Löschnak; Maier, Marizzi, Mertel, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ofner, Oellinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch; Rada, riding, heron, Riepl; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Apfelbeck, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Holger, Bauer Rosemarie, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brinek; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Ellwall; Fector, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, friend, Frieser; Gatterer, Count, Grollitsch, Grossruck; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Höchtl, Hofmann, Horngacher; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Koller, King, Head, Kröll, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Lauter, Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Madl, Maitz, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Mock, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Nuts, nuts; Partik-Pablé, Platter, Povysil, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Sauer, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schrefel, Schreiner, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweitzer, Schweitzer, Spindelegger, Stadler, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stummful; Tichy-Schreiter, Trattner, Drinkl; Wenitsch, Wurmitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10194	The vote on the motion will be taken at the next voting time. Sweitzer as well as additional requests submitted by Dr. Fekter and Comrades to § 220 of the Criminal Code. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. We shall vote on the requests relating to § 220a of the Criminal Code. I leave on § 220a criminal code, as amended by the additional requests of the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and comrades, as well as Dr. Fekter and Comrades, who are identical in content. There has been a call for a vote. The request has been made by 20 Members, so I shall proceed in this way. I would like to interrupt the sitting briefly to clarify a question raised to me regarding the further succession of votes and not to make a mistake. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.53 p.m. and resumed at 5.57 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10239	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the interrupted sitting to announce that I would ask the ladies and gentlemen attending the presidential meeting to attend a presidential meeting in my office for 6 p.m. I do not think we can solve any complex problems that we are discussing here in plenary. I am interrupting the meeting for this purpose. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.58 p.m. and resumed at 8.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10273	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll start the interrupted session again. We discussed at the President's sitting those legal issues that were raised and led to the interruption of the session. Finally, the result that the Bureau will address is that, following the adoption of the request by Mr Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr Schmidt, Mr Mag. Stoisits and comrades to § 220 of the Criminal Code will proceed as planned in the Croquis, namely not to vote on further requests for § 220 of the Criminal Code, but on § 220a of the Criminal Code, to the additional requests of Deputies Mag. We have Schweitzer and Dr. Fekter, who are identical and voted together. I now ask Mr President Dr. Neisser to take the presidency and vote on these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10303	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now voting on the requests relating to the § 220a Criminal Code. I leave on § 220a criminal code, as amended by the additional requests of the honourable Member Mag. Schweitzer and comrades as well as Dr. Fekter and Comrades. These applications are identical in content. It has been called on by 20 Members to vote on the motion for a resolution in this way. – The procedure is known to you. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the supplementary amendments tabled by the honourable Members. Schweitzer and comrades, as well as Dr. Fekter and comrades, vote "Yes" vote, those who vote against to cast "No" vote in the urn. I would like to begin by asking Mrs Reitsamer to start with the name call. Mrs Applebeck will replace them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10343	The vote will end. I now ask that the vote be taken and that the sitting be suspended for that purpose. [[Abg. May. Worm wants to put her seat in the urn.]] [[Protests with the liberals.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be anymore. I said: "The vote is over." [[Abg. Arbitrator: She was in the hall and went down! She's the last one!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Please, throw your ballot into the urn! [[Abg. May. Worm throws her seat into the urn.]] [[Call the liberals: This is incredible!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: She left in the last row!]] [[Abg. May. The President said: "The vote has ended."!]] [[Call to the Freeman:Patent-Democrat!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Superdemocratic!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: She made no mistake!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That should have been one of us!]] [[Abg. Don't talk, don't you think!]] The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 8.13 p.m. and resumed at 8.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10505	I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote: 182 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 93, No votes: 89. The content of the supplementary requests made by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schweitzer and comrades as well as Deputies Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades concerning § 220a Criminal Code are therefore adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, stating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Amon, Apfelbeck, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Holger, Bauer Rosemarie, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder, Brinek; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Ellwall; Fector, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, friend, Frieser; Gatterer, Count, Grollitsch, Grossruck; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Höchtl, Hofmann, Horngacher; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Koller, King, Head, Kröll, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Lauter, Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Madl, Maitz, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; Nuts, nuts; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Platter, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Sauer, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schrefel, Schreiner, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweitzer, Schweitzer, Spindelegger, Stadler, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stummful; Tichy-Schreiter, Trattner, Drinkl; Wenitsch, Wurmitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Anshober, Antoni, Barmüller, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Fischer, Fox, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kier, Kiermaier, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kummerer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Löschnak; Maier, Marizzi, Mertel, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch; Rada, riding, heron, Riepl; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schmidt, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10678	We now come to the corresponding votes on § 221 criminal code. In terms of content, there are identical requests from Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and comrades concerning the removal of § 221 of the Criminal Code. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request is sufficiently supported. The vote must therefore be taken in this way. – The procedure is known to you. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the supplementary requests made by Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and comrades vote, "Yes" vote, those who vote against to cast "No" vote in the urn. I ask Mrs Reitsamer to start with the name call, and Mrs Applebeck, to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10721	The vote will end. I would ask that the vote be taken and that the sitting be suspended for that purpose. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 8.28 p.m. and resumed at 8.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10751	I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote: 180 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 128, No voices: 52. As regards the content of the supplementary requests made by the honourable Member, Dr. Fuhrmann, Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades as well as Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and comrades concerning § 221 StGB are therefore accepted. The names of the Members will be recorded in the Stenographical Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Anshober, Antoni, Applebeck; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dolinschek, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Firlinger, Fischer, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Gredler, Grollitsch, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Haupt, Heindl, Hlavac, Hofmann, Hostash, Huber; Jäger, young; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Kier, Koller, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Krüger, Kummerer; Lachner, Lammer, Langthaler, Leikam, Löschnak; Madl, Maier, Marizzi, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Mertel, Morak, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter, Müller; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nuremberger, Nußbaumer; Oberhaidinger, Ofner, Oellinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch, Povysil, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rada, Reichhold, Reiter, Reiter, Riepl, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schreiner, Schweitzer, Schwemmlein, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stadler, Stippel, Stoisits; Tegic, trattner, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wenitsch, Wimmer, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer; Bauer Rosemarie, Brinek; Donabauer; Ellwall; Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Friend, Friser; Gatterer, Graf, Großruck; Höchtl, Horngacher; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, King, Head, Kröll, Kukacka, Kurzbauer; Leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Maitz, Mock, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Murauer; wetter; Platter, Puttinger; Rasinger, smoke-callat; Sauer, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwimmer, Spindelegger, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stumpful; Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl; Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10918	This vote does not give rise to a vote on the supplementary request submitted by Mr Dr. Fekter and Mr Comrades on § 221 of the Criminal Code. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This decision was taken unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This decision-making process shall also be adopted unanimously. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law on criminal enforcement Novelties 1996 and the title and receipt in 317 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 452 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this report...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10973	Enunciation is incomplete, Mr President. I would like to know which request was originally made. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 1/A!]] These parts of the Croquis have not been transmitted to us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11016	I shall now proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall see that immediately, namely: 452 of the supplements is the report of the Committee on Justice concerning the request 1/A by Dr Willi Fuhrmann and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code. This is indicated on the agenda as 452 of the Supplements. That is the subject of the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give a corresponding sign. This report was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 453 of the supplements. – Is there clarity about what this report is? - Yes. I ask those who give their approval to this report to give an appropriate sign. – This report is also adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 454 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This report is also adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 455 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This report has been adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 456 of the supplements. Whoever is for this note, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the judicial organisation law, the civil code and the criminal procedure, together with the title and receipt in 408 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. Mr Parnigoni! Voices You don't come with me? - Then you have to get up! According to the Rules of Procedure, it is said to be standing up or sitting. [[General hustle and bustle.]] I attach various consequences to this behavior. – I apologize for reminding you of this. So: The draft was also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law concerning the 4. Novelle on the District Court Organisation Act for Vienna, with title and entry in 373 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This draft was adopted unanimously. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to a sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (252) of the Supplements: Federal law on protection against Violence in the Family – GeschG (407 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11144	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item: Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (252) of the Supplements: Federal law on protection against violence in the family (407 of the supplements). There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Dr. Ofner spoke. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11171	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will be very brief, because the speaking time available to us is no longer very extensive. We liberals share the concern expressed in this project, namely the concern regarding the fight against violence in the family. However, we do not think that the proposal is sufficiently well thought out. If they were to become law in this form, the child would be poured out with the bath. We cannot imagine that all those who intend to agree to this proposal today have actually read it or, more than that, studied it. Because the possibilities offered by this proposal are so adventurous that they simply do not fit into "the fight against violence in the family" but go far beyond this project. I cannot imagine, for example, that the following really is true: A woman's marriage. She takes her husband into her house. The husband's brother is tracking. The wife does not deal with her husband's brother. She threatens him one day – for whatever reason – an ear fig. Her husband's brother is leaving the house. Two months later, against the will of the husband, he asserts that his wife, that is, his wife - in - law, is expelled from her own home. – I can't imagine that! But so it is in the bill! [[Abg. May. Peter: Awesome!]] Imagine this happening in the "White Rössl": Your wife picks up a relative. You do not put up with this relative, and he lets you get out of the house against the will of your wife. – I said that now so that you can imagine it more easily! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Another variant: A fifty - year - old son does not suffer with his 70 - year - old, somewhat agitated father. In the course of the dispute, the Son threatens the Father to cut him down – or vice versa; You can play it as you want. And then, for example, the son lets the father out of the apartment against the will of the mother. – You have to imagine that! What does this really have to do with the concern that we all committed ourselves to, namely, combating violence in the family? It's just too far, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not agree that you all really want it that way. I think that this presentation of an appropriate study needs to be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] Mrs. Colleague! What if someone is expelled from the apartment with the rental rights? The only main renter is thrown out, the master of the house can throw him out because of the lack of satisfaction of an urgent housing need! – Nobody thought of it either. I agree that you have not read the paper. But if you've read them, I'm really sorry. We liberals are in favour of stopping violence in the family. But we are also in favour of leaving the church in the village. We believe that it should not be enough for sanctions if someone threatens another violence, for example in the form that he says: You get an ear fig. We believe that a certain minimum level of violence should be required in this context. We also believe that the respective partners, i.e. husband, wife, partner, partner of life, and possibly also relatives in the ascending and descending line, i.e. parents, children, nurses, nurses, adoptive parents, adoptive children, should have an appropriate opportunity, but not the side relatives. It should not be possible for the brother-in-law and the brother-in-law to have the homeowner thrown out of his own house or the tenant out of his own dwelling. We liberals have therefore tabled an amendment which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11297	The amendment just tabled by Mr Dr. Ofner is, in accordance with business rules, supported and is included in the negotiation. The next speaker was Member Dr. Fuhrmann. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11321	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! In view of the relatively short time available to my group, and because of the hour ahead, I am unfortunately unable to address the comments of my predecessor in detail, but only with a few sentences. We have already discussed this in the Committee on Justice. In our view, we have already been unable to disprove this in the Committee on Justice. Everyone may have his opinion, but I am sorry, Mr Ofner, that your group does not agree with this federal law. For I think we could also agree with the "F" group that any form of violence constitutes a very serious social and health problem. Violence interferes negatively with the lives of the victims and leads to massive direct and sustainable physical and psychological damage to the victims with far-reaching undesirable social consequences. And especially, ladies and gentlemen, if the phenomenon of violence occurs in the family because it damages a special relationship of trust by the violent. I am therefore very glad that we are able to decide today on this legislative project, because it will add a big step – I believe: in my opinion and that of my group not the last step – in the fight against violence against women and children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Shame, Harald Ofner, that you want to deal with this essential issue at such a level! But this is your business and your good right! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is not defined in the law!]] I would like to highlight the essential points of the bill which are here: First: Security authorities and public security bodies are given more opportunities to help the victims through the granting of additional competences in the case of violence in the family, no longer just as it has been before, if there is already a criminal offence. That's very important. In connection with the Institute of Temporary Order, it is right – this is recognized when one is aware of what can happen in such families – that it is extended to a larger group of persons. I'm on it. The conditions will be depleted, and enforcement will be facilitated. The powers relating to disfellowshipping and repatriation in the home in the event of violence are improved in the interests of the victims. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is in the interests of the victims to take the steps we have taken for today, this is a law that everyone and everyone in this House can agree with with good conscience and joy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would add that we are even more forward-looking. The FPÖ could perhaps have voted against it with even more conviction. I would therefore like to announce that, in the view of my colleagues, today's decision-making cannot and will not be the end of the debate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The minister is already scared!]] For we will still have to discuss the establishment of intervention agencies and the anchoring of these intervention agencies in the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to discuss this further in the interests of the victims concerned. My group believes that it would be reasonable to introduce Special Divisions for Domestic Violence to courts and prosecutors. We already have family dishes in the field. I still think that it is right, in the case of serious crimes in the family, such as dangerous threats and rape, to continue to treat them in the law as a criminal of empowerment, as is the case now. These should also be standardized as civil offences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that this is not yet a majority in this House. That is why we will not be able to decide today. We will be very pleased to accept the proposal, and you cannot be angry if we get these things, which we would have liked to include in the law, in further political debate on life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11415	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11437	Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law on the Protection from Violence in the Family, which is scheduled for decision-making in the House today, also provides for an amendment to the Security Police Act. Afterwards, it will be possible for the incoming Gendarmerie official or police officer to act in the event of a risk of delay or in the event of a threat of danger with a directions order against the spouse or those who have shown a renite behavior. Furthermore, the amendment of the Security Police Act also provides that the individual executive may prohibit a return, which normally ends after 7 days at the latest, but in any case after 14 days, and which must be checked by the Security Authority within 24 hours. We had a very lively debate in the committee on this, and I am not happy about the nature of the discussion. It has also been deposited several times by our Judge Harald Ofner that we are fully in line with the idea of the law, but that we are concerned about the method of enforcement for constitutional matters. Because an executive body that is able to issue a directions order or issue a ban on return, which is very large, undoubtedly intervenes very strongly in the privacy and property rights of the person concerned. In the course of this debate, constitutional concerns have emerged because a matter which typically allows the civil courts to make decisions is transferred to the responsibility of the individual executive official. We know from discussions with the executive that the ladies and gentlemen of the executive are not very happy about this because they are particularly responsible. It is not a small thing to have a way forward and, moreover, to consider whether or not to prohibit return. Therefore, as we have said, with the intention of fully conforming to the law, we have tabled an amendment which does not completely eliminate constitutional concerns – I agree – but weakens. Because after the version of our amendment request, the ban on return is to end at 12 o'clock on the second day of its order, but at the latest if an application for interim order has been filed in the meantime, after eight days. We believe that the spouse or partner who has been threatened should take the initiative by submitting an application for an interim order and that it should be reserved for the court to have an expulsion or not. We believe that this amendment, at least in part, takes account of these concerns and invite you very cordially to accept them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11488	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please, you have the floor. Time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11512	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Who of us is not about reports of violent acts, yes, of murders within the family going through television, newspapers and radio almost every week? . We have already expressed a great deal about our concerns in this House, and I am very glad that we can decide on this right of designation today. Mr. Ofner! Just one sentence: I'm doing victim protection. - You're a culprit! – And your example is designed in such a way that I cannot understand it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Look at the law, Rosemarie! That's from the text!]] My concern is not to misuse the law, but really to the lives of the women concerned. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Can't you accommodate both?]] We know that the executives at present often have to deduct unproven things after they have calmed down on the aggressor and have no way of acting and protecting women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Under the current regulation, mostly women and children have to leave home and flee, move into women's homes, children have to go to other kindergartens or schools, women and children have to actually leave their previous food point. The aggressor, on the other hand, remains in place! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] I've never agreed to that, I can't understand that. On the other hand, the direction has always been our demand, and it must remain. Thank God we today have this right of directions before the decision is made, which says: The aggressive person must leave, we protect it or the victims. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm giving you the right thing, but it's not solved very well!]] After a new survey, every fifth woman in the family environment experiences violence, no matter what form of life she lives in, whether in marriage or in community. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The brother-in-law!]] The children are particularly poor, this is particularly tragic. We should not only deal with what we can regulate by the state, but we must also think about how to ponize violence from the outset and as a dissuasive example in order to act preventatively. We in the House can only be deterred by measures, which must be made very clear. Everyone is called to support us. It would also be important to get even deeper. In most cases, violent perpetrators have experienced violence in their families themselves. They pass on this violence like an infection, out of beaten sons becoming beating men. Of course, this can happen to women, but beating men are in the majority. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But rarely!]] Alcohol and drugs are also often in play: this is even more strengthening. There must therefore be a bundle of aid measures. The existing structures of assistance must be extended. I mean not only crisis intervention agencies, but also family advisory services and similar facilities. There is also a lot of facilities in rural areas, which should be used excessively. Finally, it will not be possible to deal with prevention in a wide range of areas. For example, women and children will have to be explained that they are not the guilty! The victims of violence often have guilt and often believe for a long time that they are guilty and have stimulated the aggressor, and often do not recognize what has actually happened. Mental violence is a accompanying phenomenon that is very difficult to grasp. I have to say: Whoever talks with such women and children in women's homes has so many concerns, so much sorrow and is so depressed, dear Harald Ofner, that he does not come to such an artificially pointed example at all, because the causes are much easier. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: From the brother-in-law! That's what I've been talking about!]] A short while ago, there was another measure that we are taking today. We have been trying very hard lately to punish the sexual abuse of children even more severely. Today we are continuing with the decision-making process. We prohibit the sexual abuse of minors abroad, the so-called sex tourism, in so far as a perpetrator, an Austrian, cannot escape from Austrian criminality as regards crimes committed abroad, but, in Austria, is sentenced to all that is punishable by Austrian law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Maybe you should take this to heart!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I have to give you that right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, these are two very important measures. I know the house is empty. The interest was devoted to a completely different point, and I am sorry. However, allow me to say that I believe that only these two points are far more important than what we have been doing for hours now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like them to be at least as attentive to the public as they would be to the public: These things are simply not desirable in society, and that is why we are punishing them! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The homosexuals are "interesting"!]] I hope and am convinced that this regulation will save many women, especially as a result of the ban on return or the solution within two weeks. I also mean that in the past she saved many women's lives! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11707	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11728	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Clarify this with the brother-in-law, Minister!]] Responsibility for violence, as well as other social policies In a comprehensive way, we are faced with all the opportunities available to democracy. These possibilities include, in particular, the means and methods of the formation of opinion and consciousness, pedagogy and education for non-violence and tolerance. However, the rule of law must also act decisively against violence with its instruments. In this sense, the legislative matter before you today for decision-making is an important contribution to the fight against violence in the family. This contribution is the result – I would like to express this – of an intensive social and legal discussion and of thorough legislative preparatory work, in which experts from the various relevant fields and the relevant departments have also participated. This draft law aims to address family violence through increased cooperation between security bodies and family courts. It contains, in addition to the above mentioned priorities – security police law, in any case linked to a return ban, improvement of the judicial interlocutory order by reducing the condition, extending the scope or also improving enforcement – as a further focus ensuring adequate compensation for victims of sexual abuse. In the course of the deliberations of the draft law on my proposal, the provision of § 1328 ABGB in the Committee on Justice is intended to ensure that, in the event of a breach of the sexual self-determination, appropriate compensation may be required, in particular immaterial compensation. This provision will not only benefit women and men injured by violence, deception or similar acts in their sexual dignity, but will also create the necessary condition under the previous legal situation for the immaterial compensation for the unfortunate victims of sexual abuse of children. Ladies and gentlemen! We are well aware in our efforts to achieve an appropriate solution that the proposed rules are in a tension relationship between the most effective protection against domestic violence on the one hand and the intervention into sensitive fundamental rights on the other. However, I believe that the clear and adequate conditions of the law, both for police direction and for the threat of a dangerous attack arising from certain circumstances, as well as for the adoption of a judicial interlocutory order, are sufficiently precise criteria for the State to enter into the area protected by the fundamental right of protection of privacy and family life in accordance with the principle of proportionality and the circumstances of the individual case in order to provide assistance to the victim in need. This draft law has also been criticised. Members of Mr Ofner and Mr Krüger have made contributions to this – but I do not think that it is sound or not comprehensible by me. However, this criticism is essentially contradictory: While the one side complains that the law is too wide a bow of possible measures, it is criticized by the other that the protection does not go far enough. The contradiction of criticism, but also the broad discussion of the legislative project and its thorough preparations strengthen me in the conviction that this law is a well-balanced instrument for effectively resisting violence in families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11766	Mrs. Konrad has now come forward with a speech. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11787	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of women, I would like to welcome this law on protection against violence in the family. The right of entry, the prohibition of return and the re-regulation of the interim order have set out important, efficient measures to facilitate the assistance of women and children in the event of violence. The perpetrator no longer remains in the apartment, there are no longer the victims who have to leave the apartment and seek refuge somewhere, but the perpetrator is rejected. I would ask you, Mr Ofner, not to construct any cases here. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I spoke of the brother-in-law standing in there, of the brother of the companion!]] The basic work for this law has been done by practitioners, by women who have been dealing with and offering assistance for more than a quarter of a century in practice, in women's homes, emergency services and advisory services, which is why this law is also a real success. The experience of the practitioners has been heard and has also been incorporated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Why don't you address my objections? Why are you talking about something else?]] I would therefore like to thank these women, the experts who have worked with them, but also those who have been involved in the interministerial working group and who have laid the basis for the fact that this law can be adopted at all today, very much! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not hide that we - I mean women in particular - had further ideas; Mr Fuhrmann referred to it. For us, the debate on this law has not yet ended, there are still many important considerations and measures to be taken, and we will continue this discussion. It has already been mentioned that the law can only work efficiently if we set up the intervention agencies against violence. These bodies are not competitive with other relief facilities, not at all, but should act as a hub between the victim, the police, the judicial system and the relief facilities that are absolutely necessary for the adequate care of the victims. These intervention agencies are particularly important. We strive for a clear legal anchorage, in which we also want to define which rights and obligations and which areas of responsibility these intervention agencies have. This also means that they must be financially insured. If we confess to violence, we must also be clear that it is not without money that we have to make financial resources available for it. We know that women's homes, emergency and advisory services are often not sufficiently insured and have to fight for survival again and again, that there are not enough facilities, that many women have to be rejected and that there are still federal states without women's homes. We want to be active in this direction, and I hope that if we bring in these projects, we will find broad support for them. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] One more word on the intervention agencies. They are necessary, and their establishment is not pushed to the long bank, even if the corresponding legal anchorage has not yet taken place. The Minister for the Interior and I have agreed that we will now continue to finance and promote some model projects. There are already projects in Vienna and Graz, namely concrete project offices which have already been set up. A pilot phase is already under way at the intervention centre in Innsbruck. Preparations are being made in Linz and Salzburg for this. I am also seeking support for the federal states. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11856	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11877	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I'll keep it here with Rosemarie Bauer The problem complex is burning and the trend is rising – which is aware of all in the Freedom Party. We are not the party of violent men when we were put on the SPÖ yesterday. I will vote in favour of this bill, but not because the law is so good. It is not sufficiently thought through in its consequences. We have tried to raise our concerns with an amendment, and I would like to ask you once again to respond to Mr Ofner's objections. I, too, feel that it is in some way irresponsible to give security authorities such extensive competences. I would rather see it if it were possible to decide instead of that judge, even at night and at weekends. I know that this is difficult, but the problems are mostly at night and at weekends. There are also journal services at investigative judges! Wouldn't that be possible in the family area? The interventions are massive, and we liberties would prefer it if judicial control were possible – not because we distrust the security officials, but because it is against our liberal rule of law. Seven days of rejection are also too long in my opinion. Because where's the culprit when he ransacked? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's supposed to think about that before!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Then don't let him go!]] Medical controls are also important. However, given the fact that women often get bloody beaten into the hospital, we have to say that they have fallen down the basements, and the doctors simply make this apply, but ask whether this control really works. I believe that better cross-border links should be established, not only with intervention agencies, but also with the family counsellors and family judges. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Summary: I think that the measures envisaged are in principle useful and will therefore agree. However, they also go too far to me on the one hand, and on the other hand they remain on the other hand half of what the Minister of Justice has already said. The measures are only effective as emergency measures. They do not bring any medium-term problem solutions, but they are absolutely necessary. I also repeat: Untrained security officials will be given too much power, which contradicts our freedom-of-law thinking. For me, however, victim protection goes against the rule of law, which is why my consent should be a signal to the really burning need for action. The approach is correct, but the result must not satisfy us. Federal Minister! I have heard that we are thinking about continuing this thought process. I would like to urge you to do so and also to make the necessary corrections to this bill and the necessary enlargements I have made.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11940	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11962	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been talked about how diverse violence is and how it occurs in all levels of society. But to a particular extent, women are affected. I too consider this law to be a very important and big step and I am happy to give it my approval. The right of exit, the prohibition of return and the re-regulation of the interim order are, in fact, the only way to protect victims from violence for at least a certain period of time. Mrs. Minister! They themselves have said that the law is not enough. I share the view of you and Mr Fuhrmann that legal anchoring of intervention agencies and improving access to rights for women are essential. At the same time, it is essential to promote the development of women's advisory services. In rural regions in particular, women are under-supplyed, and the possibility of anonymous advice, an anonymous aid would be of utmost importance because women are socially excluded from the disclosure of violence while at the same time starting a social demise for them. In this context, the expansion of women's homes is also very important. There is only one women's house in Tyrol! The rural areas are completely under-supplyed, but the removal of a women's house from the place of action plays an essential role in the possibility of using it. The drastic undersupply is demonstrated by those figures which say that more than 300 women could not be taken up for oversupply at all. These women's homes are a necessary protection for women and are an important emergency measure. However, more than a third of women admitted to women's homes eventually return to violence, and the perpetrators too can return to the family after a certain period of time. Women with children, even though they would actually trust themselves, often cannot free themselves from this situation of violence, because they cannot afford it financially, are highly dependent or after many years of marriage without any social security. They have bad opportunities in the labour and housing markets. Especially when they have children, their situation on the labour market, as well as studies, becomes even more difficult. I believe that the 'Heim to the Herd' strategy should keep women away from the labour market. As part of today's current hour, this has again been particularly evident in connection with family transfers, family taxation and child care checks. However, women will then be able to get away from situations of violence without their own acquisition and without their own social security, which will make them less easily free under certain circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe it is absolutely necessary, as a accompanying measure, to pursue an offensive labour market policy for women and, of course, to make available to those childcare facilities that women need for so long as the sad social outcome is that care work is almost exclusively women's work. In addition, an educational offensive is urgently needed to expose violence as well as to show risks. The school would have to deal with a large area of activity! However, a very specific education campaign should also be launched for women in general. We still have a high level of discrimination, and every fourth to fifth woman has no degree beyond compulsory school. The statistics produced clearly show that women with lower levels of education are clearly overrepresented in women's homes. This does not mean, of course, that education protects women from violence, but well-trained women have at least better tools to deal with such a situation. Finally, let me point out a group of women for which this situation is particularly difficult: I'm talking about migrants suffering from violence. These are economically and traditionally dependent. There is a threat of losing their right of residence if they submit a divorce, separate from their husbands, go to a women's home, or seek social assistance. In particular for migrants, immediate action must be taken. It is therefore urgently necessary for these women to create their own quota of employment permits and a sufficient, judicially fixed maintenance for the duration of their stay, since these women have no choice but to suffer violence. – This law, however, is not enough to elucidate their situation. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I share your opinion that it needs more than lip confession to violence. Finally, the financial resources needed to enable women and children to take further effective measures against violence and to provide the women concerned with the necessary assistance in the search for housing and in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12034	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. – Deputies! You said you'd come out with 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12055	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to say that the liberals are against any form of violence in the family. We too are for the victim and not for the perpetrator – a clear statement because it is always claimed that we would protect the perpetrator rather than the victim. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Your argument is that!]] Mr Dr. Fuhrmann! She's not like that! I consider this from the point of view that I, as an executive official, must implement the law. But if I look at the law, I must tell you that the law goes too far for me that it is too far-reaching. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] An example of this: For example, if there is an argument on a farm between spouses and as a result of which the husband is referred by the court, he can no longer return to his workplace. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: What do you do when you get where and what happened? Don't the executives have this possibility?]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The opportunity to help yourself has always existed on a private legal basis. Second example: What happens if I live in a house with my companion and have my office in it at the same time, and when my companion shows me and I'm being turned out of my apartment or house? – Then lose the opportunity to continue my activity there, which means that I cannot work! [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: You don't have to go right away! Then maybe you'll think about what you're doing to the women in advance!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Furthermore, the law regulates the right of directions. Women have the opportunity to live in women's homes. I heard a few days ago on the radio that there is only one women's house in Styria, namely in Graz. The possibility of access to such facilities should therefore be extended. But what happens to the men we can't accommodate? – It will probably come so far that these men then have to sleep under the bridge because they can't be accommodated anywhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Then you should sleep under the bridge! Don't let them go before!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Men go to Meldemannstraße!]] Another serious point concerning the executive: The law does not determine any intervention in the fundamental rights of the person concerned, in domestic law or property law. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: And the intervention into the fundamental right of the integrity of the body?- Oh, my God!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The executive is the body that has to intervene on-site in case of danger in default. It must immediately determine what is going on. The executive is required by the legislator to make at this moment a decision that can decide on the fate of the family. In practice, there are also a number of cases in which evidence does not make it possible to return an ad permanently, and where irregularities can arise over and over again. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: I hope you are exempt from duty due to your parliamentary activity!]] I am glad that I am not exempt from service. For in this way I can tell a little more about the practice, Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann, and do not always have to refer to the theory just as you, I think, make laws here!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12197	As the next speaker, Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12218	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Has the Minister come to us? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's here!]] There he is! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. When I listened to my previous speaker, I thought: Of course, there can be concrete situations in which executive officials are overwhelmed. Okay. This is, as it were, a task for the executive. But one cannot go from the personal overload and try to stoop the horse from behind, so to speak, but one must see the problem, which is that women are beaten and unfortunately there is a very large amount of violence in the family. I don't have to do this any more. We know all the mechanisms that come to the fore: Women are persuaded to withdraw charges or complaints, they are well told, even by the respective husband or partner, to try again, and so on. Such life stories could probably fill books. It's playing real dramas. That is why we are very glad that this law exists. For the essential handling has so far failed, namely that in the event of violence in the family, against children or against the wife, at last there are also the possibilities of rejection or the expression of a repatriation ban, and thus coupled with a period of time for the judicial interlocutory order. Now I come to a but: The time limits laid down in the law are too short and past practice. This must be taken into account. – We have had discussions with caretakers and with those women who work in women’s homes and have experience. They say that the persons concerned are not helped with the seven-day ban insofar as courts often do not take the appropriate decision within the seven- and 14-day period. That is to say, there is a great danger that the provoking man or companion will return and put his family or his wife back on terror. A further period that is too short for us is that of three months. Three months of decision-making in the interim order is too short because women are not to be forced into divorce proceedings. Because these are very sensitive decisions for the women concerned, which are also about the further maintenance and the further care of children when children are available. If women are pushed into decisions on the basis of this deadline, this is not to the benefit of women according to the experience of those working in these areas. The intentions of this law are really important, good and right. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that you have not been able by the EIA and the SPÖ to set the deadlines in such a way that the intentions can really be taken into account. We therefore propose an amendment which amends these two areas and provides that, on the one hand, the interim court order should apply for at least 12 months and, on the other hand, that the time limit for the decision concerning the validity of the right of exit should be linked by the security police with the entry into force of the interim order, so that the risk of the suffocating man or partner of life is not given. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mentil.]] I do not understand your emotions at all, Mr Mentil. I have now held back very much because it does not do anything to make this time and on this subject feel emotions. Because it is the fact that the dark figures concerning men who beat women and children and practice violence in the family are very high. That is why I think it is completely wrong when you make such calls. One should rather consider how one can become the master or, in the truest sense of the word, woman. My amendment is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I gave my reasons. If you really take this matter seriously, especially those from the EIA and the SPÖ, you must accept this amendment. Because only by extending the time limits or linking the deadlines is really prevented – which is also your goal – that violent men can no longer return to the homes or that women are not pushed into quick decisions. I therefore call on you to agree to this amendment. Otherwise, the dangers that we actually want to eliminate with this law have been reversed. Above all, the need for quick decisions to agree to divorce as quickly as possible, which brings many disadvantages, is then restored to those concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12305	Mrs Mag. The amendment submitted in accordance with business rules shall be included in the negotiations. Mrs Dr. Mertel has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12329	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take a brief look at the following: The starting point for today's presentation was an initiative by German Chancellor Vranitzky and then Minister of Women Johanna Dohnal. An extensive study on the causes and consequences of the violence was initiated, project managers were university professor Dr. Ringel and Professor Rosenmayer. This study was presented in 1992. Of course, there were numerous other studies on this subject between 1991 and 1992. And these studies were also the basis for a parliamentary survey, which took place on 3 March. It was held on 1 November 1993 at the initiative of the Family Committee, together with the Justice Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't give the Minister of Women any success at all!]] Wait a minute! Maybe you're going to disturb that too! I know your words! Unfortunately, you never hear what you speak, but maybe that's a good thing for you! These studies stress in an international comparison that the most efficient means of combating violence against women and children are the direction, the prohibition of return and the temporary provision. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the above-mentioned scientific studies, we have had to recognize in the survey that violence in the family is a social phenomenon, appears in various forms and covers all social classes and ages. Neither perpetrators nor victims have unique features. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has also called for measures against violence against children in a comprehensive resolution 1994. Mrs. Haller! If you say that the interventions we are taking are hard, I have to reply: The perpetrators' attacks are crimes and are even harder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If Mr Lafer, as an executive official, says what he cannot do, then I must say that the executive officials have always justified the fact that they cannot intervene by the fact that they lack different rights. So you're getting into an argumentation emergency now. But they reveal with their statements that their role is still under arrest in such a way that they accept it as a cavalier offence when women are attacked. Recently at an event here in the house it was said that women are usually beaten because the man feels he has to punish them for disobedience. Finally, the following can be found: The fact that this decision can be taken today is the result of the German Chancellor's campaign, the efforts of the then Minister of Women, the Minister of Women, Konrad, numerous women's initiatives and also the results of the work of the staff in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Family Affairs. I believe that this is an important success today. But essential things still need to follow, namely, what has already been mentioned repeatedly, the currently missing intervention agencies and family advisory bodies, which are not yet included in the law. I am in favour of using existing resources. These would not be enough, however, because the employees must be best trained persons who have many years of experience in working with victims. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] After all, it has been achieved that there are already model projects. However, it is important for the future to be effective against violence by promoting the legal anchoring of intervention agencies. In this context, I think it is important to point out that serious crimes such as rape and dangerous threats are still not standardized as official offences, just because they happen in the family circle. We know that because of the current legal situation, it is also possible for the perpetrators to put victims under massive pressure, so that, despite serious crimes, there is no prosecution at all. In this area, legislative changes must be made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I am also in favour of the setting up of own Special Divisions for Violents in the Family Sector in courts and prosecutors. Concentrated know-how would be important. It has already proved that this form of specialization is correct and important in the fight against economic crime. Minister! It would also be important for the victim to understand that it is agreed by the upcoming release of the offender from the criminal detention or from the arrest. I have just mentioned the most important further measures that we must implement as early as tomorrow. The arguments put forward so far by Mr Lafer... [[Call the Freeman: Zeitgeist!]] It's not a zeitgeist, it's a "stroogeist"! The arguments why you do not agree with today's regulation are not transparent and drawn to the hair. Whoever does not agree with this is rightly subject to suspicion and accusation that for him violence against women and children in the family sector is the highest cavalier offence and that he wants to protect the perpetrators and not the victims. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] In addition, a few numbers: In the Frauenhaus, 942 women have so far sought protection, 304 have been rejected for lack of space. Every fifth woman is a victim of violence. There were also 1 060 children looking for protection in women's houses. Mr Ofner, you should really be impressed with these figures alone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I've been a lawyer for 40 years, I know what I'm talking about!]] You have probably always defended the perpetrators, it is possible that your special area is the defense of such perpetrators! In any case, it is gratifying that a clear majority in this House of violence against the weak in our society would like to put a bar on and agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12425	The next speaker is Mr Schuster. Please, honourable Member. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12446	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In Art. 1 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights is as follows: "All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights." But although this is written there, everyday life is quite different. A lot of injustice is done, and a lot of violence is being done. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the federal law to be decided today gives us the opportunity to express ourselves on this issue and to take a step towards protecting the poorest, namely those who have to endure violence. After § 382a new § 382b (1) is inserted. This is – as some previous speakers have already stressed – about the so-called right of way. Ladies and gentlemen! Who can or may be an applicant at the Court of First Instance? – It is in the template: a close relative, whether spouses, partners, siblings, electors or nursing children; they are all allowed to be applicants. The aim of this provision is that a person who is exposed to physical attacks or in whom a behaviour which is significantly detrimental to mental health makes further co-existence unreasonable, may make an application to leave the home or to ban a return to the same. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the problems that lead to violence in the family at all? – First of all, the internal family conflict is undisputed. High house! Until 1975 – that was the year of the adoption of the Family Law Reform – marriage was considered as the most permanent provision institution for children and women. This family law reform replaced the primacy of the male head of the family with the partnership of the spouses. Now, of course, another question is: How does it hold our society with violence and power? To whom does this power serve at all? – One thing is clear: Adults cannot be released from responsibility for their own actions. There is no such law, and there will never be such a one. However, it is even more difficult to record the use of psychological violence than physical abuses. It's sad reality: Although most women and children outside their home feel more insecure than in their homes, there is often violence in the apartment, the seat of families. While the right of directions is a major improvement in the protection of victims, prevention must be equally important. Why does violence arise? Violence has many causes: One exercises violence because of an emergency situation, the other because of fear, the third because of unemployment, or because of problems with alcohol or drugs. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to deal effectively with violence in family and partnership, there is a need for a social awareness-building process involving, in particular, those professional groups and areas of society which are often faced with violence and its impact. The medical system and doctors have a crucial role to play in this. In Austria, no wide-ranging attempt has been made so far by the official body. Only Federal Minister Bartenstein has set up an activity in this regard. He has launched a model project to network the health stories of children treated in accident departments to detect physical or sexual abuse. This project is running well, and much will be reported about it in the next few months. For this activity, I would like to say a sincere thank you to our Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I am now tabling an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask the President to take this amendment into account when voting. Ladies and gentlemen! A society should not be measured by how it holds it with the strong and the mighty, but by how it keeps it with the weak, with those who have to suffer violence. The latter are children and women in many cases. If, therefore, a law is in place today, which can at least remedy this in some areas, I believe that we can give this law a peaceful consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12537	The amendment, which Mr Schuster has just read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. Mrs Bures has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12561	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! We know that violence is widespread in the family, even more so than some often want to do. We also know that the dark figure in this respect is very high. But we also know, especially since the awareness and public debate on this issue, that every fifth woman living in a relationship is affected by violence in the family and that two thirds of all children living in Austria are affected by violence in the family. 54 percent of all murders are committed in the family! In 90 percent the victims are women and children. It is estimated by the women’s authorities that there are, in fact, about 150,000 to 300,000 victims of violence – women and children. These figures include injured people, for whom we need to take appropriate action today in order to be the master of this problem. It is not a question of preventing a farmer from reaching his or her place of work or office in his or her home, but rather of preventing men from rape, beating, mistreatment and humiliating women and children. This is what we are talking about today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I share the view that today's legislation is a first step in documenting that we are really serious about these issues and about these problems. It was the women's movement and it was committed women's politicians who have detabulated and analyzed this topic over the last 20 years. The analysis of how this form of violence arises at all showed that it is the question of the distribution of power. The only chance to deal with this problem and, in addition to concrete measures, if there are already victims, to take preventive measures is to analyse the distribution of power, to change the role of women and men, and to ensure that there is an even distribution of power. This problem is not about physical strength or strength that can be shown, but only about the role of the family and the women in this society. Today, all responsible politicians on this issue have been successful and violence towards women and children has been sensitized. I welcome the measures we are taking today. In order to significantly improve the instrument of the interlocutory decision, and in order to ensure that security authorities receive additional powers in the area of violence against women and children, we are increasing the protection of victims. This will be significantly improved. We are also based on the principle that in the event of violence, the victims – usually the women and children – must always leave the home and the home. With this first step, we have also documented our consistent attitude towards private violence. We must stand up for unconditional condemnation and apprehension of violence in our society, especially within our own four walls!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12610	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12632	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The laws that we are discussing now have a signal effect and are to be regarded as a fight against violence in the family. This catalogue of measures aims to achieve a peaceful co-existence in the family free of fear. In addition, however, the attitude of the population must also change. Because often after the motto, it is still traded: What happens in my neighbor's apartment doesn't matter to me! – Family is still considered a place of privacy. However, the border must be drawn where violence begins. So when it is powerful in the neighbor, looking away and listening to it must no longer be the ultimate principle. The safety of many wretched men that they get away without punishment must no longer be tolerated. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is violence in all social classes. There, however, where additional stress factors such as small homes, lack of childcare facilities, unwanted pregnancies, as well as chronic diseases of family members are added, violence will be increased, as well as well-known scientists recently presented at an event in Parliament on this subject. Other key reasons are as follows: Fear of loss, jealousy and – you hear and marvel!Use custom fonts; Member Mertel has already mentioned it – supposed disobedience. The martyrdom of many women is more than ten years before they finally get out of a violent relationship. In view of this, it is necessary to create State protection measures that offer social support to victims of family violence is so attractive that the victim can believe in a fundamental change in his living conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The first steps in this direction are taken with the present draft law. I do not want to address the more detailed legislation, but the previous speakers have already done so. However, I would like to stress a particularly important point, and this is the establishment of intervention agencies which are an important prerequisite for the implementation of this law. These intervention agencies are intended to advise women in the event of violence. In order for this law to be able to obtain the appropriate impact, the installation of these intervention agencies is important. Three are already planned: one in Graz, one in Vienna and one in Innsbruck, as I hope. To conclude: A drops of advertising – I feel it this way – is that criminal law is not treated at all in this context, which I believe should not point to the lower meaning of domestic violence, but to particular difficulties that arise in this field. That is why I see it as one of the next major challenges for legislation to overcome these difficulties so that no one in this Republic can come to the disparaging idea that domestic violations, protected by communities of life, would be less illegal than outside.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12689	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no final word from the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 407 of the supplements. Mr Vanner and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. Mr Fekter, Mr Fuhrmann and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the parts concerned by the amendments, namely the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Ofner and Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article II(382b) (1) and (2) and (3). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule II Z 5, paragraph 382b, paragraphs 1 to 3, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article II Z 5 § 382b para. 4 refers. I call on those Members of the House who wish to give their consent to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now proceed to the vote on Article II Z 5 § 382b para. 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Mr Fekter, Mr Fuhrmann and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article II Z7. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Ofner and comrades have tabled an amendment to Article III Z 1 § 38a para. 6,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I am now immediately leaving Article III Z 1 § 38a para. 6 as amended by the Committee's report. In the case of your consent, I would ask for a sign to this effect. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr. Ofner and Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article III Z 1 § 38a para. 7,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment to Article III Z 1 § 38a para. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I therefore leave Article III Z 1 § 38a para. 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask you, in the event of consent, to give you an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask for an appropriate sign in case of your consent. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 321/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund comrades concerning a federal law on the introduction of the Austrian postal savings bank into a stock company, the amendment of the Postsparkassengesetz 1969, the Banking Act and the establishment of the Public Debt Committee (474 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (369 of the Supplements): Federal Act on the Supervision of Securities Services (WAG) and on the amendment of the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Introduction Act on the Administrative Procedures Law 1991, the bankruptcy order, the compensation system, the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Investment Fund Act (473 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12842	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are reports from the Financial Committee on Amendment 321/A by Dr Ewald Novotny, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund comrades concerning a federal law on the introduction of the Austrian postal savings bank into a stock company, the amendment of the Postsparkassengesetz 1969, the Banking Act and the establishment of the Public Debt Committee (474 of the Supplements) and the Government template (369 of the Supplements): Securities Supervisory Act and other laws (473 of the Supplements). There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12876	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the Securities Supervisory Act; Mr Rosenstingl will still comment on the subject of postal savings bank. Federal Minister! As much as I wished for the introduction of a functioning securities supervision, with all that belongs to it, I am disappointed with what you have produced with your government template. She wears your handwriting – the ÖVP seems to have watched relatively doubly – and it includes a lot of serious shortcomings – defects you know, Mr. Federal Minister, and where you have acted against better knowledge. We liberals have therefore formulated an extensive amendment. I asked President Neisser to have them distributed in the hall because he is so extensive. – This has not yet been done. If this is no longer possible, I would ask you to have this amendment read in the follow-up. The central criticisms are clearly expressed. There have also been a number of criticisms in the public debate in terms of securities supervision. All of this has failed to respond to the Minister of Finance. I therefore agree to take out some of these criticisms and to address them here in spite of the late hour. A very essential point, ladies and gentlemen, where a cry should actually go through Austria, is the curly removal of the banking secret you are carrying out, namely, in Section 2 para. 1 Z4, which lays down the right of federal securities supervision to carry out every quantity of surveys in case of loosely formulated suspicions in relation to insider trading. I think this is another attack on the Austrian banking secret. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I would have expected the government to put in place measures to improve banking secrecy and not systematic disassemble. I have to say that. – The opposite has happened. Second point: They have excluded a whole group of persons in working life. In the future, 5,000 asset advisors will have to submit to a high level of capital, in order to demand a minimum capital allocation of 630 000 S for only advisory services and 1.7 million schilling for managing investment service providers. You admitted to the Committee itself, Minister of State, that this would not have been necessary because the EU does not require us to include the asset advisors in this law. That's not what anyone prescribes. And the Germans, Mr Bundesminister – you will now say that is not true, but I guarantee you that – will go a different way. They will by no means include advisory and management asset consultants in the relevant national implementation. Federal Minister! They practice hard work. You want to stand there as a pattern student, and I'll tell you why. They promised the Austrians that the anonymous savings book would be preserved. This has always been said by you and the entire government, including the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in times of election and in other parliamentary debates. Now you see, it's getting close with the anonymous savings book. The EU is resisting and you have to expect a case from the European Court of Justice. So you go here and make a particularly restrictive securities supervision law, you want to stand up as EU pattern students in the hope that then the European authorities will say: Well, Mr. Klima, in Austria, has put through a model law in Parliament, so let's look at the anonymous savings book. Federal Minister! I guarantee you today from this point of view: This bill will not go on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your loss of credibility is preprogrammed and not stopped. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Another criticism, ladies and gentlemen: This directive, which is to be implemented here, is also not in line with the basic principle of EU-wide harmonisation. Why? – What is to be adopted here is a Lex Bank Austria. Federal Minister! They do not want the Austrian economy to have access to the capital market. They want to continue as they have been, that the large banks – the Bank Austria and many others – continue to work preferably with funded, undoubtedly cheap loans. But you do not want the Austrian economy finally to have a reasonable capital financing, because the Austrian economy could then be freed from the banishment of the banks. And that's a thorn in the eye. That is why I can also imagine that the banks, as a powerful section in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, have boldly entered the door and made the corresponding whirlwind. There's a lot. Cost keys – we need to discuss them seriously. Unfortunately, I don't have the time to do this now. A social partnership advisory board shall be set up. – I already get a Lachanfall when I consider the text of the law: social partnership occupied with the Chamber of Commerce, the National Bank, the Chamber of Workers and two officials from the Ministry of Finance who must be competent. Minister! Does that mean that the others do not have to be knowledgeable? I really wonder what kind of nonsense is being done. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to the conclusion that the speaking time is unfortunately out. There would be a lot more to say. In addition to excluding a professional group that will have enormous negative consequences, the most important criticism for me is the removal of banking secrecy. Mr Federal Minister, be assured that you will hear from us many times. And you will see, just as in the work contracts, it will eventually come to a repair law in not so long time, you will have to admit your mistakes. It will be a continuation of these Pushgesetze à la Werkcontractsverordnung. In conclusion, I have the summary assessment ready: This is and remains a push to the square. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12975	Mr Magn. Firlinger's application, which was essentially referred to, was submitted in writing, sufficiently supported, duplicated and distributed according to business rules. In addition, it is printed in the Stenographic Protocol. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] The Federal Minister has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13129	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You will understand that I do not go into the perspective or the horoscopes of Mr Firlinger, nor do I refer to the self-created bills that will not go out. I would just like to address the two points of criticism – everything else was actually not commentable – first of all the cave of banking secrecy. Mr Firlinger! Do you think that it is urgently necessary in analogy with banking supervision to construct an securities supervisory system? [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Of course! I said that too!]] - Good. Do you think that securities supervision must have the same rights and obligations as banking supervision? - Good too. Then I tell you very clearly that the supervision of securities has no more rights than the supervision of banks, Mr Firlinger. And that's where you can say what you want. Of course, all the securities supervision in the direction of banking secrecy may also include banking supervision as an authority, in its role as State supervision, in order to protect against insider transactions that break the Austrian capital market, and to protect consumers. [[Abg. Rossmann: Where was the bank supervision at BHI?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've led yourself ad absurdly. Banking supervision, which has existed for decades, may be the same as investment supervision. And, suddenly, is this law intended to destroy banking secrecy? So I don't understand your analogy. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Friend.]] I want to argue objectively; perhaps consider You still agree and agree. Mr Firlinger! Secondly, on the question of asset advisors and intermediaries. We know that there have been problems in this area – unfortunately to the detriment of the trust of Austrian investors – over the last few years. That is why, Mr Firlinger, it is important to me that the asset advisors be covered by the provisions of the securities supervision. For you, too? - Good. And if that is the case, then – and you know it very well – there is no other way, as a result of the directive of the European Union, than to cover capital... [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You can remove them!]] Don't swindle! I said yes, we can either leave them out completely out of the securities supervision, which we would not recommend... Listen to me! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Why don't you do it like in Germany?]] Let us try together to develop a logical process. I have believed that we would have agreed that it is important that they should also be subject to supervision and can therefore be included in the securities supervision. Agreed? - Good. And if we confess to this, then we have to apply the statutory rules precisely – everything else is a deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13226	Mrs Huber is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13248	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In my speech, too, I will only be limited to the Securities Supervisory Act for time-consuming reasons. My colleague Parnigoni will deal with the postal law. Unlike Mr Firlinger, I believe that we today are grateful to God for making very, very important improvements to the protection of investors. These will bring about a single market in investment services and thus also fair conditions of competition for all providers. If you, Mr Firlinger, have referred to the Minister of Finance as a model student of the EU, I must say: [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's the difference?]] I want to thank him for that. He's a model student who's getting the protection of consumers, and that's very high on him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only very difficult to understand why the asset advisors' interest groups are so keenly opposed to the investor protection rules. At this point, and the Minister has already mentioned it, I would like to refer briefly to Beldomo AG, who has been working equally for months on consumer protection, courts and media. These are our wealth consultants who have linked 2,000 investors throughout Austria. After all, the damage amounted to 200 million schillings. This draft law is intended to help prevent injury to this extent in the future. I think that this should be in the interests of professional representation. Under this law, asset advisors and managers are subject to the supervision of securities, and this enables effective control in the industry in the future. I do not at all understand that only in the field of asset advisors and managers should the securities supervision be subject to any restrictions. The mandatory obligation to set up a capital company, which you have criticised so, Mr Firlinger, is for me a very essential prerequisite for the financial basis, the own resources of the asset advisors and asset managers, and that is also a security factor for investors. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You have never been concerned about the self-employed!]] We will, I hope, take different positions. However, the creation of the right of withdrawal is of central importance. Even if the consumer has started business, there will be the opportunity to get out of the contract for a week in the future. In the future – and I think this is very important and essential – the entrepreneur is also liable for compliance with all the investor information provisions. The blue from the sky can now no longer be promised without further notice. As a member of a money institution, I simply can't get used to one thing, despite this, as I hope, very good law to consumers: Do not be blinded by fairy-tale gains and success prospects, but consider once more, twice, three times and again where you are investing your money and whom you trust your money. [[Abg. Meisinger: Then you have to leave the Social Democratic Party!]] I very much hope that this Securities Supervision Act will prevent those black sheep who have caused financial disaster in the coat of the seemingly serious investment advisor and partly led to the financial ruin of investors. My group will therefore very much like to give its approval to this Securities Supervision Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13318	Mr Van der Bellen has now been notified to the House. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13339	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, securities supervision. For a long time, the Vienna Stock Exchange has not been known for its exuberant dynamics. This also hinders the provision of capital, we all know. One of the causes of this problem is that supervision in securities trading has not yet been sufficient for international standards. That is why the Federal Securities Supervisory Board is to be set up – a project that I absolutely support, provided that this institution actually fulfils its task of preventing insider information from being exploited. This is something that has so far hindered the development of the Vienna Stock Exchange to a very special extent. In order to meet this objective, of course, the BWA – this supervisory authority – must obtain significant information and information rights. And I must say that I do not share the concerns, Mr Firlinger, which you mentioned. Without such comprehensive information rights, we do not need to establish any securities supervision at all. It bothers me, however, as Mr Firlinger has also mentioned, that it will not be an independent authority in the Anglo-Saxon sense, but an office in the Austrian sense, somehow in addition to and under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Mr Klima has said in the Committee that this authority should be independent of the banks, but not independent of the Ministry. This is Austrian tradition, but that is not what one would understand, for example, in the American, Anglo-Saxon region under a regulatory authority. I know there are constitutional problems here in Austria, but I am also disturbed by the specific design of the advisory board. I do not see in the long term why the social partners have a monopoly for sending them to such advisory councils – they are again the Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Chamber of Labour and two other institutions. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger]] Without the confidence of the social partners, it seems that nothing remains in Austria. I am known as a friend of the social partners where they are in place. But they don't have to dominate everything everywhere. [[Abg. May. Peter: It's nice!]] And that's what I mean, that's a point. That is why we are in favour of this project. With regard to postal savings banks, I am currently simply too many things open – I do not repeat in detail what is going on here. Among other things, the Federation operates the same policy as it has pursued France, although in a much larger way, which is to be transferred an amount from the PSK for pension provisions. For this the federal government takes over the pensions. This is what France is doing with great success – with us it is 3.5 billion, in France it is 75 billion schilling – and in this way it reduces the Maastricht deficit. Unfortunately, it has been accepted by the European Statistical Office. But the Financial Times has reported on this story under headings such as: "Lies, damned Lies", "Statistical Lies", "Creative Accounting" and similar flattering expressions. The partial privatisation of the PSK, so it is in the law, is expected in foreseeable time. Dr. Ditz of the Post has already announced to the press that he wants 25 percent. There is, in principle, no objection whatsoever. Just, what's being privatized here? What about the PSK business segments? – If I have not read the law incorrectly, then at first nothing will be changed in § 5 of the Postsparks Act. But this is the central question of the entire treatment of the PSK. I understand, of course, that the Raiffeisen sector is opposed to the expansion of rural competition, and I also understand that trade and commerce, which tend to have an advantage from the tightening of competition among the banks in the rural area, are not exactly the core clients of SPÖ. But does that mean that the PSC remains as it is, and is privatized as it is, or do we open a new bank? I'd be interested in that. It is also in the interests of agriculture, trade and commerce, especially in rural areas, to learn how it will continue in the long term. But what really bothers me with this law is the so-called government debt committee, which is in fact nothing but the continuation of the old board of directors of the post-sparkas without any competence. He may analyze and report but has no own, so to speak, forming power. Nor is it established as a monitoring instrument for the Federal Finance Agency, which at least attracts annual loans in the order of 300 billion schilling. He will be a toothless body like the previous one. Who's sending this body? – Of course, the social partners: With the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture has five members, the Federal Chamber of Labour has five more and the Federal Government has three words. – What is the state debt design to do with the social partners with the analysis of public debt? Dr. Stumbling! This is simply a continuation of the past bad tradition. The appointment of the members of the Govern ment Committee shall not even be subject to hearing before Parliament or before the committee responsible. All of this is so to speak in the private context between state and chamber organizations. We will not give our consent to such regulations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13383	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13404	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At an advanced hour, I make only a few comments on securities supervision and PSK. I would like to make it quite clear to the Securities Supervisory Act that we are very glad that, in this today's decision, we are now receiving such supervision of securities under international model. I am convinced that this law also makes a contribution to making the Vienna Stock Exchange, as has already been said, attractive. It is therefore urgently necessary that we adopt this law on securities supervision today, as there will also be competition from the point on which we belong to the European Monetary Union. I am not of the opinion of Mr Firlinger that, so far, a dramatic intervention into banking secrets has taken place. I would rather join the words of the Minister. It is basically the same skills as we have in banking supervision today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] I understand, of course, the criticism of the opposition to the social partners represented in the Advisory Council. I know this temporal current, no question at all. But believe me – this is also reflected in opinion polls –: The social partners still have the greatest confidence in the population! Mr Van der Bellen! The social partners make very important contributions to stability policy with their income policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There may well be a connection with the national debt committee, for example, because the social partners have a high degree of stability policy in their policies. Mr Van der Bellen! In the case of all the scientific aspects of your statements, I believe it should be recognised that there is a link in this regard and it is therefore right that the social partners will be represented in the Committee on Public Debts, for example, in the future. I would just like to say to the Postsparkasse, ladies and gentlemen: In the last days and weeks, the expression "Turbo" has suddenly appeared in politics. Although this may not apply to all parts of politics, I would like to admit that. But if we look at what is happening within a few days in the area of exclusion and privatisation strategies, we can say: In this area the turbo is fully enabled! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, the Trabi Turbo!]] Today we have carried out the distribution of the postal savings bank, today we have the distribution of the entire data processing area of the Federal Rechenamt to the Bundesrechenzentrum Ges.m.b.H. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to take action in this area. We have heard with joy, Mr Minister, that yesterday the Council of Ministers decided on the extension of state printing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] It's going to be a blow now. Call me an area where reform projects are being carried out so quickly. I must express my appreciation to you, Minister of Finance, that reform projects are really being carried out with high pressure. And so many calls for opposition can't change the accuracy of this path! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I just want to remind you of the Federal Chamber of Commerce! They're gonna run into the door for us!]] This is in itself a strategic right measure. I'm sure I'm for that too. Although I am a great supporter of privatisation, Mr Stadler, I am in favour of the fact that this institution, which processes data subject to tax secrecy, remains in the Federal State only 100 percent. I believe that we must be honest enough to recognise that, in the context of data material, which partly concerns the intimacy of citizens, the laws of the market should not apply. In this case, I recognize that this distributed ges.m.b.H. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think it is so important that we adopt these laws today, because it is first of all the right regulatory policy to remove the non-hospital area from the federal administration as far as possible. We have set this strategic course in the Intergovernmental Agreement. It is also correct in budgetary terms. Because we have the problem of the superfluous state apparatus, which by size represents almost 60 percent of net income from the staff. Thirdly, it is the right way in terms of the flexibility of corporate governance, because the relatively rigid corset of the need to move within the framework of federal budgetary law is thus taken. Fourthly, I believe that it is good for the dedicated and skilled employees of the Postsparkaskasse if they can free themselves from this corset and ultimately allow more flexibility. That is why we are saying a fundamental yes to these strategies of exclusion. I am very glad to have been one who has been in favour of it for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13485	Mr Rosenstingl has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary limitation: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13506	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. If you are so enthusiastic about the "Turbo" policy, I can't entirely join it. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I expected the opposition to say something like that!]] For I believe that it is not a good means of policy to say: I'm starting, but I don't know where to go! [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: That's what the Qualtinger has done better than you!]] However, according to this principle, you are making your government policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Post-disbursement is a good example of this. Important questions have not been clarified as always in the case of this government coalition. These are criteria which will have a significant impact on the competitive situation in the banking sector, especially in the case of the PSC. Federal Minister! I am not satisfied if you explain to the committee: We will see what the concession for private lending will be. We'll see if this post-sparkasse makes a request. - That's too little! I believe that this is too little for their responsibility. You know very well that the postal savings bank has a competitive advantage. Each post office is, as it were, a bank branch. This means that, as far as I am aware, the postal savings bank has the largest branch network in the banking sector. There will hardly be a bank that can or already has so many branches. Federal Minister! Therefore, this distortion of competition could result in a massive reduction of personnel among all the other banks, but not because there is a better service or because the postal savings bank's business policy as an AG will be much better than with the other banks, but only because you create a state competitive advantage! I think that should be clarified in advance. We should also know the basis of decision. The law mentions the cooperation agreement between the postal savings bank and Deutsche Telekom. This cooperation agreement could also bring about a competitive advantage or make the competitive advantage a little bit more competitive. But this cooperation agreement is not available to us as a basis for decision, and you have indicated in the Committee that you are not at all prepared to send it to the honourable Member. There is also a distortion of competition because the postal savings bank manages the accounts of the financial authority. The financial authority is a big customer. Many banks would be happy if they had such a large bank account customer. To date, we have not received an answer as to how this will develop, whether this will be deprived of the post-sparkasse and if other banks get something. There is no solution for this either to this day. The future payment of staff is also unclear. There is a call for declarations of intent and it is announced that there will be a statement of intent until the Committee's date, as the staff should continue. But this statement of intent is not yet available. I am of the opinion that a breakdown of the PSC can be useful and, of course, I believe that the conditions for private participation must be created, Minister of State. However, the government parties would have had the obligation to create the framework conditions for a clear future of the PSC. However, these conditions do not exist. We have no clear basis for the decision in this House. Federal Minister! You have not fulfilled your duty from our point of view. We liberals, therefore, cannot agree to the introduction of the post-sparkas to an AG under these chaotic conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13563	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13585	Mr President. Minister! High house! I refer to the Securities Supervisory Act again. The PSK questions will be dealt with for our group, Mr Parnigoni. The Securities Supervisory Act clearly states that it is his intention to upgrade Vienna's financial centre, to improve investor protection, in particular to prevent insider transactions. Instruments for this purpose are the supervision of securities. Mr Firlinger! I cannot see how such securities supervision could work without providing the appropriate information, especially since these information possibilities, as the Minister has said, are already available in banking supervision. Second point: Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen Firlinger was not here now, the argument that, if one strengthens access to equity at the same time, it would prevent the formation of equity. And around the whole one then spins the harsh idea that, in truth, only banks that give loans are to be protected. I think there is a fundamental error. Thirdly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has already stated very precisely that the involvement of the social partners in the Advisory Committee is absolutely meaningful. They legitimately represent interests, in this case those of economic operators and investors, in other words in this sense of consumers. And the problem of lack of expertise in this area has never occurred at all because this knowledge of experts is very, very high among the Austrian social partners. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Securities Supervisory Act, which we are adopting today, is also a major step forward for consumers, as is even the day for consumers today. As early as the afternoon, with the criminal law amendment law, we have established the ban on pyramid and chain games. Paragraph 11 of this Securities Supervision Act states that there is a right of withdrawal for consumers in the event of the conclusion of investment transactions even if the consumer himself has caused the start-up. This means further safeguarding consumers in Austria, because many processes have so far failed. This possibility of withdrawal will, in particular, help to further reduce structural distributions. Unfortunately, in Austria, as in other countries, very, very many structural distributions have established themselves, which work with really aggressive distribution methods and which have caused billions of damage in the area of capital investment in Austria. We only have at least 3,000 complaints within the framework of the Lower Austrian Chamber of Workers – which is already a somewhat older number –: Individual customers who were looking for an apprehension felt behind the light through such structural distributions. I would like to give a few examples. The cases are all known. For example, the IMMAG – which is a somewhat older case – was sold without any indication of the associated risk of real estate share certificates. Residence shares were also sold by structural distributions some time ago. It was a dubious business combination. It was promised that the residence shares financed by loans would be purchased and that the price change would be so high that on the one hand, one could cancel the loan, pay interest, and in addition serve a life insurance. - The whole thing has collapsed. We were able to achieve a great deal for consumers in the way of the culture. But at the end of the day one must try to fight this problem at its root. I also mention the case of Hercules: This was a kind of pension scheme, in which life insurance was once again combined with real estate funds. In Lower Austria alone, there were 3,000 people who paid 130,000 s each. Now there is the case "Beldomo AG": Beldomo shares are sold by 20 structural distribution companies, and one works with arguments such as: This is like a construction savings contract, only at higher interest rates. 10 to 12 percent interest is guaranteed. The Court of Auditors shall examine the company et cetera. – 550 investors have already complained to us. We are concerned that the individual customer should have time to consider whether and what he actually wants to complete. He's got a week now. It can use consumer advice, for example, from the Federal Chamber of Labour. We will also be prepared to be able to provide such information through insight into the brochures et cetera. Especially important are the rules of conduct for so-called securities service providers in this Securities Supervision Act. They must now also be organized into capital companies, and a minimum deposit – as mentioned and criticized – of 650 000 S for consultants and 1,750 000 S for those managing portfolios is foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, it is not about being EU pattern students, but about the fact that this type of access restriction is a concern for us. We want this for the Austrian market, completely independent of what the EU rules are, because it is really necessary to introduce a restriction of access in a market where there is a great deal of dispassion. We can therefore also be very satisfied with this Securities Supervision Act's waiting for consumer protection. As always, not all desires are fulfilled. The new claim will in particular concern the extension of the prospectus liability. It must be suppressed that someone writes something in a prospectus, which is then not fulfilled and turns out to be false. There must not only be a liability if grossly negligent action or intent exists, but it should also be sufficient for it to be slight negligence. Because the customer relies on the prospectus. In addition, for many investment transactions, in particular in combinations, there should be so-called "ratings" as is the case in the Anglo-Saxon area. I believe that in a functioning capital market, we also need to give confidence to small investors – and in principle the forms of investment – not only shares, but always combinations – at the end of the day. This law is taking a big step in this direction. A few small steps, Minister, are still missing. But these, as I hope, will follow. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13663	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13684	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few brief comments on the two proposals. To Postsparkasen AG: Federal Minister! I think we agree that in this context we are talking about a breakdown, not a privatisation. You yourself have stated in a committee statement that you do not think of reducing the federal share to 150 per cent, and I understand your motivation as well. But I expect you to understand us that we cannot agree to this law alone because of your statement. Because if we choose a private legal form, then, of course, the form of privatisation. Federal Minister! On the other hand, your procedure should not find the agreement of this House alone, because you release part of the administration into a private law organization, without knowing how it will be designed in its Statute. If it is to be the future task of GesmbH's post and Telekom's participation to determine this design, and if Parliament is not able to say so in this design – it is planned – then I believe that this procedure is not responsible, then at least it is pointless. For to release or decompose a farm into independence – not to say privatize, because it is beyond dispute that it should not be – and not to know what the result of this decommissioning should be, seems to me to be extremely worrying. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore ask you, Minister of State, to understand that we cannot agree to this exclusion. Another comment: They themselves have announced that there will still be a major policy on this issue, namely the match Raiffeisen against PSK. I must say, Minister of State: If Parliament is not to be involved in this decision or is not to be involved in it, if there is not to be a will-making process here, because by means of a statute which is proposed, I do not understand that, both with regard to the value of distributed undertakings and their prospects for the future in a competitive market. I regret this as a parliamentarian, but in the meantime, after two years of experience in this House, I am not surprised at it. That will probably be the Austrian reality! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Should we decide the statutes of an AG here?]] Federal Minister! I wouldn't take this for granted. Federal Minister! They should be allowed to decide on the exclusion in the form of a statute. I am aware that you could then change the statutes of your postal and telegraph participation agency. But it would be a different hygiene to release a company and say: Become independent! Become a stock company! However, I do not even know what the statute looks like. Maybe then sometime in the statute: The board consists of two persons, one is to be nominated by the ÖVP and one by the SPÖ. That could also be in the statute. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's what we're expecting!]] I'm handing over this now, Minister of State! I am convinced that you will find more subtle ways to achieve exactly the same. Unfortunately, it will not be in the statute. Nevertheless, allow me to point out the impunity of such an exclusion. Mr President. I ask you to give me three minutes and then turn on the red light! Second – Securities Supervision Act: I think we would have had a great opportunity and also the need if we wanted to revive the Austrian Stock Exchangeplace – and I think we should also talk about a resurgence in this context – not to invent a truly modern law or, after Austrian manner, to influence the social partners, as Mr Kaufmann proudly proclaimed, to knit it, but simply and gripping it. There are international exchanges that work very well. We should have just written it down there and perhaps had to add one or the other. Mr. Kaufmann! They say that it is good for the social partners to be involved. – It is a highly complicated matter. However, the same social partners are not even able to regulate closing times! What do you say? The social partners should focus on the small tasks and only then take on something as complex and complicated as the Austrian stock market! Because that's important, Mr. Kaufmann, I'm conceding to you. There are some criticisms, such as the cost of staffing. You know that, Minister: In my view, 90 percent of the influence on the others is unreasonable, but to keep 90 percent of the influence. In my view, the fact that you have not provided for an instance is also worrying. The Minister's right of guidance is more than worrying, especially with regard to the abolition of banking secrecy – we still have a first reading today – if I would also like to thank you for agreeing to document these instructions at least in writing, so that abuse or misunderstanding – I am of course not committing abuse – is eliminated. I thank you for this welcome. At least that's a small part. Once again to the asset consultants: My previous speakers from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are absolutely right in this regard: They make market restrictions, but they do not serve to protect the consumer. This would have been possible exclusively with a liability solution. Mr. Kaufmann! You need to know that 650 000 S or 1.7 million are simply a crack for this business. That's ridiculous! If you say 17 million and say: Dollar, I'd say, Yes, that would be an appropriate cover. The problem of consumer protection or market participant protection can only be addressed if you solve it via liability insurance. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would therefore ask, Minister, to note that we will reject both proposals in recognition of some good will. I'm asking you to see this in your sporting ambition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13749	I call Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13771	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen has here more or less agreed to the Committee on Civil Liberties. However, I think, Mr Van der Bellen, that in all these years this body has proved to be a totally unimportant consultation for the Minister of Finance. I therefore believe that, in particular, the social partners in this area – Mr President, this has made it very clear, and I support it – have an opportunity to participate. In particular, the social partners should be able to talk about debt issues. I believe that this is in all cases a failure and more transparent for the population than if this – apologise if I express it so – is doing about a few individuals like tax advisors or scientists. The latter may well have their merits, but I do think that the social partners are representative in this case. I would also like to make a few comments on the 1969 PSK Act, which will be amended: I regard the transfer of PSK to a stock company as an important step. It is important for the thousands of employees in this institution that they are no longer subject to budgetary sovereignty and that as a stock company they have the opportunity to make their future flexible and respond to market developments. I also believe that the transfer of shares to post-holding is important. This ensures cooperation between the PSK and the Post-AG. With the appropriate design of the postal law, for example, universal services will be ensured in the letter sector and thus also financial services in the regions such as savings or Giro transport, and this seems important to me. Therefore, two more comments on the statutes – they have already been addressed – which must be adopted and which are also very important for the functioning of this exclusion, after the division of Mr Hazelsteiner. I naturally advocate that the PSC be given the opportunity to grant private loans. This will be a very central question in order to make the cooperation between Post and PSK that I have already mentioned effective in a new cooperation. New tasks could be created for post offices in the country. Regional structures could be secured. I mean, especially the Austrian People's Party, which repeatedly speaks of federalism, country competence and the strengthening of the communities, must have a high interest in supporting us in this. I also believe that it is necessary to state openly that it is also necessary in these statutes to ensure that the supremacy of a certain banking cooperative is restricted or at least limited for reasons of competition. There must be real competition for this currently overpowered banking community also in rural areas. I would also like to mention that in fulfilling the EU directives and regulations, I am also concerned that the PSC can also lend loans to EU territorial authorities, i.e. in municipalities, countries or other areas of EU Member States. Just for ownership. It has already been made clear by the Minister that 51 percent should remain in public hands. I mean, that's a right decision. For the other 49 percent, I agree that, for example, the PSK employees, who now have to profile themselves in a new competitive environment and take their chances, may have the opportunity to acquire favoured shares. I also advocate a wide distribution of these shares in order to ensure, on the one hand, the independence of the institution and, on the other hand, the necessary flexibility for the future development of this important money institution. I believe that the right steps have been taken. We Socialists will therefore give our approval to this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13819	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote. First, let me vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 474 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give this draft an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask once again those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 473 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Firlinger and comrades submitted an amendment. I will therefore vote on the parts affected by the amendment and then on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning Article I, Section 2, para. 1 point 4, Section 2 para. 2, § 7 para. 1, § 12 para. 3, § 19 para. 1, § 20, the heading to § 22 as well as § 22, § 30 para. 1 point 6 and § 32 points 5 and 6. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. I shall therefore immediately vote on these parts of the draft law, in the version of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Since the remaining parts of the draft law contain a constitutional provision and an increased decision quorum is required to amend § 38 of the Banking Act, I shall first determine the presence required for the vote of the constitutional number of Members. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is done by the majority. The request was accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (397 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Bundesrechenzentrum GmbH (BRZG) (477 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (398 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on the Establishment of the Federal Pension Office (BPA Act), which also amends the Dorotheum Act, the State Printing Act, the Procurement Act, the Parliament Staff Act, the Federal Care Act and the Pension Act 1965 (478 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13932	We now come to points 13 and 14 of today's agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Financial Committee on Government Templates 397 and 398 of the Supplements. The rapporteur on point 13 is Mrs Hagenhofer. I would ask them to open the debate and report. – Reporting shall not be reported in this case. The rapporteur on item 14 is Mr Fink. I'm asking for his report. – This report also fails. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13963	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments soon. We liberals are basically about privatisations and budget allocations. Mr Finanzminister! But if we look at the budgets of the last four, five years, we have to ask you: What did the previous "success of privatisation" look like? – 10 billion schillings were estimated in the budget, but at best between 1 billion and 3 billion schillings have been realized. On the basis of this experience, we no longer have any confidence in the Federal Government's privatisation proposals. They know that the CA should be privatized for five years. – The success was, apart from a lot of discussions that were not good for the bank, zero until now. Mr Finanzminister! On the budget allocations: It is only when they are efficient. We have our concerns about the efficiency of the distribution of the Federal Accounting Centre. How does the FGG get to these results within such a short period of time because of the documents you have prepared in the Ministry of Finance? – This is really a paper that is a bit difficult to decipher. I don't know if you can explain this to me. The current expenditure on property and personnel is replaced by the cost-covering principle for the Federal Republic of Germany, and the other benefits are obtained outside of this area. On the one hand, revenues are presented in the order of 14 million schilling, but on the other hand you show an operating profit, including corporate tax, of 15 million schilling. - How is that supposed to be? I think that this government proposal has been prepared half-heartedly and in the Husch-Puff procedure, which is why we cannot give our consent here. Mr Finanzminister! A plan for the next few years must, of course, include, in addition to the costs of the federal government, the objectives of this new society, which they realize, which customers want to address, and which revenues they predict. All of this is not available in this government template. I have to tell you quite honestly: This paper, this taxative set of numbers is sloppy, is not comprehensible! In addition, these documents and accounts will be withdrawn from parliamentary control in the future. We liberals can therefore by no means give our consent to this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have heard before what the composition of the Supervisory Board or advisory board looks like. The Supervisory Board of the Bundesrechenzentrum consists of six persons, four of whom are appointed by the Ministry of Finance and two by the Works Council. That's, please, an inbreeding event! They should not really accept this to the House, and they should not be confident that the opposition party will give its support to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14020	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14041	Mr President. Federal Minister! In particular, in the context of budget creation and budget implementation, it is often necessary to distribute meaningful parts of the administration, to form a separate set of accounts and thus to grant partial jurisdiction or jurisdiction. One thus comes to something which is unfortunately not possible in the administration of the Highness, namely to the terms "sol and have" and "wine and loss". Federal Minister! So I would have to rejoice and say: The Bundesrechenzentrum is such a unit, perhaps even quite logical unit, which has been distributed or designed autonomously in this sense and could enable us to achieve greater transparency in a very small, narrow section. Why I still cannot agree to this law has the following reasons: I am aware that in this case you want to expand and not privatize – perhaps not even privatize. This requires some debates. I wouldn't see it as strict as that, though. I mean, of course, that the word "outsourcing" could also apply to a Republic, with a corresponding rule to ensure the necessary protection, confidentiality, data protection et cetera – whatever you subsume under prevention reasons. That can be solved. But I simply can't agree because you rule out the privatisation from the outset – and that's what you're doing here – and say: That's not my intention at all! However, if not even later, at some point, a discharge into privatisation is finally planned, then a liberal parliamentarian cannot win for it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I am happy that you have agreed to a significant change in the Committee's negotiations, because, despite this exclusion, which is intended to remain 100% in federal ownership, you have not restricted the law of the High House. I would like to thank you for this right of interconnection. I would, however, like to bring another aspect to the discussion. Federal Minister! They have expressed themselves in the Committee – I have read this – that it is not planned to allow this distributed Federal Accounting Centre to participate in the market – in the sense of a competition. – Minister of State! This, however, contradicts the business object. I also do not think that you can permanently distinguish between private customers and other customers. This company will hopefully have good, ambitious and capable managing directors who will once say: The market is big, we want to prove ourselves. I didn't know why we should refuse them either. But you, Mr Minister, know – and we all should know – that this creates an overpowered and unconsuming competition for relevant professionals. I am not talking about the prevention of competition, but I believe that competition should be tightened and guided by antitrust law and other sensible measures, but should not, as in the "Wild West", be carried out with uneven weapons. If this distributed Federal Accounting Centre enters the financial services market, I fear many hundreds, thousands of small and smallest individual companies. That is why we will not be able to agree to this proposal either.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14108	Mr Van der Bellen has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14129	Mr President. Federal Minister! There is no question that this breakdown of the Federal Accounting Centre is an ambitious enterprise. Although I sympathize with many comments made by my previous speaker Mr Hazelsteiner, I am in favour of risking the experiment. The breakdown of the Bundesrechenzentrum has a long history. I believe that this question has already been examined by Minister of Finance Lacina seven or eight years ago, but has been dropped by various sides due to negative opinions. – As far as I can understand this, then the main concerns have been removed. The explanation also cites an opinion of the FGG. Minister! It is always a bit unpleasant for Members to quote positive opinions in such legislative texts, which are not available to the honourable Member. Perhaps, if a similar case occurs, one could supply such documents. In the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development said that he hoped for a better organisation of income responsibility and cost accounting. These are, of course, goals that Mr Hazelsteiner and I can understand and believe to be right, but certain doubts remain. These doubts are mainly based on the fact that a breakdown must always be accompanied by a certain market integration of the company. The distribution alone does little – apart from the fact that the budgetary restrictions, the service plan as a restriction, the restrictions on service rights and so on are missing. This is all beautiful and good, but if not at the same time the risks of the market become effective if the company which is being distributed here is not at the same time subject to the incentives and sanctions of the market, then it can go a long way. Court of Auditors reports, for example on the former road construction companies, provide enough evidence to ensure that the distribution alone does not have to produce anything positive. Whether the future Bundesrechenzentrum meets these basic principles sufficiently, there is a certain scope for interpretation. I am particularly unsure about the future activity of this society – Mr Hazelsteiner has already indicated it. There will be an area – if I don't cheat, it's in § 2 para. 3 to 6 the speech – in which the classical tasks, i.e. the tasks entrusted by law, continue to be fulfilled. However, there is also a completely open section, namely § 2(7), which opens up the possibility of entering further business areas. – The question is only whether and under what conditions there will be fair competition. As far as I have heard in discussions with competent officials is concerned, first of all, the Bundesrechenzentrum will only compete for additional public contracts, but not in the free competition for private contracts, for example from large banks, industrial firms and the like. In principle, this would be possible, the know-how is available. But all of this is not explicitly regulated in the law, it only leaves the door open to go there, so to speak. When, and under what conditions, this will be done, a matter of the business concept or the statute that will be negotiated with the Minister of Finance. Summary: There are risks, that's no question at all. I understand the concerns of the liberals and those of Mr Haselsteiner. But if the experiment succeeds, it will be very interesting... – I am done in ten seconds, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol gives the speaker a sign.]] I am not to blame for the fact that the President-in-Office has been brewing for two hours over a particular question. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: A fool!]] You, Mr Khol, perhaps not, but I am not sure why it will not arrive at these ten seconds which I have already "brown". If the experiment succeeds, it can give a very important impetus to further flexible forms of organisation in the public sector, which is why, despite all these concerns, we are concerned about risking this experiment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14176	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Climate. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14197	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try again to convince those who are good will. This is a data center in which over 400 highly dedicated, highly qualified employees work in the area of software engineering, network development and information technologies, employees who have created excellent software and hardware constructions as well as a corporate network throughout Austria. They are excellent employees who, for example, cannot offer their services at national and municipal level because of the fact that they are involved in the camera listics, in the federal system. These employees are to be given the opportunity to offer and market their excellent products in the public sector – and only that is intended – in the federal states and municipalities, as well as in foreign public areas, in order to obtain cover contributions. It is particularly gratifying – and this in addition speaks for the quality of these employees – that at a business meeting of 414 employees, 400 employees have spoken out for the self-employment of their company. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These employees will show that a clear order and supply-oriented structure in relation to the other Federal Ministries will be responsible for the results. I am convinced that this will be one of the good examples of self-employment, in that we can create more work and more jobs. I would therefore ask you to give your consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 23.2 1
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14238	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First we reach the vote on the draft federal law on the Bundesrechenzentrum GmbH and the title and receipt in 477 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. I should like to add the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is once again a majority of the case. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 398 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (370 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Pension Scheme Act and the Income Tax Act 1988 (464 of the Supplements) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (396 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the VAT Act 1994 and the Federal Act, which provides for accompanying measures to the 1994 VAT Act, (475 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (395 of the Supplements): Federal Law on State aid for health and social assistance (Health and Social Aid Act) and the Financial Balance Act 1997 and the Civil Fund Act 1996 (476 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (368 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Gambling Act (479 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (406 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Punciation Act (480 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14362	We now come to the items 15 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The rapporteur on points 15 and 17 is Mr Auer. I would like to ask him to open the debate and to give the reports. – The reporting shall not be reported. The rapporteur on item 16 would be Mrs Huber. I would ask for a report at all times. – This report is not available. The rapporteur on point 18 is Mrs Hagenhofer. I would ask for a report at all times. - This too will not be possible. The rapporteur on item 19 is Mr Fink. In any case, I would ask for the report. – This reporting will also be avoided. The first speaker is Mr Böhacker. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14399	Mr President. Federal Minister! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to deal with two matters, namely the Pensionsskassengesetz and the Novelle on the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Sales Tax Act and the Accompanying Measures to the Sales Tax Act. Federal Minister! The amendment to the VAT Act deals essentially with the implementation of the second simplification directive. This directive would already be adopted by 1. It was not possible to implement January 1996, but this was not possible by the new elections, which were deliberately broken by the fence. In Austria, therefore, the grotesque situation arose that a person who violates the VAT law but at the same time appeals to the Second Simplification Directive is getting right – a legal state, Mr. Federal Minister, who absolutely does not serve legal certainty and should be prevented as far as possible in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The accompanying measures to the VAT Act deal with the social and health problems. By introducing the incorrect tax exemption from 1. January 1997 would be a pre-tax recalculation according to § 12 para. 10 VAT Act came. Now, in these accompanying measures, the Sales Tax Act normizes that this VAT recalculation or pre-tax recalculation is not possible. Federal Minister! There are constitutional concerns about this. The withdrawal of the pre-tax correction according to § 12 para. 10 is unconstitutional. I refer to a statement in the "Austrian tax newspaper", written by the Ministry of Finance's "Emergency Tax Pap" Mr. Michael Scheiner, Minister, who writes – I quote –: This pre-tax correction cannot be waived for constitutional reasons. Mr Finanzminister! In the Committee's view, the introduction of a reimbursement of the advance tax in the following years would help to dispel these concerns. – One can discuss whether this is the case, but one remains, in any case, the discrimination of all those taxable persons who remain § 12 para. 10 to be taken into account. In any case, I assume that this is clearly a question of constitutional concern. Federal Minister! They will have to expect a complaint to be brought to the Constitutional Court. It is not reasonable for all other taxpayers to make this pre-tax correction, only those in the field of health and social affairs. Now to amend the Income Tax Act 1988. In the Committee on Finance, I have already received an application concerning § 3 para. 3 point 30 for the abolition of the so-called parking tax. I can make this request for reading: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request is based on the fact that in 1975 the Federal Ministry of Finance was issued, which shares this very legal view. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of continuity in tax law, I would like to seek the consent of this request. Federal Minister! I can also remind you that your party colleague Johann Maier, called SPÖ-Rebell, collected around 10,000 signatures in Salzburg and announced that he had signed on 21 January. In November, the Financial Committee will submit a request to this effect. Unfortunately, he forgot what he promised. I have, however, taken over the failure liability for these 10,000 citizens in Salzburg and tabled this request. We will observe very closely how, in particular, the SPÖ Group and specifically the trade unionists of this group will vote on this request for freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14493	The amendment just read is properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Müller has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14518	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Harmonization in the health and social field from 1. January 1997 as a result of the EU accession negotiations also made legal changes to the VAT Act necessary. These have an impact, inter alia, on social security institutions and pension institutions. They result in a transition from the real one to the false tax exemption. At the same time, this change means adapting our health and social VAT system to other EU Member States. In the absence of pre-tax deduction entitlement, this system change would have been granted from 1. In 1997 there was a considerable increase in financial expenditure on these areas or their legal entities. If there was no compensation, this would have had to be met with an increase in health and substantial increases in social costs. I am glad that the financial compensatory partners have agreed with the Minister for Finance and that it will recover the additional burden from the revenue tax increase. This compensation will be created with the present aid model, which we do not believe to be a constitutional concern, as Mr Böhacker said before me. However, this scheme also enables the institutions concerned to benefit from administrative and administrative benefits through the incorrect tax exemption. It is also particularly important for me to mention that, for those social institutions for which aid is not provided, an option right is possible to prevent distortions of competition. This means that, on application, the existing legal situation can continue to be applied and the revenue continues to be subject to the 10 % tax rate in favour of a tax exemption. Ladies and gentlemen! The simultaneous amendment of the Financial Balance Act is also to be seen, in particular, in connection with the reorganisation of hospital financing. It is known that the previous KRAZAF will be replaced by nine national funds for which the donation will be carried out in accordance with the same principles as the KRAZAF. . As this draft law is based on a negotiated outcome with the financial compensatory partners, we will give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14558	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14579	Mr President. Federal Minister! The question of the pension scheme of the second pillar or of a third pillar is certainly one of the essential issues in the context of future security or the pension provision of our fellow citizens. I believe that this affects a very central concern. I also believe that we have created a quantum leap in quality and the right path with a pension fund law at the time. I remember very well that, when the crises in the VOEST Alpine but also in other large, even private enterprises occurred, this was a subject, among other things, that many, for many years, employees who had pledged pensions, were suddenly given the choice to be content with a beggar or to risk their old-age pension at all. I therefore believe that this possibility of pension funds is a real improvement in quality. I do not understand or can only interpret these novels, which are now for discussion, which aim to distinguish whether the pension allowances are benefit-oriented or contribution-oriented: We tend to favor the performance-oriented commitments and take back the contribution-related ones. [[Interlocutory call from the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Federal Minister! That's my interpretation. I studied that and tried to understand it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: We wanted to create a way!]] I know, Minister of State, that's the possibility! But the possibility could also be created in a different way, namely that you agree with our amendment, which I shall read immediately. After that, we recognise that the amount of 10 per cent is insufficient for performance-oriented commitments, but that is not sufficient reason for a different treatment of contribution and performance orientation. I think it should be left to the entrepreneur to choose between the two basic models. For my person, I would opt for the contribution-oriented solution, because I believe it offers greater security, not only as an entrepreneur, but of course also as my employees as the future beneficiaries. Therefore, I do not fully understand this different view – even then, Mr Federal Minister, if the changeover aid is meant. – I think it could be solved differently. Since we believe that this difference is not justified, we request the following in an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! If we were to put the framework far enough – I believe that the possibility of abuse has not been given – we would thus give entrepreneurs a greater margin of freedom without having to fear that this change could be misused to avoid, especially in certain periods, income tax or corporate tax revenue. I know that's an amendment in the last minute. I just argued that you can't approve of something as long as you haven't read it and really studied it. Nevertheless, I ask colleagues to think about it. Federal Minister! Secondly, We now have an EU adjustment in the field of sales tax. We believe that this is, of course, the right way. But we do not understand the following: If you now aim to give doctors and others who have a cash agreement this opportunity, then we feel it not only under circumstances, but above all from a certain logic as even constitutionally questionable and as not understandable that you exclude other people working in the same field of work – entrepreneurs or freelancers. I assume that the people concerned – electorates, psychotherapists and others – do not make up a significant number of them from the population group. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: There are those who have a cash agreement!]] Those who have a cash contract are there. However, my colleague Martina Gredler specifically told me to mention that there are also practical doctors without a cash contract who, in order to be able to stay in the profession at health insurance rates or who have to work on them. For, unfortunately, in these areas too, there is a competition of God, if one approves of it in this field or not. Those in health care are really discriminated against. We do not see this, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, we believe that we should consider an amendment. I'm going to allow this to happen now. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe, Minister of State, that the question will be left open, as you cover it. There is no doubt that a regulation could be found. Mr Höchtl, even though few are, they deserve our respect. You may also need to be taken into consideration in an emergency and will be grateful if you know that you have treated these people well here in Parliament. I would therefore ask you to consider these two amendments in a favourable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14702	The two amendments just read have been properly submitted, duly supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr Höchtl has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14727	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on a law that we are innovation today, namely the gambling law. We know that this area has been well regulated in Austria for a number of decades. It is an internationally very sensitive area. This could be passed to an order that is not only accepted in Austria. In my opinion, the know-how that has been created in this area in Austria is also internationally recognised. Not only the finance ministers are always very happy that significant tax revenue is achieved, but also the others concerned, such as sports associations are happy if they receive some of these revenue to use the money for young people's promotion, sports activities or for larger competitions. This sensitive matter is well regulated. However, it is also necessary from time to time, due to technical changes, to meet them relatively early and to try to introduce new regulations and bring in barriers in order to avoid abuses. In the context of digitalisation and networking, it is relatively easy for some lucky riders to enter these networks and come into high revenue with little money. There is also the possibility, where appropriate, for foreigners not to pay taxes in Austria but to transfer the money abroad. It may also not guarantee the protection of players. We have therefore tried with this innovation to address such dangers and to make new rules. I am glad that in the course of various discussions it was possible to reach a consensus on this, and I believe that those responsible should always stand for consensusal solutions. Because of a consensus there is also the best chance to achieve a further development in this sensitive game market. Various measures may be envisaged, for example, in accordance with §56a. We have discussed this in the Committee and have decided on the Committee's position that such a closure should really be only an ultima ratio. All other measures should be taken before taking such a draconian measure. We of the People's Party believe that the regulations that have been found are good. We are committed to the consensus reached in the Committee, and we say with conviction that we are convinced that this will enable the further development of an orderly gambling market in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14767	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Trattner before. Please, honourable Member. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14787	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the amendment of the pension fund law. On the one hand, my criticism concerns overregulation by this law, on the other, I would like to criticize the fact that there is no system-compliant action. I have already told you in committee: It would be reasonable to claim the employees' contributions as advertising costs and then to tax them as a pension if they were later taken into account. It is clear to me, Minister of Finance, that this is very difficult for you in view of your budgetary needs. But what's happening here is not system-compliant. Moreover, although we are constantly talking about private pension provision and also about occupational pension provision, the removal of special expenditure from 50 percent to 25 percent, with all incomes over 700 000 S being excluded. Only this small share as a special issue is really too little to create a special incentive for an occupational pension fund scheme or an over-company pension fund scheme. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This criticism comes not only from the liberals, but also from the Board of Stock Exchanges, from the Chamber of Economic Trustees, from the Industrial Union and so on. I would now like to refer briefly to a point concerning the federal law which amends the gambling law. Mr Höchtl has already promised that Casino Austria has done very good work in this field, especially in the image sector and is very successful internationally. But what bothers me very much in international business is that of your official, the head of section Stanzel in the Ministry of Finance, with the subsidiary in Australia. Mr Finanzminister Klima! Your predecessor has obviously tolerated this. In an interview in the "Economic Week", Director Wallner said he had nothing to do with it. That was a wish of the Australians. Her predecessor, Dr. Staribacher, has watched this drift. They were in the same government at the time. They needed action at the time – and you now need action. It is really incompatible, Mr Finanzminister, that a section head, whose supervisory authority is the supervisory authority of Casino Austria AG, at the same time not only has a stake in such a company, but also has an income in the order of 40,000 dollars. I have to tell you quite honestly: It certainly does not do well to the image of Casino Austria when you look there and not respond. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The question is quite clear – the stock price has fallen by more than 50 percent since the purchase of the shares by now –: Who's up for the loss of a course? Is Mr. Stanzel coming up with this? Who buys the shares? Are they bought over the value? . I believe that the House has a right to give an open and honest answer to these questions, as such events harm the image of our casinos, which was built with a lot of effort and commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14843	Mr Bundesminister Klima has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14864	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have preferred to see that, as I believe, quite good law on turnover tax and the resulting support of nearly 17 billion schilling for health care by paying off the pre-tax loss. I would much rather have been concerned with the Pension cash law, which now gives me the chance to invest 40 instead of 30 percent of the assets in share capital. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's not how it is!]] I am sorry, Mr Trattner, that I now have to deal with the case raised by you. I think it is a little unfair, allow me to make this observation that you have this case, which I personally... [[Further call of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Mr Trattner! Please listen to me! I've been listening to you too! I find it unfair that you have a case that I personally explain to you and whose solution I have also personally explained to you – yes, I personally! – to bring here and today again. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You me?]] I therefore believe that the following points should be made: First: Mr Stanzel has committed no legal offense whatsoever. It has all been examined by the internal revision of my department and it has been found that this was approved by the competent Federal Minister for Finance in 1995. There was no legal offense here. I would add, however, that after a discussion with me, Mr Stanzel has offered and found a solution which ensures that he does not get into the insider suspicion. After laying down the balance sheet for the year 1996, it will issue its shares and then deposit its supervisory seat in the Annual General Meeting after consultation with the Australian lawyers. – But you must already know that, because I told you that. As I said, I don't think your behavior is very fair. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14940	I call Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14961	I would just like to say a few words about the State Aid Act and the Novelle Sales Tax Act: The reasons for this are the EU directives in both cases, which leads me once again to the preface that the EU unfortunately captivates itself on the wrong tax harmonisations. Wherever it is necessary, namely in the field of capital income tax harmonisation or also in the field of corporate tax and in similar cases, the EU is in arrears with harmonisation, while there, where it would not be necessary or necessary, energetic directives for harmonisation are put in place. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But the situation is that, and the State Aid Act is now creating a certain compensation for those professional groups that are particularly affected, i.e. all medical professions, hospitals and so on. Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner has already addressed in detail the question of why certain professional groups should be excluded from this – and I am not aware of that either –: so-called electoral doctors, freelances, physiotherapists, psychotherapists, midwives and so on, as far as they do not have a cash agreement. In these groups, the Minister of Finance or the Federal Government apparently assumes that those in this group are small – very small! – have an input in their turnover. – This may usually be the case, but, for example, in the case of new ordinations, it is a rather dubious assumption. In addition, it is assumed that, by removing VAT, these professional groups have a margin for increases in fees, without any additional effective burden on the patient. The latter, of course, is purely economic, in principle correct, but I had to tell my conversations with representatives of psychotherapists, physiotherapists and midwives that the reality in the psychology of price increases does not always follow the textbook. It is quite possible that, in a number of cases, the patient is aligned at the net price and says: So far, I have paid 700 S per hour plus 20 percent VAT. Now VAT is lost, so I pay 700 p. – Of course, the 20 percent price increase margin is theoretically available – whether it is accepted by the patient is on another sheet, especially when it is accepted. In any case, it should be: I believe that, in certain cases, problems may occur in a combination of unfortunate circumstances, because, because of the commitments of the Ministry of Finance – when it was not a minister of climate, but its predecessors – the freelances in this area were able to believe and have to be subject to equal treatment in this area. I would therefore ask you to support the amendment tabled by Mr Haselsteiner and me. Now very briefly on the sales tax law novelle: There is now the x-te novel under the title "EU Second Simplification Directive", I do not know how much it is. – I have to tell you honestly: I don't know how many in this area have looked at these sales tax laws novelle. [[Abg. Böhacker: I looked at you!]] So you're an expert! I can only say: If sales tax law has already been one of the most complicated materials: After this simplification, there will certainly be fewer professionals who are familiar with this matter. I do not want to address the individual casto pieces now. Personally, I can only say: Finally, in a completely failed attempt to become a sales tax expert, I ended my project with the hope that the Lord God or otherwise might save us from the next EU simplification directive. [[Abg. May. Ederer: You are still a young person!]] So young, Gitti Ederer, I'm not either. Nevertheless, we also agree with this VAT law Novelle, because Article II provides for the sad pre-tax history of care institutions, blind homes, health institutions and so on. – I do not really see this at all, but I assume that the case with the so-called retroactive pre-tax deduction at the hospitals is now really settled. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15015	Now there is an actual correction, but not to the claim that Professor Van der Bellen is a young person. [[Abg. Grabner: He's not that old again!]] Mr Trattner has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15048	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! I'm actually correcting: I have never spoken with you about the case of casino participation in Australia here at the government bank. You have to confuse me with someone!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15075	The next speaker is Mr Schreiner. – The speaking time is set to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15097	Mr President. Federal Minister! In itself, I would like to talk about the novels of the punching law, but now I would be interested: What's true about that? – There is a section head, the supervisory body and at the same time involved. You said you explained the Trattner in a four-eye discussion. We would be interested: What is really true of that now? That has already been thoughtful, Mr Federal Minister! [[Abg. Böhacker: He doesn't listen!]] But I can't imagine something: Can you possibly imagine, Mr Federal Minister, that in an economic fidelity firm, the head of the large-scale audit appears at once as a participant and also a lurker of profits, or that, for example, the Federal Tax Inspector is also a member of a tax attorney's office at the same time, without you knowing or perhaps even approving it? Federal Minister! We ask you to inform the public and Parliament about this. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He didn't pay attention!]] We can also make a written request. Federal Minister! Now to the punching law. I have already expressed my opinion on this in the Committee. I believe that in this regulation, which is now an EU-compliant regulation, we should consider ourselves as another novel of the Punciation Act today, yet we should consider whether a Federal Punciation Office is really up-to-date – or whether we do not bring the goldsmiths and the jewelers by certificate and by oath to confirm the value of their supremacy, namely the gold-punity content, and by passing an opinion. I believe that it would be much more important to take a step forward and to leave an expert on what alloy is available. There are many higher-quality metals – palladium, tungsten – that cost a lot of gold and where the expert makes it. We would save ourselves a Federal Punciation Office – we could leave it replacementless – and it would be a further act in addition to their work for goldsmiths and jewelers. I think that would be a possible simplification. The report of the Financial Committee states that the Federal Punishment Act also allows the transmission of smogs by postal. That means that until now it has been subverted, so far you have had to drive these gold pieces over long distances. I do not want to hide that this was, of course, also a problem of insurance, and on the postal route this will probably be the same. Let us do the pledged professionals in the future, and we will do away with this Federal Punciation Office without any replacement!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15161	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15182	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the revision of the gambling law. The gambling sector has already achieved considerable importance in Austria. Its above average tax benefits as well as contributions to income and employment security underline the importance of the economy as a whole. In addition to the Federal Fiscal Interest, regulatory objectives are in particular the basis for the revision of individual provisions for the protection of the gambling monopoly. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Justice in the Schindler case in 1994 found that national provisions on the protection of the Member States' gambling monopolies are in accordance with Community law. On this basis, the Member States of the Community maintain their monopoly in the field of gambling. The Austrian legislator's decision to use the single concessionaires in both the casino and lottery sectors has proved himself best in the past as well as in the interest of the federal government in both fiscal and regulatory terms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of this amendment is therefore to make the offer of their products impossible for those providers who offer gambling in the gambling market through the increased use of new technologies and without prejudice to existing legal regulations. National and international experience shows that the inclusion of legal instruments in the field of regulatory law regularly guarantees better surveillance for the State supervisory authority as well as a level playing field in the event and execution of the activities controlled by the Federal Government. One example of this, ladies and gentlemen, is the new introduction of the lottery "6 out of 45" by the legislator, which was a successful extension of the gambling monopoly and thus to a great extent prevented the departure of gambling capital abroad and the event of gambling in illegality. Considering in particular the new technologies, which would also allow foreign gambling operators to offer gambling in Austria, as well as the amount of the investment needed and the resulting revenue expectations, criminal threats such as the increased punishment of the new § 52a of 300 000 S appear necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the acquisition of the concession in 1968, concessionaire Casinos Austria AG has provided a tax benefit of 20 billion Schilling, the Austrian lotteries concession since the company was founded, with a tax benefit of 34 billion Schilling. A total of 54 billion Schillings were paid to the Austrian state. Austria's sport received an amount of 3.2 billion schilling during the same period – and as one of the leaders for sports, you have to say thank you very much. Of course, I can only join my friend Höchtl in this matter. I say it quite openly: Mr Wallner and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sticklers guarantee the good leadership of these companies and also the support of sports in Austria, which they so urgently need. I therefore request your approval of this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15246	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Ruthofer. Speech time: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15267	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly deal with the Health and Social Aid Fund Act. The legislative adjustments made necessary by the accession of Austria to the EU will take place from 1. A substantial financial change in the health sector in January 1997. From this date on, there will be an incorrect exemption from VAT. There is an incorrect exemption from VAT if a person does not need to charge a VAT, but is not entitled to deduct the tax. Since a large number of intermediate benefits, but also pre-tax investments, arise for doctors, health care facilities, public or non-profit hospitals, health services and other health professions, in the amount of tax that can no longer be deducted in the future. These additional charges are to be reimbursed by so-called compensatory payments. Practical doctors, dentists, dentists and other contractors are entitled to compensation. The Federal Minister for Finance, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has set by regulation the rates of compensation based on experience of the economic conditions of the respective group of enterprises. In response to my question to the Finance Ministers in the Financial Committee, these compensation rates will be 3.4% for practitioners and 4.8% for dentists. In this way, a satisfactory solution has been found for these professional groups. However, there are other professional groups, namely psychotherapists, that is already happening several times today, midwives as well as liberals, who are from 1st century onwards. In 1997 the tax-free turnover was also generated, but no compensatory payments are provided for. This is justified by the fact that these categories of occupations are subject to VAT on inputs to a much lower extent. The electorate and their patients are also experiencing a bad situation. After the introduction of the 20 percent retention, for example, Carinthia's electorate lost one third of the patients. The air goes out, says the spokesperson of the election doctor, Dr. Robert Schmiedhofer, in an article in the "Small Newspaper" of 23. ==References== Especially young physicians who invest large sums in their practice, such as the free dentists, are at risk in their existence. But it is not only about the good of the doctor, but also about the patient. With the dismantling of the electoral system, the fundamental right of the free choice of doctor will be breached with feet, Schmiedhofer criticises. This law does not include the return of health insurance to patients in the use of election doctors. Paragraphs 3 and 10 refer only to the claim of doctors and dentists for aid and not to those of the patients in the reimbursement systems. The main association of the Austrian social security funds refuses to include the reimbursement of the costs of optional benefits in the aid system to the detriment of the insured. It is about a very large number of patients who are constantly using the approximately 5 500 established doctors without a cash contract, i.e. election doctors. The main areas concerned are those in which constituencies who are mainly established are largely oriented in the production of fees to the patient's rights of replacement, so that their retention is as low as possible. The exclusion of patients from the entitlement to compensation for the reimbursement by the health insurance company should be constitutionally worrying, says the Austrian Medical Chamber. On the whole, this law is to be assessed positively if one looks away from these disadvantaged professional groups and electorate patients. That is why we will vote in favour of this draft law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15324	The next speaker is Mr Auer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15346	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up the amendment of the VAT Act in order to remind the Government Party's agreement in the Europe Agreement to set up a working group to check the appropriateness of the pre-tax for flat-rate farmers in the light of the price trend which has occurred as a result of EU accession. Federal Minister! According to Wifo, the forecasts on price developments have been confirmed. Producer prices for agricultural products fell on average by exactly 22 percent in 1995. The raw income and thus the basis for calculating the pre-tax rate decreased by 20 percent compared to 1994. The consequences for farmers are: They have paid much more VAT for investments in the purchase of business needs than they have earned on the sale of their products. The Wifo quantifies these losses for 1995 with 1.2 billion schilling of systemic loss. For compensation, the Wifo calculated a pre-tax fee of around 12 percent. Federal Minister! The package for the purposes of the VAT is intended to help to avoid, as is known, hardness and inappropriate administrative burden. The law does not provide for a benefit or a burden on flat-rate holdings and would be system-consuming. In order to avoid such a systematic support or load, the pre-tax rate must be set at a neutral level and checked regularly for appropriateness. The pre-tax rate is then neutral if the flat-rate establishments as a group take the same amount of VAT on the sale of their products, including their own consumption, as they paid for the purchase of resources and services. The tax on turnover is thus also used for flat-rate establishments for transit, which neither favours nor taxes them, and the production of this justice, this compensation, ladies and gentlemen, is to be remembered because it is neither a favour nor an advantage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion I would also like to thank the Committee for its understanding of the amendments tabled by Auer, Hagenhofer and Auer, Novotny, in particular those amendments which have saved farmers from high amounts of additional payments on exit from the tax system. They should have committed themselves for five years if they opt when they return to the package. And, I think, this broad agreement in committee is a real sign at a difficult time. Once again, Minister of State, the production of the fair balance was remembered from 10 to 12 percent. Otherwise, this revision of the VAT Act is, I believe, a very positive regulation, which we can all give our approval for good reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15400	The next speaker is Mrs Frieser. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15421	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will shortly respond to the second simplification directive of the VAT Act. Looking back, in 1994, the Sales Tax Act – and I am right to give you, Professor Van der Bellen – has really brought some change. It is not possible to hide: From the tax advisor's point of view, this was quite complicated, considering that the concept of a businessman, namely the concept of turnover tax law, has brought some burden on so-called small entrepreneurs such as journalists or other workers. I believe, however, that the two-year transitional period for the incorrect exemption that we have decided by means of the 1994 VAT Act was quite an appropriate period and that those concerned were able to address it accordingly. However, it was a government budgetary act of violence to finance pre-tax relief with 17 billion schilling. That, I think, can be seen unisono. In a material way, I would like to highlight in a positive way the disappearance of the state of the de facto state of self-consumption in the event of hidden distribution of profits. Especially in the case of operational tests, this has often led to unloving surprises and overloads. But another particular concern is my heart, Mr Federal Minister – perhaps a third simplification directive can be created in this regard. A particular bureaucratic effort is to recover tax paid by companies abroad as a so-called pre-tax deduction. It is necessary to fill out long lists of each individual amount, the original documents must also be provided. I think that this is a problem with regard to the obligation to keep evidence: Often there are no more originals, and photocopies do not always need to be recognized. In addition, the foundation takes an infinitely long time. I should therefore like to ask you, in particular, in the interests of small entrepreneurs, to carry out a bureaucratic decommissioning here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15464	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15485	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the decision on the Pension Scheme or the Pension Act has taken a step in the right direction towards the second pillar of pension provision, i.e. the occupational pension scheme. However, the expectations that have been linked to the effect of this law have not been met: At the time of the decision, pension funds such as the Schwammerln have been shot out of the ground. Many have been liquidated again because the attractiveness of providing business is simply not yet given. With this innovation of the Pensionskasses Act, a screw is turned – a small screw – to increase the attractiveness. The first is that the entrepreneur himself can enter this contract, but with the disadvantage that he cannot make his contributions, which he pays, tax. This is certainly a weakness that needs to be remedied. The second: The investment criteria from which pension funds can benefit from higher yields by raising the stock stock stock from 30 to 40 percent and, above all, in foreign shares, can no longer be charged with 15 percent, but in the future with 25 percent, the possibility of achieving higher yields and dividends, but also the risk of taking a higher risk. But, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Dr. Haselsteiner has called for in the Liberal Forum's request to invest 20 percent of the wage and salary amount, I am more likely to think of it as a wish for the Christian child, because if, as in the past, not even 10 percent of the Austrian companies are used up, then 20 percent will probably not be used. This is a step that can follow in the fourth or fifth amendment. I'll give you the right to: Every serious specialist recommends the contribution-oriented pension insurance, because it can be calculated. One can calculate the contribution-oriented pension payment, but not the benefit-oriented one, because it is bound to an index – whether that is the salary adjustment or another index – so that the person who goes into retirement is paid the corresponding pension in full. I like, as I say here, the proposal, Mr Mag. Trattner made it. There will be a need to talk about this on the occasion of a next novel. In order to make the whole system more attractive, it would be useful and appropriate to relieve the contribution payments at all tax and to tax only the pensions to be paid. – I know that in times when it is narrow, in times of the savings package, this is not possible, but I believe that if further changes are to be made to increase attractiveness, we should also consider this direction so that the second pillar of pension provision, namely the company, can be installed and secured accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15536	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Kröll. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15561	Mr President. Minister! High house! The colleagues Höchtl and Grabner have already outlined the essential contents of the novel of the gambling law, so that I can really take a short look. This amendment to the gambling law is one of the essential prerequisites for securing the fiscal revenue from the Austrian gambling monopoly, which, in view of the rapid technological progress, is exposed to the most diverse threats posed by illegal or foreign providers. As explained in the explanatory remarks of the presentation, the maintenance or consolidation of national gambling monopolies is also compatible with the legal framework of the European Union. In the past, it has always been shown in Austria that the type of exercise of the gambling monopoly, involving two exclusive concessionaires, Casinos Austria AG for casino games and the Austrian lottery company mbH for the field of decentralised mass gambling, is an optimal solution. This is particularly true of the fiscal revenue already mentioned by the Austrian State in the way of the Federal Ministry of Finance alone in the last fiscal year, which amounted to 6.6 billion schilling. Furthermore, only in a scenario with single concessionaries of the player protection enshrined in the gambling law can only be realized – I would like to point out this argument in particular – which essentially consists in refusing to enter, in whole or in part, at risk of entry. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were, however, several competitions that these players could visit, this would not be possible. Alone concessionaries have another advantage, and that is the real reason for my word: Only through them can various services be provided to the general public, whether in social, cultural or sports sectors. If the concessionaries had to offer under competitive pressure, these funds, which are so beneficial to the public, would be used for aggressive transport advertising and for sales and sales advertising. In order to continue to take action, this innovation is of great importance. As examples of such services for the general public, only the extensive sports promotion of the Austrian lottery company and Casinos Austria AG in the context of World Championships, Olympiads or other major events was mentioned. Of course, the Director-General, together with his staff, also plays a major role in his role as President of the Austrian Olympic Committee, is grateful. Ladies and gentlemen! But I would also like to highlight the special promotions for peripheral sports, for disabled sports in particular, whether it was the Paraolimpics like in Atlanta or the Special Olympic World Games, in Salzburg and in Schladming or similar regions. I know what I am talking about, that is of general importance to the economy. This institution is of particular importance to the public. In my capacity as spokesperson for Special Olympic Austria, I am therefore grateful to the people concerned, the mentally disabled, for this. But the communities also know what they have at Partner Casinos Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Advertising is forbidden in Parliament!]] Through many cooperations in various areas, it is possible for municipalities to cooperate in regional cultural, economic, tourism and sport for performance sports, as well as for disabled sports. In this sense, I too - and I hope you all - agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15598	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the votes which are carried out separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Pension Funds Act and the Income Tax Act, including the title and receipt in 370 of the Supplements. Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request in Hiezu. Mr Haselsteiner and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. I shall therefore vote on the parts of the series submitted by the applications referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been agreed. As mentioned, Members of the Böhacker and Comrades have tabled an additional request which is based on a provision of § 3 para. 3 Z 30 referred to in Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this supplementary request, Böhacker, to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Deputies Dr. Haselsteiner and Comrades have an amendment concerning Article II Z 1 § 4 para. 4 Z 2 lit. a and literae cc and dd brought in, and I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. I shall be voting on these parts as part of the Government's draft, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of them to be a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. I therefore come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign on this point. – These parts are adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of the motion also at third reading be raised by the sittings. . I note that the draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the VAT Act 1994 and the Federal Act, which provides for accompanying measures to the VAT Act, together with the title and receipt in 475 of the Supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law in 475 of the Supplements to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The second reading has just taken place. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. – I notice: The proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft federal law, which regulates health and social aid and amends the Financial Balance Act and the Civil Fund Act (476 of the Supplements). There is an additional request from Dr. Hazelsteiner and Dr. Van der Bellen. I shall first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law and the title and receipt. The vote will be taken by Dr. Hazelsteiner, Dr. Van der Bellen, who will insert an amendment. 2 in Article I § 3 on the content. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request by Haselsteiner, Van der Bellen, for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a need for a vote on the requested amendment of paragraph names. We shall vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This was decided by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. – I notice: The draft law was adopted by a majority majority in third reading. Next, we vote on the draft federal law amending the gambling law (368 of the supplements). I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign. – Mr Haselsteiner, this is a vote against? Yeah? – The proposal is decided by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority in third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the punching law, together with the title and receipt in 406 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this proposal to the Punciation Act to give a sign. – This was decided unanimously at second reading. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. I should like to ask that those Members of the House who wish to give their agreement at third reading should do so. The proposal was unanimously adopted at third reading. We have thus dealt with these points on the agenda. 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (393 of the Supplements): Federal Act granting a federal grant to Burgenland on the occasion of its 75-year membership with Austria (481 of the supplements) 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (371 of the Supplements): Federal Act on the sale of unmovable federal assets (482 of the supplements) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (372 of the Supplements): The Federal Act on the sale of non-movable federal assets (483 of the supplements) 23. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (392 of the Supplements): The Federal Act on the sale of non-movable federal assets (484) 24. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (213 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and exchange of notes and intellectual information (485 of the supplements) 25. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (333 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the performance of further contributions to the World Bank Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) for the years 1996 to 1998 (486 of Supplements) 26. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (334 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Drawing of Additional Capital at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) (487 of Supplements) 27. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (350 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Performance of an Austrian Contribution to the 7th General Refill of the funds of the African Development Fund (ADF VII) (488 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15857	We now come to the points 20 to 27 of today's agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I do not have any proposals aimed at carrying out oral reporting. That is why we can turn to the debate immediately. Mr Schreiner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15884	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to focus briefly on the replenishment of the African Development Fund's resources. The Federal Minister for Finance has kindly informed us in the Committee on Finance that very long negotiations have been held on whether to participate. It's a total of 199 million schilling. I know that there are very many objections to paying these amounts into these funds. There are objections to it, and there are positive votes. The positive votes always refer to the fact that we are already very much criticized in the OECD report that we do not make enough funds available for development aid as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not wish to remind you that there is also a very massive criticism of the issue of the safety of these development aid payments. This is about 39 countries in Africa. There are Court of Auditors reports of the European Union which say that 8 per cent would be met. Ladies and gentlemen! I really do not think that in times of a savings package, in times of stress here in Austria for families, for small earners, and for many, many commercial operators, including many small businesses, we should pay some 200 million schilling in these funds, without knowing that we are practically giving 16 million to the really needy, while 184 million schilling more or less simmering. We from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore not vote in favour of this refill of the African Development Fund's resources and the drawing of capital shares in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and contributions to the World Bank's contributions to the World Bank. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15924	The next speaker is Mr Fink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am briefly dealing with the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America to avoid double taxation. The use of the same tax item at the same tax rate in different countries in relation to the same person for the same period leads to a double taxation. The consequence of this double taxation is often economically unbearable and, above all, unfair. The multiple taxation in the different countries leads to a conflict between the tax rights of each Member State and thus to a conflict of tax systems. This is due to the need for intergovernmental measures to prevent this double taxation. These are legally binding by international law and become part of the national legislation through the corresponding constitutional approvals. The government's current proposal redefines the tax relationship between Austria and the United States of America and replaces the current agreement of 1956. This agreement is no longer in line with internationally recognised principles. A comprehensive adjustment of the agreement to the current state of development of international agreement law therefore requires an overall revision of the double taxation agreement. The current agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America is a legislative treaty and contains neither constitutional nor constitutional provisions. The new agreement eliminates double taxation in the area of income taxes due to the overlap between the national tax rights of Austria and the United States in a way that meets the requirements of modern economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15988	The next speech is by Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16009	Mr President. High house! I would like to speak to comment on the federal grant to the country of Burgenland on the occasion of its 75-year membership with Austria. Of course, a round or "angled" birthday is an occasion to celebrate. However, the Burgenland is not a person. I do not think we have any gifts to distribute at present, but we have heard several times today that there are dozens of families living at the poverty line. I assume that with the 25 million Schilling in the debate, 50 to 100 such families could be liberated from their illustrious situation. In my opinion, it is not justified to distribute gifts, especially since we have experienced something like that before, last year. There was a referendum donation for Carinthia in 1995. What happened to it? – The public schools in Eisenkappel and Ebriach were renovated, the street in Sittersdorf was asphalted, and a sports ground in Galicia was renovated. A heating system was installed in a kindergarten in Globasnitz. In Neuhaus dangerous road sections were removed, in Köttmansdorf the cemetery was enlarged, in Finkenstein the maintenance of the foot and bike paths was carried out. I wonder what this has to do with a referendum donation, especially as the funds really did not benefit those concerned in the sense of improving living together. That is why my group will not approve of this project. Federal Minister! Secondly, I would like to comment on the increase in the EBRD. They know that the European Union is planning to co-finance two nuclear power plants in Ukraine, the RBM type nuclear power plants. This is the type that already exists in Mochovce and must be rejected from an Austrian point of view. The Federal Chancellor assured me a few months ago that officials were instructed not to support this project. I now ask you whether you have become active in making it clear to other countries that we are preventing this project and that we have to solve the energetic problems that exist in Ukraine in a different way. There are solutions that have been developed and are much better in economic terms than RBM reactors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16049	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16070	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am just taking a short position on the contributions to the three international institutions. The Greens support the World Bank's contribution to research, the African Development Fund contribution. As you know, after the Committee discussion, we were a little skeptical about the contribution to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because, as Mr Gredler has already said, negotiations are currently under way on the financing of these two Chernobyl blocks, Rowno and Chmelnitzky. But now the Federal Minister has responded and wrote me a letter to which some photocopies had been attached. I do not want to tell you in detail now, but I would just like to quote a few words about the EBRD's policy. Federal Minister Klima writes to me: "These conditions are so restrictive in practice that no financing of nuclear power plants has yet been achieved. For example, the Austrian representative in the bank is also required not to agree to any financing that could result in an extension of the life of nuclear power stations by means of increased safety standards. In the case of a case-by-case financing of two Chernobyl blocks, a corresponding request is made by the G7. The Bank has assured that its general principles will be applied as strictly as in the past, taking into account the environmental aspects in particular. The Austrian representatives, not only in the bank, but also in other bodies where this issue could possibly be dealt with, are strictly dependent on consenting to appropriate financing of closure costs only when Chernobyl is closed." - Quote. Under these conditions, we are willing to agree to the contribution to the drawing of additional capital shares for the EBRD. I would also like to point out that, a year ago, in this relationship, the Austrian Parliament has committed itself by a resolution which, in my view, is unusually strongly formulated for such diplomatic demarches, which Austria would consider to withdraw from the EBRD if it were to finance nuclear power plants. In this sense, I hope that all these promises will be respected and that the Austrian Parliament will also comply with the 1995 resolution. We are prepared to agree on all these points.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16122	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16144	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is welcome if, for federal purposes, essential properties, assets and rights are sold and the proceeds are transferred to the Federal Budget. The situation is somewhat different when parts are sold from businesses, for example when the Federal Forest sells the Blühnbach power plant in Salzburg. These 135 million schilling sales revenues should not disappear in the figures of the budget, but should remain in the company so that the corresponding capital assets will be secured in the future. Federal Minister! I would urge you to leave these 135 million Schilling sales revenues, which the Federal Forests will succeed in leaving in the company and not taking them into the budget!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16179	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16200	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On and on, I had a speech prepared. However, I do not want to keep it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I just want to replicate what Mrs Gredler said. Mrs Gredler! As a Burgenlander, I can only say one thing: It would have been best if you had stayed in the European Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I don't think that's what the Burgenland has deserved. It's not about any achievements, it's about a symbolic gesture. There was a lot to say about "75 years of Burgenland". I don't want to go into it now. I can only promise: We shall endeavour to use this money in such a way that it will work in the long term, for example in the creation of a Youth Employment Fund. I do not want to say any more about this because I think that Mr Achs is going to speak for the Burgenländer and I would like to leave him a little bit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16255	The next speaker is Mr Achs. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16276	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Burgenland celebrated its 75-year membership with Austria this year and thanked itself for the federal grant granted from this occasion to the amount of 25 million Schilling. When the Burgenland came to Austria in 1921, very sad economic and social conditions existed in the most recent federal state of Austria. There was neither a state capital nor an intact infrastructure, let alone enough work. These circumstances have helped to strengthen the trend of the Burgenländer countries to emigrate. Many countrymen found work and a new home in the United States of America. Despite these circumstances, the Burgenländer have believed in their country and worked hard and honestly on further development. In 1938 the Burgenland was dissolved, and our common history ended. In 1945, we managed quite quickly to lead the Burgenland to the prosperity of the other federal states. Wearing, endurance and toughness, combined with a skillful national policy, have made this possible. We had the unheard-of happiness of having politicians at the head of the country who had a good hand for the leadership of the country, starting from the head of state Lorenz Karall to Theodor Kery to Karl Stix, the latter having a very strong economic competence and leading the country wisely and successfully. In these 75 years we have managed to give the Burgenland identity, each of which has preserved its own personality and charm. However, we have also succeeded in bringing the country to the other federal states in the economic field. Of course, we have always relied on the support of the federal government, and we are looking forward to this one-off commitment, Mr Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16321	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16343	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers, Mr Steindl and Mr Achs, have already said, the fact that the Burgenland has been part of Austria for 75 years is certainly a reason to celebrate. Especially Burgenland as a structurally weak area, as Objective 1 area, needs any help from the federal government. As a Turkish Member, I thank you very much for the unanimous decision of the Financial Committee. I am convinced that the Burgenland will use this money effectively and well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16370	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft federal law granting a federal grant to the country of Burgenland on the occasion of its 75-year membership with Austria, together with the title and receipt in 393 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. – I notice: The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Next, we vote on the draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets, including title and receipt in 371 of the supplements. Here again, I can ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to the draft law for a sign. – I notice: The draft law was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to obtain a sign. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on the draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets in 372 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the second reading paper to give a sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at second reading. Third reading: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. The next proposal concerns a federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets and the title and receipt in 392 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal to give a sign. – I notice: Adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give a sign. This draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements with the United States of America on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and exchange of notes and intellectual information. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. . The request of the Financial Committee was adopted unanimously. Furthermore, the draft Federal Act on the performance of further contributions to the World Bank will be voted on by the Advisory Group on International Agricultural Research for the years 1996 to 1998, together with the title and entry into 333 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill for a sign. The proposal was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to the draft law to give a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft federal law on the drawing of additional capital shares at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, together with the title and receipt in 334 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law to give a sign. The draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign. – This draft law is adopted by a majority of the majority in the third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft federal law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the 7th general replenishment of the funds of the African Development Fund and the title and entry into 350 of the Supplements. In the event of approval, I may ask to rise from the seats. The proposal was adopted by a majority in second reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to the draft law in third reading to express it. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 28. Point First reading of motion 252/A by Dr Martin Grafund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Banking Act
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16526	The next item on the agenda is the first reading of Dr Graf and Comrade's motion 252/A concerning a federal law amending the Banking Act. We are going into the debate. The applicant shall be the first to speak. Please, Mr. Dr. Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16554	High house! Mr. Minister! The Banking Act or the current situation is formally after a change. The high image of banking secrecy, which "acquired" in Austria – under quotation marks – is an unmistakable image, and is only due to the fact that in Austria there is a specificity based in the anonymity of savings deposits or other funds that have been created. In the past, we have had to recognise through European but also international constraints that this anonymity will break through. At the opening of a savings book, anonymity, at least in relation to the credit institution, was broken by the introduction of a legitimization obligation starting at a level of 200 000 S. The anonymity of securities accounts has recently fallen. I clearly remember that, as a result of the accession to the European Union, Mr Khol, today Klubobmann, was present to the general public – I was present in person and told him that I will always remember – guaranteed the anonymity of savings in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will tell him again and again because he has to stand up for it when this anonymity is lost. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Be glad that you do not have to stand up for what the Haider has said!]] However, anonymity does not constitute the banking secrecy and the quality of the protection of the saver or the customer in this regard. Austria's international financial centre should be ensured by strengthening Austrian banking secrecy, because it is already disintegrated by the loss of anonymity, according to Austrian solution. However, the protection of the saver must not only be guaranteed to the financial or other institutions, but also to the credit institution, which is why we have tabled this amendment, which essentially meets the essentials and is capable of bringing banking secrecy to Swiss level. The proposal is good and right to ensure the future of Austria's financial centre. The purpose of banking secrecy is to be broken through only with regard to criminal offences and thus to achieve an international standard. Another unicum in Austria is that financial authorities can almost unlimitedly and without control gain insight into sensitive data from protected customers. The negligent violation of banking secrecy as well as the attempt to incite it should also be punishable and the violation of banking secrecy can be pursued by its own initiative – all in accordance with international standards. It is very important that consumer protection should be subject to the introduction of a burden of evidence allowing the consumer to effectively combat violations of banking secrecy against its credit institution. The fact that, due to the final taxation of savings, different provisions of the current Banking Act are obsolete is only mentioned by the way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, as part of the first reading in general, it is not necessary to maintain international competition in this respect or to take steps here. I therefore urge you to enter into a constructive discussion in this respect not only for the benefit of the credit economy, but also for consumers and savers, and invite you to accept this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16600	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16622	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. – Minister of State! There is no doubt that the question of anonymity in the context of accession to the European Union is, in my view, a sad spectacle. Everyone must have been aware that anonymity is incompatible with European legislation. It would have been wise, therefore, to prepare the people for it, because we know that a people who have had two monetary reforms in three generations and lost their savings due to other events is traumatic and hereditaryly burdened. I think it would have been possible not only to explain why anonymity is actually obsolete, but also that there is an effective replacement for it. They have put it themselves because in the last major tax reform plant with the introduction of the final tax the main reason for anonymity, namely the withdrawal from the income of savings, has been removed. It would have been just a small step to explain to the population that it is not dangerous to give up anonymity. However, we believe that this should have been accompanied by a substantial strengthening and improvement of banking secrecy, which we have often called for. Federal Minister! The Securities Supervisory Act or the Securities Supervisory Authority to be created reveals this schizophrenia in connection with your right of guidance – which you will exercise gratefully, but which will allow you to enter banking secrecy on the occasion of a suspicion. On the one hand, we want to save the stock market and the financial market Austria, on the other hand we do not trust to put the measures on the table. Federal Minister! It is clear to me – I am convinced that you and your officials too – that: Without a common European procedure, in particular with regard to the tax treatment of capital proceeds – this must be synchronized if we do not want to risk serious misdemeanors – it is difficult. However, I believe that the objective, namely to intensify banking secrecy, is an hour's commandment, and I am convinced that, at least on our part, we will conduct these discussions in committee very openly and objectively. I call on Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr. Novotny to go openly into these discussions and believe that we will have few differences from the point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16662	The next speaker is a Member of Parliament Van der Bellen. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16683	Ladies and gentlemen! I am entirely in agreement with Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner. It has long been forgotten that anonymity will not be maintained and cannot be maintained, and I think it is totally missing that the population should not be made clear to the public, but rather – on the contrary – to waste the blame on Brussels or on the ECJ. This anonymity is an old-fashioned construction. But if it falls, we have to think about whether something should be changed in the area of banking secrecy or not. I think there is a need for reform here. That is why I am pleased with the request. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Join the application!]] However, I would like to discuss the reform of banking secrecy – not only because of the freedom of choice – and I would also like to listen to the proposals of the Banking Association, the Sparkassenverband and so on and look at the international regulations. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Just one point: As you see in your explanatory statement on page four at the very bottom of the point, that due to the final taxation of savings, the maintenance of paragraphs 3 and 8 of paragraph 2 of the Banking Act is no longer necessary, I am enigmatic. It is true that interest from savings account balances is subject to final taxation. But this is also the only thing, because many other things are not subject to final taxation and remain quite relevant in this respect. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the announcement to the Notary!]] Sure. That should be maintained until you can prove it to me better. This is precisely the problem of anonymity, not only because of tax evasion and the like. In the event of a death, for example, the heirs may fall for their inheritance because of their anonymity because they know nothing about it. – And you want to abolish that? I don't understand at all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If a savings book is anonymous, you won't get it in the death case!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Paragraphs 3 and 8, to which you refer, do not specifically concern savings books, they apply in general, and you take out a very specific point, the savings books. This has to do with points 3 and 8, but you will explain it to me in committee. Mr Khol is already asleep. I'll close it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16759	That's a correct message. Please, Dr. Khol, you have the floor for the actual correction. I would ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, to observe the speaking time of 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16784	I am correct in correcting Mr Van der Bellen's statement that Mr Khol is already asleep. The right thing is: He hopes to be able to sleep soon.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16811	I wonder if there are further statements at the first reading of this paper? This is not the case. Then the debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Budgets. 29. Point First reading of motion 313/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16853	==References== The item on the agenda is the first reading of the motion for a resolution by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades on a federal law amending the law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. We are going into the debate. There are words available. The speaking times that are still available are for the liberals: 5 minutes, for the Liberals: 2 minutes, for the Greens: 6 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. – Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16886	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for letting the club members of the two government parties in the daily press of last week in a newspaper article. It was about the rights of the House, which are now being reduced by another massive attack in the form of a reform of the Rules of Procedure, and which is intended to fully adapt to the government legislation. Mr President. You have therefore acted perfectly correctly if you have guided these two clubs via media, that this will not happen and that some constitutional principles will apply also in a coalition – which, admittedly, still has a constitutional majority in the House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's planned? – A very thin pact, which we conclude with the countries and communities, which, as a consultation mechanism, has the quality of the Perchtoldsdorf Pact, of which we know today that no longer even the "Salzamt" is responsible. No one – including the Austrian People's Party – is talking about this pact and its immeasurable end. Every now and then, the head of state Purtscher comes up with this calender because he knows that the Vorarlberg voters were put in the window before the EU referendum. This is a pact which guarantees the countries that in the future the federal government will no longer pass laws on the countries and municipalities. The Maastricht criteria are to be obtained. A clubman then directed us at the Presidential Conference: We would have to change the Rules of Procedure because otherwise the coalition would suspect that the countries and communities would pass laws on to the finances of the countries and communities without review, but that they would do so by means of own-initiative proposals. Simplely expressed: The coalition wants to adopt a reform of the Rules of Procedure in order to prevent itself from displeasing the countries themselves against a pact and a treaty concluded with the countries. So you protect yourself by reforming the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The background, however, is quite different, namely that in line with the law in the future, any initiative, especially the opposition groups, can be shubbled until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. In the future, the Committee will decide by a majority whether the Government will draw up an opinion on whether or not the request made by a political group in the House to consult the Committee should be dealt with further. This is government law pure: The government tells us what we will be able to advise and decide in Parliament in the future. In addition, the government will be set a "adequate deadline" – one can imagine what will be considered an appropriate deadline for the opposition groups' applications if the government is to draw up an opinion on whether or not these applications will be made further in the House. – All of this under the pretext: Consultation mechanism with the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! That's sooting! Mr President, Mr Fischer said quite rightly – he had to let himself down the next day with unqualified peels – that it is not going to happen that this will not be broken over the knees, that this will not happen in the House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President. I hope that you will not bow to the pressure of the club members of the two government groups and will continue to be ready to defend the rights of this House. If the countries need a representation, they do not need such a ridiculous pact as the Perchtoldsdorfer, which is not worth the paper on which it is written, and also by the signature of the Federal Chancellor will no longer be worth it. They finally had to upgrade the Federal Council. Either the Federal Council is aware of the interests of the country – or we will take it away: 65 politicians less, 65 pensioners less and 65 payers less in the country! Let's get him out of here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the Federal Council is unable to exercise the rights of the countries for which it is necessary So you're a consultation mechanism? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If the Federal Council is no longer able to prevent legislative decisions that are at the expense of the countries and communities, then create Get rid of this Federal Council! – Become from us In any case, you won't get anything else to hear. This request only proves that you are trying in the future to completely house the opposition groups of this House of Government legislation and thus to make this Parliament an extended arm of the Federal Government and to extend the shadow of the Federal Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16980	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17001	Mr President. High house! I note with interest that Mr Stadler has openly admitted that the 13 or 14 Federal Councils of the Liberal Group are Spesentritter. It is good that this is noted in the Minutes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You were once the Federal Councillor of us!]] Only I wasn't a spreeman! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You also wanted to put off a lipstick, I heard!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're still a spearman!]] I only have two minutes! . But I want to come to the point, but I do not want to talk specifically about the consultation mechanism, because it is not the subject of these Rules of Procedure, but rather the matter of that paper – in the two minutes available to me – that is the debate. On the consultation mechanism I think is an evil and I hope that it will not be presented in this form, we will have another conversation. First point: You want to use § 28 para. 3 declare that self-employed applications and amendments must include a description of the costs. I believe that this means nothing more than domesticating the opposition because everyone knows that such opportunities to provide a detailed cost are not available for the opposition. In addition, you are talking about valid calculation rules which are not yet available. This is also the Chuzpe, whose coalition is increasingly using itself, namely that it is always making any regulations on non-existent grounds. The valid calculation rules have been promised x-times, until today they do not exist. The next point is – and this is not bad at all – that the assessment of the financial impact of legislative proposals is also the responsibility of the Budget Committee. We do not need our own determination, but it is not bad when it comes to it. The real evil, however, is § 40a, which states that the Minister of Finance should draw up opinions. First of all, I must say: The term "respects" should at least be understood as meaning that it is assigned to an unconventional body, which the Minister of Finance cannot certainly say. I believe that It makes you very consciously the bock as a gardener. Secondly, They want to maintain a legal violation of the division of power that the Constitution... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The fact that the division of power is abolished here, that the Bock is made a gardener and that there is obviously nothing more than to dominate the opposition, will lead us to reject this matter of law, even if it comes to plenary or committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17078	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17099	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Rules of Procedure Novelle is based on the question of cost transparency and the establishment of a Committee on Budgets which took place this year, you have not fully understood what has been done on this survey and what the various experts have said. I myself have already done this at a press conference of 13. That's what I said this year. I don't want to stop you now. There is the problem of the opinion: Who's doing the opinion? – Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has already said it. There is also the problem: Who decides on the collection? The majority – they could have always decided. It will be interesting if it becomes a minority right to obtain such opinions and opinions. I am very excited about the discussion in the Committee. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17135	No further words are available. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 313/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the Negotiation. That's what we've done with the agenda. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-11-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17169	I declare that in today's sitting we have received Amendment No 325/A. Question No 1478/J to 1522/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Thursday, 28. November, 9 a.m. The agenda shall be taken from the communication distributed in writing. At the beginning of the sitting, Question Time will take place. The sitting is closed.
