ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2245	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you all and open the 8th. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 10 a.m. Deputies Dr. Lösnak, Mag. Frieser, Applebeck, Ing. Maderthaner, Voggenhuber and Dkfm. Ruthofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2276	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Mr Foreign Minister Vice-Chanceller Dr. Schüssel is represented by Mrs. State Secretary Dr. Ferrero-Waldner. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2300	In accordance with the agreement, we reach the current Hour with the theme: Non-social impact of rental policy in Austria
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2321	First of all, Mr Krüger has spoken. His speaking time is ten minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2343	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The great coalition took place in 1990 and promised, in the Government Declaration, to create a modern, new and transparent right of residence, to implement a harmonisation of the laws of residence and, above all, to eliminate opaque provisions and to create a universal transparency and understanding of the law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The message was very well heard by the Austrians, there were only no actions in the further practice, or if something was effected, it was badly effected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the years 1990 to 1993, red and black were eagerly negotiated, Hader and Zank were on the agenda. You couldn't agree. The other party was accused of being in breach of the contract. And so there was no right of residence in these years again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This three-year period of negotiation, which was marked by mutual accusations from the end of the negotiations, the resumption of the negotiations, has brought nothing but a paralysis of the housing market. The homeowners were insecure. They were not aware of whether a new dirigistic residence right of Marxist embossing would come or whether flexibility would take place in terms of rental rights. In short: The housing market was paralysed, the apartments were held back and this uncertainty caused by the negotiations removed from the general housing market. In 1993 one finally has a housing law – the 3rd. Let housing rights change law go into review. The result was an all-sided rejection. The rejection of the law is certainly the smallest common denominator of all 80 opinions. In this situation, the red-black coalition has been able to help. One has submitted an own-initiative proposal to the third. To pass the law on housing rights by the review. He then came to the vote in plenary and the third. Law on housing rights is with the voices of red and black – against the will of the liberal opposition! – to be adopted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The goals that were set were high, but what are the results? – There were no more apartments on the market, there were no cheaper apartments on the market, there was no greater social thinking in the area of housing law. There has been an inconsistency of the laws of residence, and there is still, above all, legal uncertainty. I can tell you that in my capacity as a lawyer, of course, I am very intense with the 3. The law on housing rights has been laid down and the relevant training institutions have also been visited. I can still remember very well that the Doyen of Austrian housing and rental rights, Mr Hofrat Dr. Würth, has been in front of the assembly and said: Ladies and gentlemen! Although I have been dealing with residence rights for 20 years, you do not expect me to be able to declare a law that is incomplete, which is imprecise! So one of the country's biggest experts was unable to define even close to the cost of the contract created by the new housing law in the form of rents. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== The law on housing rights may be a force for interest groups or an employment therapy for lawyers, but the objectives one had set, namely to bring more homes, cheaper homes to the market, to transport more social engagement into housing law, could simply and simply not be achieved. This 3. However, housing rights change law is ripe for a record, namely for the record of incomprehensibleness. If there were a Guinness book of records for incomprehensible, senseless and implausible laws, that would be 3. Law on the right of residence of the first candidates for a registration. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be naïve to assume that at the next time, in the federal legislation on housing law, that is, with regard to the rental law, something will change. However, there is a direct need for action – the housing law can be changed at any time and very quickly here without long preliminary consultations. Ladies and gentlemen! One third of all Viennans live in cooperative apartments. The cliché of the interest vulture, perhaps at the end of the 19th century. At the beginning of the 20th century in Manchester-Liberism and perhaps at the beginning of the 20th century. ==References====External links== This cliché has been taken over by the non-profit housing companies – or, for example, by the municipality of Vienna. The municipality of Vienna is the largest residential owner in the world. The housing cooperatives are horten Bauland. They are the best customers for banking institutions. Yes, they are more concerned than housing cooperatives. These housing cooperatives, which are true biotopes of the party book economy of red and black, have geared their rental interest rates in such a way that loans already repaid are not taken into account less interest rates in favour of the tenants, but this remains quite simply the same, even if the financing of the apartment has already taken place. This leads to families paying apartments several times, although they only have rental rights. Ladies and gentlemen! All this is happening in the dark circle of SPÖ and ÖVP! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just the opposition that's criticizing here. The Court of Auditors has examined the non-profit housing companies and has come to the conclusion that millions of schillings are charged with bank funds instead of using the money for the construction of residential buildings. For example, the housing company of the Austrian Federal Railways, a non-profit company with limited liability, has spent five times more on securities than on residential construction. Or the WAG in Linz: It has liquid bank assets of 80 million schilling and 700 million schillings in securities. At the same time, however, loans are received which are charged to tenants. Or the Gesiba: Ladies and gentlemen! 20 years ago, the millions of gesiba were encapsulated in the desert in the corruption of the Bauring scandal. Where are they today? – They dry up at the bank institutions. In Vienna alone there are deposits of 7 billion schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2419	I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2434	We demand that the rents be reduced because the loans have been repaid. We are therefore pleased that social construction here in Vienna is finally taking part. But there is a legal requirement to dry out these biotopes of socialist and black party book economy in the form of cooperatives.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2465	The Federal Minister has spoken. The speaking time should also not exceed ten minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As hardly any other area of civil law, rent law is characterised by a particular social component. This is simply and simply due to the fact that it is a basic need for man, namely to live on whose satisfaction people are existentially dependent. Therefore, they cannot react simply to a shortage of good housing or to an extravagant price level as in other non-consumable goods, which is why the market forces' play in this area can only be limited. Its resulting social function is fully in line with the existing rental law and the resulting Judicatur as a whole. ==References== Despite the objections expressed here at the time of its creation and already well-known, housing rights change law has made a number of important improvements, which can also be attributed to a social dimension. First of all, the most extensive reduction in the so-called six-month contracts that allowed rents to be completely outside the scope of the rental law is to be mentioned here. In conjunction with often difficult chain lease contracts, this type of contract has often been used in the past to rob the most socially vulnerable to the full extent of the legal protection of tenants. By limiting the six-month contracts, a very sensitive gap in the protection of tenants could be concluded. The same applies, without being able to address it in detail, to the legal elimination of the previous one-year contracts by the 3. Law on housing rights. The certainly still-optimising target value system has by no means missed certain positive effects on the rental interest rate level. It should not be overlooked that the category A housing area is 3rd. The law on the right of residence is practically subject to a rent-rate scheme. This has led to a very noticeable reduction in the rental interest level for these objects. This, as well as some other restrictions on the interest rate of housing, is accompanied by a further development, which entails a tangible relief for those seeking housing, namely the clear decline in the unscrupulous redemption. ==References====External links== Thus, the law on housing rights has succeeded in effectively opposing the forbidden redundancies. ==References====External links== Law on housing rights, important improvements in the field of conservation and improvement: On the one hand, contributions previously withdrawn but not yet used could at last be added to their actual provision, namely the maintenance of the houses, on the other hand, by increasing the amount of funds collected for maintenance, the number of rental interest increases which were very taxed on the tenants under § 18 of the Law on Rental Law has been significantly reduced. This also made a contribution to the approximation of different rental charges in one and the same house. Of course, the observation of rental law also shows areas in which problems exist, which also have a social dimension. These are mainly the time-limits for rental contracts relating to apartments and the rental interest for business premises. ==References== Residential change law created a general possibility to limit leases to exactly three years of legal effect, has made use of numerous landlords. ==References====External links== However, it should be feared that many families who have only received temporary rental contracts under the new legal situation will lose their residence in 1997 because the landlord will not agree to an extension because it could only take place for an indefinite period. Since I felt that an arbitrary intervention by the legislator to convert such leases into lease contracts was very problematic for an indefinite period of time, I advocated the creation of legal measures for an agreed, temporary extension of these leases. However, caution and reluctance should be exercised in this context in order not to push back the number of leases concluded for an indefinite period of time even further than before. This could not be without an impact on the effectiveness of legal tenant protection, because it is unlikely that a tenant hoping to extend the contract would hardly want to engage in a serious discussion with the landlord. Another word about business rental: ==References== Law on housing rights has been intervened in existing rental contracts for business premises insofar as in many cases – for example, in the case of a change of power in the company that owns the business venue – the landlord has been able to raise the rental interest in 15-year-olds to a reasonable rental rate. Many landlords, however, have demanded very high rent rates – that is, inappropriate – as part of this increase. Of course, these do not have to be paid by the tenant. The tenant may carry out a judicial review of the demand for increase. It has the option of reimbursing the reasonable interest rate specified by the court, which is determined taking into account the possibilities of yield in the industry, until the termination of the first instance, based on non-payment of the raised interest rate, is completed, thus preventing termination. Since relevant decisions of the Supreme Court concerning the appropriateness and also industry relevance or experience as set out in § 46a of the Law on Rentals are not yet known, it is not yet possible to state whether a legislative measure is required to amend § 46a of the Law on Rentals. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular these, but also a number of other questions, I believe that a broad public debate is needed, which I also wanted to give an impetus to with my previous words. The Federal Ministry of Justice will continue to actively participate in this necessary discussion process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2555	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this opinion. In the course of the further discussion, speaking hours shall be five minutes each. I call Mr Kurt Eder. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2583	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of "living" is undoubtedly one of the most sensitive social policy issues – the Federal Minister has said – and the fair distribution of housing according to individual needs and demands requires a constant observation of this area. In this respect, the issue of "living" is always a current topic for us Social Democrats, and we do not only deal with it when, for example, a current hour is held here. One of the biggest challenges in housing policy is to resist the temptation to rest on the successes of the past. Even if this is always denied by the FPÖ: These successes are undisputed. Since the First Republic, it has laid the foundations for our exemplary housing policy by developing a global housing policy and policy that is still recognized today. This has continued continuously in the Second Republic, in particular in the areas of housing promotion, housing public utility law and tenant protection. Although Austrian housing policy is extremely good at international comparisons, critical comments must also be made. However, this must be done punctually and purposefully. A flat-rate rejection, as said by my previous speaker by the Freedom Party, and evasion of the ordinary system, in my opinion, is simply without responsibility, because obviously only personal, political populist calculations are assumed. ==References== Many things were achieved in the field of fixed-value rents, as, contrary to the previous legal status, a limit on category A rents was reached again. Furthermore, there was a reduction in the short-term non-social lease contracts and, also mentioned by the Federal Minister, an increase in the protection of sub-rents as well as an improved possibility to hold back unauthorised redundancies; also the enforcement of necessary maintenance work on the part of the tenant was clearly facilitated. However, the S & D Party has always stressed that the 3rd party is a member of the European Parliament. The law on housing rights is a compromise and not the complete implementation of social-democratic ideas in the housing sector. We have therefore long sought meaningful adjustments. We have, in particular, warned against the insufficient determination of surcharges and discounts from the outset. We also consider it possible to extend the scope of an comprehensible rental rate limitation – for example, on sponsored dwellings. In addition, there is a need to further reduce the time-limit, and we are also open to a change in individual regulatory competences. In all this, however, it must be stressed that compromises will also be on the agenda in the home area, as a housing law reform will remain without broad social consensus or without a compromise commitment to consistent enforcement and control otherwise grey legal theory. In this legislative period, we will therefore make every effort to ensure that people who need an apartment receive decent and, above all, affordable apartments. We will work to ensure that we continue to discuss the possibility of finding clearer rental rates or restrictions. This means further development of the indicative system with clearly limited surcharges and discounts, as well as a widest limitation of time-limitation, and this does not mean short-term lease contracts as far as possible. We thus strengthen the protection of termination and do something against housing on time. We also call for an extension of the scope of the rental right to dwellings, particularly in terms of price formation. We want to strengthen the development of housing, as the consolidation programme already provides, and we need to use funding more efficiently and socially accurately. I would like to say to Mr Krüger, after he has gone to seminars to study the new rental right: I think it would also have been useful – you were not in the process of negotiations at the time – to look at the proposals of the liberals. For all these proposals, which were made to us by the Freedom Party, which at the time you were not in the process of the negotiations, would not only have led to significant increases for all tenants. I don't wonder, because in your ranks the landlords are just sitting: the real estate agents. That's nothing negative, they have the right to make money. You only want this at the expense of the tenants. We are here to protect the tenants and to ensure that social balance is maintained in the future. This has been written to you, Mr Krüger, in the main book. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2634	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2655	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current hour and its subject have been proposed by the Freedom Party. Only: The first speaker of the Freedom Party was not very up-to-date in his criticism: What Dr. Krüger mentioned here was what admittedly happened in the creation of the 3rd. The law on housing rights has been expressed by various parties two years ago in fears, including what has been expressed by the liberals in criticism. He has only completely slept what has been done here in the meantime, and many critics of 1993 and 1994 have been silent in the meantime because they have been taught a better person. So something that has been feared has not occurred at all, namely that district courts and conciliatory bodies are granted with the corrective procedures in such a way that they no longer comply with the work at all. There's no talk about that today. This has not proved true. For example, if you look at the examination of the Vienna Landesinnung der Immobilienfierhänder, it turns out that after the entry into force of the residential reform 69.7 percent of all dwellings, more than two thirds, were rented indefinitely and less than a quarter, namely 24.7 percent, limited to three years. The rest then concerns other time-limitation options of the rental law. With regard to the indicative value – it has been said that it is undeterminable and nobody knows it – it became apparent that 50 percent of the apartments rented according to the reference value are rented with a monthly rent of less than 50 S per square meter and 80 percent with a rent of less than 70 S per square meter. So, obviously, landlords and tenants know very well, and the low-priced effect has occurred. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Dr. Krüger! They obviously did not listen to the Minister of State, who, due to the observation of the market and to the legal proceedings and the actions which are filed, can rightly say that the discharge has been suppressed. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is naïve!]] ==References====External links== Laws on the right of residence are being reached. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is boundless naïve!]] But thank God has not been realized what the Freedom Party has proposed everything – here the theme "Unsocial Impact of Rental Law Policy in Austria" fits. And if Mr Krüger is already inaccurate, he could have told us the proposals of the FPÖs from 1992 and 1993. Press conference of the Federal Party Minister Dr. Jörg Haideram 19. November 1992 – I quote the proposals literally from the FPÖ press release –: For all rents, a rental rate must be set up which ensures the maintenance of rental houses and a return comparable to other types of investment. A value-secured rental rate is, for example, 25 S maintenance charge plus minimum yield of the owner of the house from 30 to 35 p. According to Adam Rieese, these are minimum rental rates of 55 to 60 S, that is above the indicative value for a category A apartment. According to Haider, this should apply to simple apartments, saying immediately – very honest and very clear: "He never lied to you" –: "Integrated into existing lease contracts: Single new regulation for the previously-favoured dwellings: Regardless of the quality of the apartments, the rental rate for simple housing and business premises should be considered as the maximum limit, i.e. 55 S to 60 S per square meter." And now, Haider makes a competition with Mr. Werner Faymann – I don't know who overtakes left or right, whether Haider Faymann overtakes left or Faymann overtakes Haider on the right – and says: For cooperative rents – that is, my Dr. Haider and Faymann – no longer allowed to remain the same after the rent rate has been promoted, but must be lowered to 32 s.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2712	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2728	This is purest populism, which is contrary to your own policy, and we do not participate. We believe that it is useful to follow the success recipe of Austria, the social market economy, in housing policy as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2758	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2779	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals like to take the invitation to a discussion on rental rights here in the house, because – like the Federal Minister in a press release dated 16 May. We are faced directly with the problem of the first three-year lease contracts, where under the current rental law there is no possibility of an extension, unless there is an indefinite contract. This discussion will come to us, and I am surprised, Mr Eder, that we will have to find different solutions than they are currently provided for in the rental law. And if you say here today that it is necessary to limit the possibility of time-limits even further, that means nothing but to withdraw more homes from the market, because those who could be awarded at certain times are not granted. We will face the fact that the prices for apartments continue to rise, because – and this is the real problem – an excessive demand is facing a low supply. As long as it is not noted that we must finally have more courage to let market mechanisms work in the area of housing law, as long as we do not solve this problem. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can refer here to a study commissioned by the AK which deals with the experience gained in the application of the indicative value system. Here, Mr Federal Minister, I must oppose your view that the redundancies would have declined to such an extent. The right thing is – at least according to this AK study – that there are still 38 percent of the newly concluded rental contracts that do not appear in the contract. This means that, if there are no other solution mechanisms, money in the non-legal area will seek and find its way. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals recognize, contrary to what their political counterparts have repeatedly promised them, that living is a basic social need. But precisely because it is a basic social need, the central question for us is: How can we satisfy this basic need, and how can we ensure that people find apartments within a reasonable period of time and can rent them at a reasonable price? We therefore believe that this area is not a subject of class struggle, but must finally be used for a supply-oriented housing policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We are concerned – and it is no wonder that this issue is emerging right now, in the run-up to the Vienna elections – that housing policy will be a very central issue of the Vienna election. We must beware of the reflex, wherever there is a problem, of making even stricter, even more inflexible provisions. Because we have problems in the rental sector, not despite the rental rights we currently have, but in many areas precisely because of this right of rent. And if we do not allow more flexible provisions in this area, we will simply be unable to deal with these problems simply and simply not. They will continue to exist and will also be used in politics to tell people: You need this party or that party, so that – even though you have been in control of the Social Democratic Party for a very long time in Vienna – you can finally solve this problem. They have been solving it for years, not for decades, and not because you are simply not willing to take a new path. The Liberals therefore have very comprehensive ideas regarding the reform of rental rights. Our primary objective, ladies and gentlemen, is to increase the offer of housing, because only an increase in the offer will lead to a fall in the price. We also believe that we need more incentives to bring to the market empty dwellings or less-used apartments, because the right to rent in force only means that all persons who can only afford to keep their homes – regardless of whether they are used or not. But when it comes to Vienna – and the rental law is a central problem, ladies and gentlemen – the Liberals do not agree to make it clear that there must, of course, be equality between non-profit and industrial housing companies, especially in the area of municipal housing. For example, there are tax differences which are not justified. Nor do we see, ladies and gentlemen, that the exclusion of foreign citizens in the award of municipal housing in truth has led to the ghettotization and the integration of these people in Austria is much more difficult. For us, it is a central point to take this social component into account and to involve it more closely in the discussion. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we will be more demanding both at the federal and at the national level for Vienna. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2851	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2872	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The housing law 1993 was strongly influenced by the then ÖVP building speaker Keimel. The SPÖ has completely surrendered in almost all points – it has given up the tenants, and the result of this shows us the situation on the markets. If you now object that you had warned me, Mr Eder, then I must stop you: It is not enough for the strongest group in this House to warn against negative effects, but it has a good law to adopt. That would have been necessary. Federal Minister! Thankfully, you have pointed out very honestly some serious problems of this law, for example, the deadlines. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like You said here that the majority of the contracts were not limited. That may be the case. But it hits the most socially weak when temporary. You and I, in fact, most of us here, do not live in unprotected rental conditions, but the socially weak do, but these have been given up by this legislation. I share your opinion that there must be a change, because it turns out that a bad law, a legal palawatsch always leads to new laws and very problematic interventions in contractual situations. They also pointed out the problem of business in the city. – I can already tell you: The conciliation bodies, Mr Schwimmer, are not in a position to deal with this problem. I myself can say as a person concerned, because I do such procedures: Since the entry into force of this law, there has not even been an appointment. The courts are closed, but that is not because of the corrective value systems, but because of other phenomena. We have a handful of speculators in Vienna who are terrorizing the market, and these damage the fair owners and owners as well as the users. But the driving of these handfuls of speculators working with all the means – that goes to the naked terror – has not been achieved. There are counter-instruments, such as expensive territorial services, but what is actually needed is a better new law, which does not allow such abuses at all. The FPÖ is now taking up this issue. That's what I'm asking myself: Dr. Krüger, what do you really want to do with it? In the FPÖ's election programme, it has been said that the protection of the contract should be maintained, that the state price schemes fall. That was twice as expensive apartments in the plain text, and that is exactly what is happening to the socially weak. This meant deterioration – probably not in the upper range, but for the socially weak already. So they want to strengthen the maladministration. This also applies to the Liberal Forum. Mr Barmüller! Free market may be useful in many areas, but not in the area of housing and renting, because one cannot increase the basic space available at any time and one cannot completely refrain from any land ordination, spatial planning. I hope you don't want to cut the Vienna forest off. It is therefore not possible to increase the area. It happens in economic terms then only one thing: If the offer is scarce, the price goes up. There must therefore be a new system. It is not just enough to expand the offer, so much cannot be built to be the master of the problem. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: It is a positive basis!]] There can only be a sensible new rental right remedy. The Greens applied for this in 1993. We have tabled a detailed request that you have rejected, as many green applications have. It's based on three pillars. Firstly, the rent rate, which is limited in amount, is not the crown of peace, but an amount which allows at least the maintenance of the house, up to a maximum value of approximately 60 p. Second, there is no time limit in the case of commercial rental. Member of the Keimel has always thought of the individual landlord of one or two dwellings, and this has become the guiding principle of the law – the wrong model! In case of commercial rental, there must be no time limit. Only in the area of private tenants should this be possible, there it can be on its own needs or something else. Thirdly, we demand strict control of the communities and the public. In particular, older, favourable, financed objects must be awarded according to strict social criteria. They know as well as I do that the current red and black cooperatives are not being dealt with in social terms, but that luxury objects in the best districts of Vienna are only awarded to protection children of red and black. That is why we now demand...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2904	Talk time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2919	We demand that a new rental right be decided quickly. But with this coalition partner, you won't bring that together.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2949	The next speaker is Mr Schöll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e2971	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The course of the discussion so far has not brought any satisfaction or satisfaction to those who are looking for an apartment or who have no affordable. With attacks on our federal partyobmann Dr. Jörg Haideror with class struggle or with the generation conflict, the conflict between Alt and Jung, this topic will not be solvable. Undoubtedly, it will always There are ladies and gentlemen who are inside, so to speak, who have an affordable apartment, but unfortunately there are many who stand outside, who either have no apartment or cannot afford affordable dwelling at present. [[Abg. Edler: Do you want that?]] It really amazed us yesterday: We have given you – Mr colleague, you too – the opportunity to finally create order in the housing law by stating that it is probably not social if tenants of housing public utility houses, where the loans have been paid out for 20 years, are still to an "wild" extent, to an unnecessary extent. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] But you, Mr President, did not take this opportunity yesterday, and we were very surprised that the Socialist Group, in particular, did not support this proposal – just as the People's Party and the Liberal Forum did not support it; the Greens were not in the hall at all. This will not be soluble, ladies and gentlemen. I have, of course, taken note of the Schalmeien of the Federal Minister for Justice with a view to the temporary rental arrangements. I would like to say to you that: It makes no sense to condemn the people who now have to leave after three years to this fate. Our opinion is: It is necessary to extend the three-year lease contracts, which naturally has to be done in consensus between tenants and landlords, and there can also be multiple extensions, such as those currently in the case of residences, for example, for a period of about ten years. We, ladies and gentlemen, certainly have no joy at all with the current impact of the indicative system. This brings legal uncertainty, which brings numerous proceedings at the conciliation bodies – as has already been admitted here indisputably today – and this does not mean any limited maximum rents. Our proposal – because you have requested that – which we have already made here in the High House at the time, on the occasion of the third WÄG – is something that I have called "smart" – provided that, in the form of a rental mirror, the maximum rents will be set according to the location, condition and size of the objects. Unfortunately, you have not taken this our suggestion seriously. It also plays a lot of inconvenients in the rental of business premises. In many cases, for business premises, maximum rents are claimed by merciless vultures. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we can also introduce a rental mirror, a so-called business space mirror, which regulates it rationally and above all fairly. It is certainly unsocial, if what is still the case in many homes has been paid for the same apartment or for apartments of the same size, in the same house, 1,000 s so far, and 10 000 s are collected by young families who now move in. No one can justify that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there are still some – unfortunately among us – who are leaning back, who are satisfied with this situation. You can't be serious! And unfortunately, there are a lot of people who are only doing a policy of announcement and don't want to do anything here. Hundreds of thousands are looking for an apartment, hundreds of thousands cannot understand that you do not want to change this social system. I say to you, as a representative of a professional group, that has to do with this over and over again: The brokers will also have to make a small contribution to this. [[Abg. Edler: Look here! "A little contribution"!]] Especially in the case of temporary leases, especially in the one-year lease contracts, it is justified to ask for a small step back – especially at a time when many need to tighten the belt – and to place a consumer-friendly and correct sign.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3049	The next speaker is Mrs Doris Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3073	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Since my colleague Eder has the demand package of the Social Democratic Party on rent law – which begins with the demand to shut down periods as far as possible and to keep as low as possible as possible as possible – and goes up to the desire to set clear rent rate limits and include promoted residences in the MRG – I would like to see the opportunity to address the discussion that has taken place so far in concrete terms. First point: Proposal to make amendments to the WGG, in the Housing Law. Where social democrats are specifically responsible – and it turns out that problems arise again and again – they act. Specific example: In Vienna it is not long awaited whether or not there is a change in the WGG, but immediately said: If non-profit housing cooperatives wish to have funding, they must be included in the lease agreement that, after repayment of the annuities, only maintenance rents must be cancelled. That is, not to talk about it for a long time, but to act in concrete terms, which does not mean that we do not continue to raise this demand, and, of course, we cordially invite the "F" as a driver. We Socialists have made clear rules on this issue. Otherwise, it looks where the liberals are in the decision-making position. Who then held the state councillor, Mr Schmid, to bring about such a regulation for the Styria market as well? The opposite is the case: There, the measures taken by Schmid in the field of housing development have led to the fact that the initial rents in the assisted housing area are twice as high as in Vienna. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Double that high! [[Abg. Scheibner: Nobody gets an apartment in Vienna! Incredible!]] Half the rent. And it will increase the rent there in the following years to 250 S/m2. To this end, the actions of the liberal housing council in Styria lead. This is the proof: no idea of social housing, no idea of tenant protection! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to address the situation in Vienna again – we should remember this –: In Vienna, there are twice as many people living in the area of private old houses as there are in the cooperative apartments. In addition, an investigation by the tenants' association showed that in the private old house about 150 000 S per apartment are required for illegal redundancies. And exactly these tenants we represent. [[Abg. Scheibner: The apartments are not on the market at all! It's a nonsense!]] In 1995, the tenants' association achieved a refund of 30.5 million schilling on illegal proceeds. 30.5 million schilling! The fact that these points of the tenant protection are not very interested in the liberals is, of course, understandable, as your residential speaker is a real estate manager, and therefore this is of course difficult to reconcile. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tens of thousands of apartments are empty and do not come to the market for this rental right!]] And when the tenants come and complain about speculation practices in your homes, the Freedom Party acts very massively. Then the Bundesrat Langer, also the colleague of the National Council Schöll, appears very massively. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where does he appear?]] There are heavy accusations from the tenants, with which practices he manages his homes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where does he appear? Tell me!]] And then the clubman of the liberals also dives in the 14th century. District, Dirnberger, open. [[Abg. Scheibner: Put it on the table, don't suspect!]] But I understand the excitement on your side. Tell you very clearly what ideas you have about rental rights, how you understand tenant protection. They are in the interest of the Houselors – quote Hans Schöll – for the cancellation protection in many areas. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] They are for increased deadlines, for extensions in the interests of the legal certainty of the landlords – quote Dr. Harald Ofner. [[Abg. Scheibner:... municipal apartments!]] And you are – and above all before Your chairman, of course, – in the lower categories for a rental rate of 40 S; this affects the most socially weak, because these are the ones who live in these apartments. [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't get an apartment anymore today because they don't come to the market!]] We are currently at 8,20 S – a fivefold increase in the rent. Tell the people! It surprises me to see what chuzpe you're going out here talking about social housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3229	I call Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3254	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Living is one of the basic needs of people. According to food and clothing, living is something that moves all people, especially young people who are in the process of creating a family. And we have all experienced in recent years how difficult it has been for young people to find an affordable home. I am therefore not surprised that, in view of the forthcoming elections in Vienna, the Vienna City Councillor Faymann is taking a public interest in this issue and is trying to offer the tenants of non-profit housing cooperatives a corresponding sugar. What he has forgotten a little – so it is to be welcomed to pay fair rental prices and not to pay for an apartment two or three times – is the aspect of the generation contract, which was originally based on the non-profit cooperatives in order to provide affordable housing for the next generation and the next generation by, of course, using the accumulated funds to create new housing. Ladies and gentlemen! We will only get a living room cheaper if there is more living space. This is also a question of supply and demand, and the more housing is available on the housing market, the cheaper the rental prices will be. This is also a little to be relativized, because, of course, this does not mean that from tomorrow on rents will be reduced by the non-profit housing cooperatives, but that concerns a maximum of 45 000 dwellings, and the reductions will be made at the earliest in 2004 to 2010. I also very much welcome what Mr Michalek has announced with regard to the change in the time-limitation of the lease contracts by means of a new legal arrangement, because this also means a increase in the housing space and because it also means the possibility for tenants and landlords to come to a flexible arrangement that meets the needs of the tenant and the landlord. It is quite true that a landlord is only willing to provide his existing residence if he has a certain legal certainty, after a certain period of time, possibly or probably on his own request, to be able to access this living space or to have it available again. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it must be in all our sense to create more living space. A number of 50,000 flats a year seem realistic to me when one includes all the properties, apartments of the cooperative cooperatives and social construction. For the next generation, it must be ensured that it can establish its families and also create the appropriate foundations for a family.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3303	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3324	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few more points. I would like to relate to what has been said so far with the concept of housing ownership. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, in this area the greatest dizziness occurs in the Austrian history of the legal system, a dizziness that reveals itself every day again. If I say "swirl", then I mean that practice, as is the case with the § 14 laws of housing public utility de facto. They all heard the generous words of the Vienna Town Councillor Faymann, who meant that the time would be ripe now, now you could go to the "Mites" – under quotation marks! – reduce to categorisation in category A. This would be a significant discharge. Ladies and gentlemen! It can only be a campaign gag, a cheap electoral gag, and nothing else! If one analyzes the essence of the cooperative housing system from the root, from the pike on, then the cooperative housing system is a co-ownership right and not just a rental relationship. But on this rental relationship, the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP are so happy to reduce the cooperative system. And I think that is fundamental! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It's a dizziness, I'll stay with you. There are 750 000 so-called cooperative tenants – with the word "cooperative tenants" already bothering me –, 750 000 persons affected in 400,000 apartments. [[Abg. Eder: Who's bothering?]] I am disturbed by this, Mr President, because the term "myster" excludes any kind of property right. What you are doing at the SPÖ – and also at the ÖVP; I don't want to take you out! – that’s a flaw of the so-called tenant. Every day, you promise a new one with your party book economy, which you have been running for 30, 40 years, "sugars", knowing that the sugars are getting thinner and that there is nothing to sell in this sector. That is my answer, Mr Eder. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The political brilliance in this matter is great, because now we are approaching the time when, after 25, 30 years, most of these apartments are financed. And because this coincides by chance with the Vienna elections, you now go on and forgive generous election gifts. There is something more to this dizziness, another aspect, which is why the need for action is in fact very great. Most of the housing owners of the so-called cooperatives are not constructed in the form of cooperatives, but are stock companies or GesmbHs in which the comrade, the cooperative tenant, so to speak, has no rights. It happens in this sector exactly the same as in the "consumer". And where the "consumer", this great cooperative, has led, we all know this from a sad experience for Austria! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the two major parties have presented themselves, it will certainly not be able to continue in the housing sector. In fact, we need real reform approaches that have to go to the root. Mr Schöll! Because this problem goes deeper than it can be formulated in a resolution, we believe that this must be discussed and discussed in detail in an overall programme. It is therefore necessary to discuss this matter in committee. We call on all the parties in this House to participate constructively in this. Our willingness to do more for large-scale housing property formation, so that the "little" also has the opportunity to buy his own living space cheaply, will not fail. We offer our constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3377	I call Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3399	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The title of the current hour is: "The non-social impact of rent policy in Austria", with the most important word for me being the word "unsocial", the non-social impact. Ladies and gentlemen! When in April 1991 a parliamentary survey aimed at creating a comprehensive federal housing law was held, not in the survey, but subsequently, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky, he – well aware, in 1991! – a remarkable set of words, recorded in the Minutes, which should be repeated – especially when it comes to the non-social impact of rent policy in Austria. He said, It is about securing a decent life and existence for the people who live in our country, that is, for all in reality, for those who, by whatever circumstances, are limited in their power to others, and who are considered to be the maximum: Achievability of apartments by means of rent limits, security by means of termination protection, social availability of sustainable dwellings, elimination of quantitative deficiencies by expanding supply and resolving quality deficiencies by modernising the old stock. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The German Chancellor has hardly spoken such correct words on the subject of housing policy and residence law in Austria for a second time, as was the case in April 1991 at the time. However, he will not like what we are now faced with, especially with the effects of the rental law reform, if I take the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in his words from 1991. He will not like these effects because Greens or oppositionists criticize them, but because even and above all the Chamber of Labour, which might not be so unpleasant to him here, has done so massively already last year. President Hostasch has clearly stated that rents are stagnating at too high a level, that the objective set here at the 1991 survey has not been achieved, that protection against dismissal will continue to be avoided, and that the Chamber of Labour in its studies - especially when taking a brief look at the annoncene market - has quite clear results. It has said that it is far too expensive and far too risky for a tenant to be checked, for example, the height of the rent, and that this system, which Mr Federal Minister said at the time in the Subcommittee on Housing Rights and also in the plenary, has always noted the shortcomings of the regulations, that this impenetrable system has not had a positive effect on the citizen and the citizen, where we should, by the laws, try primarily to act for the benefit of the people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that it is the demands of the Chamber of Labour that I am making here is to show you that not only is the opposition criticizing here, but the housing law has not taken the form of the law on housing rights as it has been imagined. We can stress here again and again, we have to build apartments and we have to have a market where we have to have quiet apartments, as Mrs Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat said before, but please also act, instead of repeating them in beautiful words always and again. Last, dear. Ladies and gentlemen: One of my previous speakers, Mr Schöll, is a very special "specialist" when it comes to the social aspects of living in Austria. As far as his own interests are concerned, he is so "social" that he buys a palace of 38 million and sells it a few years later by 200 million! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3437	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3452	He himself said at a parliamentary meeting last year that this was only possible because he succeeded in making the object mine-free in the meantime.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3482	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3497	If such a person here speaks of "social rental policy", then that can only be a pang!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3527	The next speaker was Mr Graf. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3549	Mr President. High house! The previous speaker once again showed that nothing has been learned from the past. Here an objectively bad law is made, and one shifts to the Black Peter in the real estate sector and forgets that there are quite different situations of interest in this country, which are actually due to the fact that there is a misconception. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The right of residence in Austria is seen as a power-political playing field of red and black, and the impression arises that our friends of red and black are not about the creation of the living space, but only about safeguarding the spheres of influence. I have the impression that there is obviously a Marxist-Social housing policy here, because one only manages the lack on the basis of the party book and protectionism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Our demands that the rents be reduced for completed annuities are already accompanied by Mayor Häupl. His comrades here in the high house are not yet so far. You'll probably learn about it sometime. Steter drop hollows the stone. I am sure that this request of the liberals will be implemented soon. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An example of what this policy of power looks like: Mrs Bures! They have provided a parade example of this and have attracted the issue of mutual benefit in particular. Let us take the socialist settlement union in Vienna-Donaustadt, from where I come from, which manages 5,000 housing units, as an example. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr Edler! What to do You even here? – According to an advertisement, you are in the Danube Centre at the Town Union, where – as always – you have no influence on housing policy, where politics should stay outside. Here it is highly advertised: Mr. Edler should be there. – After this debate They're going anyway; You're pretty dressed, too. It is true that for a year and a half, there have been conditions that are irresponsible. The elected officials of the settlement union, in order to have the right to speak and to apply at the meetings of the cooperative, must obtain their right of speech with the executive and with interlocutory orders. So far we have come in 1995! Ask lawyer Dr. Zanger. He's a friend of your Federal Chancellor. In fact, Dr. Zanger has achieved this, he is also a victim of this settlement union. There's something else going on there: There, members of the board and their families have torn down up to six non-profit apartments and settlement houses under the nail. And Obmann Kufner is controlled by his son, who is in the Supervisory Board. You have to know all of this! The political secretary Nowak will be installed there with 60,000 s of monthly reference, and as an addition she will still receive – without ever having been on a waiting list; in fact, her husband will get it – a settlement house from this "non-profit" settlement union. – There is the rabbit in the pepper! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bures and Mr Edler.]] Members of the National Council a. D., Landtags-, municipal councillors, district politicians are acting on the Board of Directors and on the Supervisory Board. There the power-political structures are laid! Land purchases are financed by loans granted by BAWAG, with an interest rate of 18 percent. In times like this, in 1993, where the market-compliant interest rate was 6.25 percent for mortgage loans, there were 18 percent interest there – to be read in the public book. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 18 percent interest at BAWAG?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Here's Edler!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and to the Freeman.]] You only need to look at the deposit order documents and credit contracts there. That's what you need to look at! [[Further calls.]] The settlement union is putting sand in the eyes of the people! On my charge that inadequate interest is required, was published in press services of 21st century. It is even claimed that the estate in the stocked area – which concerns it in Vienna-Donaustadt – has been financed by own resources. – The book extract and reality show something quite different. As that is to be said, Mr Edler, you will certainly tell the people in the Danube Centre today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, as your Annonce announces. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm not logged in, I don't need that. I am not going to rent sharks the way you can handle it and where you and your comrades can then pay the rent interest over Gagen from behind. - I'm not doing that. I move on to the free market because I trust the real estate industry and not the public. That's my strength. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is just one of the aspects that make it urgently necessary to amend the housing law in the interests of people seeking housing. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3671	No further words are available. This concludes today's current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3695	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on written notices to all Members of the House. (A) Negotiations received: Question Answer: 4/AB. (b) allocations at this meeting: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs: Question No 103/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Peterand comrades concerning a federal law amending the holiday law; Justice Committee: Company Law Change Act - EU-REVELATION (32 of Supplements), Law on criminal law 1996 (33 of the Supplements), Question No 100/A (E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning the amendment of the Atomic Liability Act, Amendment 107/A (E) by Mr Hans Schöll and Mr Comrades on the framework conditions for the Makler Act; Environment Committee: Question No 102/A by Mr Mag. Thomas Barmüllerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 1993; Constitutional Committee: Amendment No 101/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Helmut Peterand comrades concerning contract law and civil servants' service law, Request 104/A by Mr Edith Halle Rund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Civil Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Pension Law 1965, the Land Teacher Service Law 1984 and the Land Teacher Law 1985, Amendment 105/A by Mr Mag. Johann-Ewald Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law which amends the contract law, the civil servants' service law 1979, the salary law 1956, the Richterdienstsgesetz, the Landeslehrer-Diensetz 1984 and the Landeslehrer-Servicegesetz 1985, Question No 106/A by Mr Mag. Johann-Ewald Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Civil Service Service Law 1979 (BG 1979), the Landeslehrer-Denstrechtsgesetz (LDG 1984) and the Landeslehrerungsgesetz 1985 (LLDG 1985), Question No 108/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning a federal law amending the party law; Transport Committee: Federal Act amending the High Performance Tracking Act (39 of the Supplements); Economic and Social Committee: Chemical Weapons Convention Enforcement Act - CWKG (36 of Supplements), Washington Convention on the Protection of Species - Enforcement Act; WA Enforcement Act (37 of Supplements), Notification Act - NotifG (38 of the Supplements), Federal Act amending the Patent Act 1970 and the Patent Contract Introduction Act (43 of the Supplements). Notice of urgent questions
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3844	Members of the Scheibner and Comrades have called for urgent consideration of the written question 182/J by Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues to the Minister of State for Defence concerning shortcomings in Austrian security policy, which was put into the agenda before the entry into force. In addition, Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades requested urgent consideration of the written question 183/J by Mr Anschober and colleagues to Mr Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning chaotic conditions in the electricity industry, which was also put into the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Since both desires are aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, I do so in accordance with § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, beginning with urgent questions at 4 p.m. The urgent questions will be called in the order in which I have listed them, i.e. taking account of the strength of the political groups. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3877	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 and 5 and 6 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3898	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates on today's agenda was reached at the Presidential Conference as follows: For the joint debate on points 1 and 2 and for the debate on item 4, a speaking time of ten minutes per speaker is to be set, each speaking person having a speaking time of 20 minutes. The debate on item 3 is to be limited to two hours in Vienna, so that the following speeches can be made: SPÖ 30, ÖVP 28, Freeman 26, Liberal Forum 18 and Green 18 minutes. It was also proposed that in the joint debate on points 5 and 6 a maximum of three speakers per group should speak at a speaking time of ten minutes each, with one speaker of each group having a speaking time of 20 minutes. A maximum of two speakers per group have been agreed for the debate on item 7 and the speaking time for one speaker should be ten minutes and for the other five minutes. On item 8, a maximum of two speakers are to be spoken per group, one speaker having a speaking time of 15 minutes and the other with a speaking time of 10 minutes. You have heard these proposals, are there any objections? – This is not the case, then it is unanimously approved and decided in this form. 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (9 of the Supplements): Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (41 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (10 of the Supplements): Protocol No 2 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (42 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3959	This brings us to points 1 and 2 of today's agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (9 of the Supplements): Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (41 of Supplements) and Protocol No. 2 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture (42 of the Supplements). Mrs Huber is rapporteur on both points. I can ask them to initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e3983	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I report on the Government template (9 of the supplements): Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment. At its meeting on 6 October, the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights adopted this State Treaty. Negotiating in February 1996 and adopting the Protocol unanimously. As a result of its opinion, the Committee on Justice therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (9 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. I also report on the Government paper (10 of the supplements): Protocol No 2 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment. This State Treaty was also adopted at the meeting on 6 June. Negotiating and unanimously adopted on 1 February 1996. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Justice therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol No 2 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (10 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4029	Thank you, rapporteur. – I can remind you again: The speaking time for this debate is in principle 10 minutes, with 20 minutes for the first speaker. The number of words is not so small. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann. I suppose the speaking time is 20 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm probably not gonna need the 20 minutes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] When I spoke to a colleague yesterday about today's agenda, she asked me: Why do we actually have these minutes first of all on the agenda? It's not that important, actually! Why do we have this in such a prominent position? Ladies and gentlemen! This statement can be a very sad one on the one hand, but on the other hand one can be glad about it. It can therefore be a sad vote because it can happen to someone who has not meant evil, to consider such a subject as not important, a matter which is at least a matter of the greatest violation of human dignity, torture, in additional protocols to the European Convention, and thus an extension of the scope. On the other hand, as an Austrian, we can be glad that, obviously in our country, the need for this so-called torture convention will not be realized at all, because, as Austrians, we are lucky not to be personally affected by it or not to be in danger in our home country, to take advantage of the protection and possibilities of this European Convention and, for example, as a prisoner, to need help from the personalities who are working on this committee on behalf of this Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of 1987, exactly on 26 June 1987. November, this European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment has been signed in Strasbourg; we call it the Convention on Torture. It has introduced mechanisms that can bring aid to people in their home countries in the widest possible form. This Convention has been one of the Council of Europe and is still one of its conceptions. That is to say, members of this Convention have, of course, only been able to be Member States of the Council of Europe. Now these two additional protocols, which are available for adoption today, have provided the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, for States which are not members of the Council of Europe to join and be able to send members to the Committee and for the possibility of the Convention to be extended to those non-European countries, which are not members of the Council of Europe. This promise of mine is also due to the fact that we are now in a very slow situation... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] I've got 20 minutes. I've been able to talk about this topic for seven or eight minutes. So much time must have been given on this issue. In addition, I say that as one who usually speaks in judicial debates, we and the Minister of Justice are normally able to get to it sometime at midnight or after midnight, where everyone says it's short, it's already that late. If we're early, don't let's go again... [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: He didn't say that! He said the opposite!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Willi, don't get hurt!]] I am not going to let myself be hurt, but I will once again explain to my colleague, Mrs Frischenschlager, to the effect that my colleagues will not be able to stop. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. Almost all European countries are already members of the Council of Europe. Now you could ask: What will we then have to create at all an opportunity for non-member countries to join, or for what has this possibility ever been created? I believe that there is a very interesting approach to European democracies, which have found the common roof in the Council of Europe, that it is also possible to invite States that can never become members of the Council of Europe and can nevertheless join this Convention as non-European States. Examples of this are the United States and Israel, which are in cooperation with the Council of Europe, but also others. This, ladies and gentlemen, is another step that has been taken internationally and can continue to be taken in the future, namely pressure, moral pressure – I say that quite soberly, because real pressure cannot be exerted in any other way – by inviting States to join and then subject themselves to this agreement. This is, I believe, a very important and very good thing, and I am very glad that Austria will now ratify these protocols. We're not under the first, but we're in the front. Peter Schieder, you shake the head – I know we're already relatively late, but it's not so many before us yet, and I think it's very important that we don't go after that and the last or last ones. That is why I am very pleased that we are going to decide unanimously today. To Protocol No 2 I can take a very short look. It is essentially a provision of content which allows the choice of committee members to be re-elected twice. A term of office shall be four years, i.e. by virtue of these provisions, it may be that a member of the Committee shall exercise this function for twelve years. I believe that this is not bad, because it produces a certain continuity of those who act, and I therefore believe that it is very correct, very important and very good for this Austrian Parliament – and also with regard to our reputation in the Council of Europe – that we will decide unanimously today on these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4124	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Schwimmer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4146	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Like Mr Fuhrmann, I am very glad that these two protocols are now on the agenda of the National Council. The Convention of the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment is one of the strong and effective instruments of the Council of Europe in addition to the Convention on Human Rights. I add: I hope that these instruments will include, for example, the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities or the Charter on Minority Languages and, as soon as the work is completed, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in the Application of Bioethics. Why do I emphasize that so much? – Because it has just taken a very important hour for the Council of Europe. It started today at 11.30 a.m. in Strasbourg the solemn ceremony for the inclusion of the Russian Federation in the Council of Europe. I admit, I'd almost be better there than here. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Strike the "almost", be honest!]] I admit, but I would also like to take the opportunity to mention this at this point, because this is a very important step for the Council of Europe with very large consequences if the Russian Federation is joined by the previous 38 Member States, with 150 million citizens, with a territory ranging from the Baltic Sea to Vladivostok, and the legal instruments of the Council of Europe – the Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and other Councils of Europe – are now to be equally effective. If many people and citizens of our country today have confusion over the European institutions and it is difficult to distinguish, what is the European Union on the one hand and the Council of Europe on the other, and especially the members of the Austrian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are asked by colleagues: How was it in Brussels?, not knowing that the Council of Europe has its seat in Strasbourg, then it may sometimes be necessary to talk about the importance of the Council of Europe for the Council of Europe to retain its importance in the process of European integration, that is, in addition to the European Union. In particular, the Council of Europe has two main objectives – I do not want to treat the other objectives as inferior –: respect for human rights with the protection of human rights and the individual right to turn to a European institution – European institutions are still human rights commission and human rights courts – when human rights have been violated, and the second priority is cultural cooperation at the pan-European level, which is beyond the 15 Member States of the Union, but also the strengthening of local self-government. With the inclusion of the Russian Federation, the Council of Europe will have an even greater importance in European cooperation and European integration, and I also do not want to hide – I also said this in a debate in Strasbourg in the Parliamentary Assembly – that no one has easily taken the decision as to how to vote in the reception of the Russian Federation. I am very glad that the Austrian delegation has voted for the inclusion of the Russian Federation in the Council of Europe. But it is also clear to us – and this will also concern the scope of the torture agreement – that there is still much work for both the Council of Europe and Russia, especially with regard to the standards of the Council of Europe, in particular with regard to respect to respect for human rights in this large area, which unfortunately has very little democratic tradition, whose population and authorities are insecure and still lack of exercise with the handling of legal instruments. So there is a lot of work ahead of us, and this is a very big challenge for the Council of Europe. I also said in the debate on Russia's reception: Russia is undoubtedly a great geopolitical power, but in the Council of Europe, it will be a great power through respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. But we should accept this challenge – including Austria as a very active and essential member of the Council of Europe – and we should do our job, especially with the new Member States. Austria enjoys great reputation here and is intended to help the Central and Eastern European new member states of the Council of Europe to implement the rule of law and human rights. The European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment is governed by Protocols No. 1 and 2 improved. I have nothing to add to the comments made by Mr Fuhrmann. Of course, we agree with the two protocols. I would like to wish the new member of the Council of Europe, the Russian Federation, who is now solemnly elected, good cooperation and a good future in the common house of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4183	Mrs Höbinger-Lehrer. - Here you go. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4205	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure I won't let you with that, so I think I'll stop for 20 minutes, not even at 10 minutes. I am in a happy position to say, of course, that we too, as in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, will, of course, be in full agreement with the two additional protocols. I believe that the fight against torture and inhumane treatment has a very long and blessed tradition in the Western states at least. Austria has repeatedly spoken against torture and inhumane treatment in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the UN-Folter Convention. As Mr Fuhrmann has already said, the plenary session of the House was held on 28 October. November 1988 ratified the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and so on – it has already been discussed several times today. The Member States of the Council of Europe already adopted it on 26 March. It was signed in November 1987. The Committee of Experts, which is a central part of this Convention, should have the opportunity to control the treatment of prisoners at any time and in any place in the Contracting State. However, it has not been possible for the Commission, for reasons of national defence and public security – thank God, to carry something like this in Austria – to be able to visit these places, unfortunately. It should be possible, within the framework of all of these UN facilities, which Mr Schwimmer has referred to, to insist once again that this situation is being improved and that the prisons or camps can be controlled without reservation, because it is only possible to do so. If we are now looking at extending the functioning institutions of the Council of Europe to non-member countries, I must say that although welcome, the reception of Russia is a little unpleasant, because I believe that it will not be possible in all the states of the Russian Federation to approach prisoners as in the Western European countries. There was a report on this in the press, I think, on 19 February. February. At that time I became aware for the first time – but that does not mean anything – that the Russian Federation is now also joining as a non-Member State. In the "Presse" a rather polemic report was printed by a Chechen who complained about how easy and from what vain occasion one can get into the catch of Russian justice and how difficult it is to withdraw from torture camps – I think he has called it so. So I hope that Austria will also have the opportunity, especially in these matters, to raise at least awareness in the now acceding non-member countries. However, I am still entitled to a small amount of torture which the Ministry provided to us in 1989 – the Minister of Foreign Affairs was not yet ministers at the time – in order to comply with all these conventions at the Public Prosecutor's Office. By this decree we had to follow every slightest direction of a prisoner who claimed that he had been mistreated or not treated well in any way, through judicial surveys. That is perfectly correct, but we had done so without this instruction, only obviously we believed that perhaps we could act in some way outrageously, and therefore gave us very precise guidelines and instructions. As I said, it was not the Minister, but his predecessor, and we did so. Only the Vienna Procuratorate's Perception Report from 1994 – 1995 said that it was even better, as the competent prosecutor Dr. Kellner told me, to give me the following picture: At the time, in 1994, in the field of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna – I can only speak for him, of course, but it is Austria's largest criminal court – 59 allegations of abuse against the institutions of the security authority, which is at least a distinct number, have not been made in court. There were even more ads in the district courts, 231 of which seven led to applications for punishment and one led to a conditional fine. Well-marked: Every accusation must be taken into account, but one should not go over to believing now that in Austria the security guard or the executive or the enforcement authorities and their officials have in any way a desire to act abusively against the prisoners. I believe that one should be removed from these accusations, which have not been raised in the House, but already in the media, in which it has already – I believe, it has come from the Greens – given an attack on the security guard, removed and seen the positive sides. In this sense, I would like to congratulate these two additional protocols on behalf of my group on their success with the non-member countries. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4266	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4287	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think we can make it easy if we all talk about the importance of this agreement. Everyone speaks of it, of course, we have to stand up for action against torture, against inhumane and degrading treatment. Of course, the FPÖ says that these agreements will therefore also have their approval. We are promising what is wonderful in our lives, and we must therefore try to get as many countries as possible to get them all to the same level. This shows me how little worth such things are if one does not agree before on the definition of the term, if one does not think beforehand about what, even according to our concepts, means by our democratic concepts, inhuman or degrading treatment. I can only say: "No to!" This is certainly a matter of course. I'm saying this for our house. Inhuman and degrading treatment will look different. There will probably be very different definitions here. For me, the seriousness of such papers depends on how then the actions that are put in place to do so. It is very easy to say in protest notes that Saro-Wiwa is being killed in Nigeria by a death sentence, I say now. On the other hand, one can protest about it, one can call it an inhumanity. But no one is acting against the fact that, in such a situation, the Boulevard press simply treats Nigerians in Austria as a drug dealer. I see a connection here with the fact that in 1995, for example, we recognized only three political refugees from Nigeria as political refugees, but not 177. There are links. I wonder, How serious are we then with the assessment that we have to do with the recognition of these people as refugees? We read about a Tamil whose asylum application was rejected. He committed suicide at the end of January in Austria. We read about an Iraqi who claims to be politically persecuted here, because, according to Amnesty International, he had been detained and tortured because his brother had left the country. From us he should be moved to Jordan last week – at least the last state of my information. I couldn't verify if that actually happened after Amnesty International brought this case to the public, or not, I don't know. The fact is that these things are very easy to deal with, but we are all in agreement here, against which we must act. This is not worth it if one takes a different position at once in a conflict of interest. This conflict of interest arises from economic interests. What is our relationship with countries where human rights violations are evident, but our economic interests are naturally to be preserved? Why, for example, does one of the largest economic delegations go to China at any time? I am not saying now that we should stop contact – that would be nonsense, that would also be a nonsense for economic policy – but it is probably a question of feeling, at what time, at what scale and how to do such things. I am therefore also talking about our links with Iran and with countries to Turkey where human rights violations are on the agenda. What does it look like when a conflict of interest occurs, with the so-called efficiency of bureaucracy? – The concept of bureaucratic dehumanization has become a feature, unfortunately not only in Austria, but in many countries. We are in some cases even a pioneer when I look at our right to asylum. There's always one looking at the other and saying, That is why it is legitimate! – We are increasing the scale by which we then argue and take it as the basis. What is it like to take measures in the sense of human rights that violate a popular opinion – the key word: Catch of votes? What are our foreign laws on the protection of human rights? Who's gotten who? I still have the words of Mr. Stadler in the ear yesterday, when he said rightfully: The only thing he likes about the entire savings package is that the government is finally ready for people who live here but do not have Austrian citizenship to pay family allowances when their children live abroad. – In other words, someone has to pay the same charges as his colleague, who is Austrian by chance, both of them have children who are studying abroad. The national receives the family allowance and the foreigner does not receive it. What do we mean by fundamental rights, by human rights? What's going on? Is it only about the torture we face, or is it not much more to work out here, and especially to work out for our consciousness? I think that this is very cheap if we make ourselves and sign all the great things in which the title still contains terms that are very different in this House. Then, of course, it's easy when everyone agrees. That's what I want to bring in. Of course, we will also agree, but at least I would also like to make it clear what rethinking needs are available. Mr Höbinger-Lehrer! What did she say here? – How terrible it is to put something under the security guard again, and may you distance yourself from it – that is what they have literally said – and yet see the positive. The same is true of human rights violations that people in other countries also tell you whether they are Turkish, Chinese or otherwise. That is a different measure, of course. But they say: See the positive with us, too. – This cannot be the right access to these things, even if – and this is related to unworthy and humiliating treatment – the 1994 report by Amnesty International shows that there are abuses by the police in us, in foreigners in charge, and that these are not individual cases. Now I already know – I've worked long enough in a public prosecutor's office, where I've just been confronted with these cases – how difficult it is to weigh what's actually susceptible to complaint and what's going on in a grey zone. But if even the European Commission on Human Rights in June 1994 considered that an Austrian citizen had been subjected to physical violence in a manner that was a three-day prison in police custody, in a manner that the crime, namely the fact that the Convention is titled, namely the crime of inhuman and degrading treatment, is fulfilled, then we cannot produce and act as if everything were in order with us. We cannot then, above all, Mrs Colleague, say: Let's see the positive! Do not allow people to be burdened with anything forever and to go into the dirt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höbinger teacher.]] It must be of interest to recognize human rights violations already in the approach, especially in our country, otherwise we have no right to talk about the others great and superfluous and to say: It is important that even more countries join the agreement if we do not even have the willingness to be alert and sensitive in our country, where the humiliating, where inhuman treatment begins. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] To date, we have not brought together any reform of the right of asylum, whoever is responsible for whether it is only the FPÖ, whether it is the FPÖ and the ÖVP, whether it is the weakness of the SPÖ – I do not care about it. The fact is that we still have no access to a fair asylum procedure is the fact that it has become practice to simply push on asylum seekers. This brings us back to bureaucratic efficiency, because we are afraid that they will otherwise be subjugated. I do not rule out the fact that this could actually happen. But how do we weigh here between hiding and humiliating treatment? – It is likely that it will be felt that if someone is taken into custody, that is more likely to come close to humiliation than to a human right. There is no one here to talk about a safety principle for the people concerned, but that is the safety for popularity, as one comes across a strangely highly stylized security need for our people. When will a change in the third country clause, which provides for a deportation to be allowed only if it is ensured that the decommissioning party in the third country to which it is transferred is actually safe from persecution? – No human has yet touched an earwash to bring about a change. In this House, years ago, an asylum law was passed which I consider to be inhuman, because it is one of the first steps towards a two-class society, namely the classes of different legal guarantees, depending on whether you are a foreigner or a foreigner. It can be postponed before the underlying decision is legal. Where's the call in this house? Who is willing to confess to a more humane course and to change these paragraphs in the Asylum Act? I therefore think it is not very serious if only beautiful words are spoken. It even goes so far that the observer says to the strongest opposition party: Then we leave the Convention on Human Rights! – APA, October 1995: If Austria is placed under the obligation of the European Convention on Human Rights in the family succession, then these provisions should be abandoned. - One thing you have to leave him: He says at least... [[Abg. Scheibner:... attach your polemics to the debate! That's incredible!]] It would be nice if you thought, colleague, because then the whole thing would make sense, but I know that you don't make much sense. [[Abg. Scheibner: You know exactly how that was then!]] I'd rather be on the tongue if I were to have a different expression. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Listen!]] If it is possible that a political group in this order will say that it is preferable to give up the provisions of a human rights convention, then we will see how far we are in the assessment of the seriousness of human rights. We have all signed them, but if we are to be taken into responsibility by this Convention on Human Rights, then we would rather get out. As long as we are not taken to duty, we will give all the nice speeches here and say: Wonderful, we've really developed further! – This is the seriousness of people who agree with any human rights conventions as long as one is not taken into responsibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You just need to read it. If you don't believe me – your party observer believes everything, so you have to look at that sentence. But it is not only about the domestic situation, it is also about dealing with countries outside, and I have not only mentioned countries such as China and Co – I say so now, that is a synonym for me from the order of magnitude. We are now in a situation where we can also do what Mr Fuhrmann described earlier with the concept of moral pressure when he meant how wonderful it is if we decide to do such things and if we involve the other countries. Furthermore, I'm right in giving him that that's right and good. But the consequence is that one would then have the opportunity to exercise moral pressure, not only to refer to this Convention, but also to an act ahead of us, namely the recognition of the rest of Yugoslavia. We know that the European Union has the idea of acknowledgment to the rest of Yugoslavia. So far, there are relatively soft formulations, which conditions should be attached to it. France has done something I think is most unfortunate. In fact, it is presupposed, so that the EU has pre-judicated or interrupted in a way and says: I am i, France first!, and has set an act to recognize the rest of Yugoslavia without any specific conditions attached to it. I've got an APA report on 27 July. According to Austria, it appears to have similar plans. Heading: "Austria is ready for full diplomatic relations with Belgrade". It says that Austria is ready to enter into full diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia and to build up and so on. There's nothing of any condition at all. Obviously – I do not know – Mr Schüssel, on the occasion of his visit to Restjugoslavia, felt that he had to leave some trace. I think this is a sad trail if it is not linked to the clear conditions that must be fulfilled for the time being. I already know that these conditions must not be too high to make it impossible to recognise them in this way. That wouldn't be all right. But to say from the outset is all right, we will recognize you, that is exactly what does not correspond to that moral pressure, which Mr Fuhrmann advises. In 1991 there were conditions which were then formulated by the EU for the recognition of Croatia, Slovenia and the successor states of the USSR. I wonder, With what reason do you go under this standard? And you are currently going – at least that is my knowledge – under this standard. It is too little for me to call for Belgrade to recognize Macedonia. I believe that, of course, all the successor countries must be recognized by Belgrade. That's our position. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But not if you go from a European standard! The recognition is not moral appreciation! We do this in membership and not in recognition! This is an essential error!]] It is precisely that we have to fight for this standard; that we do not follow and say that this is the standard and therefore we are no longer interested, we look at the smallest common denominator. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that if we recognize the rest of Yugoslavia, we should also call for respect for human rights and also for certain basic standards. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But there are 30 countries in the world who have to withdraw recognition!]] There is, moreover, an entire group in the European Parliament which is committed to doing so; perhaps they can vote with the Liberal Group rather than with the Socialists, who will work to ensure that not only the recognition of Macedonia is made a prerequisite, but also the recognition of all the successor countries. Perhaps you can talk to the Group colleagues of the Liberals there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You would better have said that to them in Turkey!]] In Turkey, I give you the right to do so. This has been a gratification; I take Turkey into the customs agreement and say that I have more option of control, or I say I am not doing that at the moment. I personally know how our Members voted. [[Abg. Arbitrator: So lala!]] Not so lala. She decided clearly in her consideration – not even – that it would be more useful for Turkey to have it from its perspective. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The Members are not, but the Group!]] I would have decided otherwise personally, I say that quite openly to you. In any event, it is a matter of course for me, and I expect the war criminal tribunal to be recognized in The Hague and, of course, a unconditional extradition of suspects accused of this tribunal. What do we have if we establish great tribunals, and then we recognize states that do not even recognize these tribunals? That is why I think it would be a matter of course to make this a fundamental condition. I also believe that we cannot talk about autonomy rights or minority rights if we do not use this as a means of printing and say: What about your majority or minority of Albanians in Kosovo, depending on your perspective? What concrete rights do they get? And what about the minority rights of the Croats and Hungary in Vojvodina, where they are not even granted those rights which have been granted until 1991? These are conditions that would be a matter of course before I recognize a state. And I have not heard anything from your group at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also think it is a need for all the UN conventions to be recognised on the succession of national associations. These are all the conditions that have been considered by the EU in the recognition of Slovenia and Croatia and the successor states of the USSR. Now I ask you why this is not possible when it comes to the rest of Yugoslavia. That is what irritates me if I hear now that Austria may not even want to wait for the EU and express recognition on its own. I say, then, that moral pressure which Mr Fuhrmann wants to exert here, you can no longer use it. So, either you mean it seriously with human rights or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4468	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4489	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The first item on the agenda of today's meeting, the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman and Humiliating Treatment or Punishment, I consider it extremely necessary, right and important, because, and now I disagree with all the previous speakers, with the exception of Dr Schmidt, these two protocols do not seem to have too much to do with Austria, because, in one case, they are only about allowing non-Member States to join the Council of Europe and, on the other hand, only about the term of office of the Committee members. Actually, not too big things. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you just take a look at how Austria acts as a member of the CPT and how seriously we in Austria are taking what this independent committee in Austria has already experienced, then this lunch hour – even if the plenary session is not too full – is really the most appropriate time to discuss it. For, ladies and gentlemen, we already know a lot about dealing with the results of this independent Commission, which came to every prison, not only in penitentiary facilities, but also in police prisons. But this story is not too pious. That is why I am pleased that Mr Dr. One is here at the moment, because he is in the happy situation of being able to agree here. In the afternoon, he might change to the government bank. He can now allow himself something he may no longer be able to do in a month: to ask himself why he does not do certain things as Minister of the Interior, but now by means of his direct mandate – preferential voting mandates – here authorizes him to represent citizens' interests and to ask questions. I would recommend him to ask himself the question why, as Minister of the Interior, he has been the latest CPT report, since 4. In May 1995 the Federal Minister for Justice and the Federal Minister for the Interior and in which there is certainly a lot of interesting things inside, concluded that he does not make this report available to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already got a biterl a suspicion why that doesn't happen. I have the suspicion that what has been said in the 1990 CPT report and what really is not praiseful for Austria should not come to the public. Then: In a sentence, the result of the Committee's visit at the time is to be interpreted in this way – and this is literally stated in this 1990 CPT report: the Council of Europe! – that there is a serious risk for prisoners in Austria to be abused during police detention. This is the sentence that can best be summarised in this report, which is quite comprehensive. In July of last year, we have also been here together and have discussed all that Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has said before me very extensively in an urgent question, where this Blanko signature scandal has been in the Vienna Police Prisoner House. The Federal Minister for the Interior was somehow particularly concerned at that time. At that time I had the impression that something really happened, there have really been measures. However, according to my information I get, and due to communications from people who occasionally have access to the pushy and the police prison in Vienna, not too much – almost I'm inclined to say nothing at all – has changed. Even if torture is a word that seems to be so strange to our Austrian vocabulary, because torture is quite drastic, torture is something at the earliest, if one has crossed the Bosporus, but not in Europe. Then, ladies and gentlemen, one is taught better by reading this 1990 CPT report. Not only is the serious risk of being abused here. In the 1990 report – and I have, as has already been said, the suspicion that the CPT report, which arose from a visit in September 1994, after all, we have already made no significant distinction from it in February 1996, is also that Austria is recommended, but finally to introduce the right to the doctor's choice. It is also confirmed that the CPT has given the impression that doctors in police prisons are limited to putting their head in the door and asking if the prisoners are in order. All of this was recorded here in 1990. Ladies and gentlemen! Since May 1995, the new report, which will be retained by the public, has been in the Ministry of the Interior. Why do I ask myself? Why do you think? In all these criticisms, perhaps in the 1990 report, Austria did not draw a summary of its own self-employment as a member of this committee and that, however, the 1990 report on which the then Minister of Justice – Dr. Michalek was not yet present, it was still his predecessor who gave the opinion in the 1990 report, Dr. Foregger – and the then Minister of the Interior, both said in agreement that it is not alone the individual misconduct of individual officials but that the CPT report contains indications of structural problems. I am still lacking the indication that one has implemented and taken seriously one's own perception of what was then, so to speak. What is reported is that of the few who have access to the pangs is really not Europe mature in the sense that they say that this has nothing to do with torture, because torture belongs to the Third World. That's how this is understood in Austria. – Torture occurs day after day in Austria, in Austrian prisons, both in judicial and police prisons. And there are those responsible for that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this, there are those responsible in the executive, namely those responsible for looking at what the individual officials are doing, and who are responsible for showing these structural problems not only through the CPT Committee, but also for drawing and implementing the corresponding conclusions. When it comes to this - I do not want to repeat everything that Mrs Dr Schmidt has said - it is the practice in Austria to take advantage of a person who is seeking refuge here and is asking for asylum, and to look at the welfare of an Austrian prisoner's house, possibly even to insist on his asylum application, if he has any opportunity to learn about how it works, then, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture, Inhuman and Humiliating Treatment. That is why I hope that we will soon hear what is going to happen here. This also applies to the Federal Minister for Justice, who has also addressed this report. I very much hope that he will not have to compete negatively with the Minister of the Interior as far as criticism is concerned. It was also a clear difference here in 1990. But he is also urgently urged to make that available to the public, which criticises European institutions if we want to take European institutions seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4545	The Federal Minister has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4567	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The additional protocols available to you for the adoption of the decision are not content but organisational in nature, but they are very visible and impressive about the extension of the work of the International Committee set up under the Convention. It states that the idea of preventive international control of the conditions of withdrawal measures of any kind has prevailed. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the development of a European standard for detention and detention conditions by a respected international body effectively complements such control facilities as they exist at national, national level, for example, in accordance with § 18 of the Austrian Criminal Enforcement Act by the establishment of enforcement committees. As mentioned today, the Committee set up under the Convention paid a second visit to Austria in the autumn of 1994 and took into account a number of detention facilities, both inside and outside the area of justice. The report, which was then adopted by the Committee and by Mrs Stoisits, was quite comprehensive and confidential after its introduction to Austria. A detailed opinion of the two sectors concerned is before completion. In the sense of the procedure followed after the Committee's first visit to Austria, it is intended to agree to the joint publication of the report and the Austrian opinions. The Committee and Austria will then agree to a publication together. Until then, he's confidential. However, I believe that the publication will be expected in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4594	The honourable Member is now on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4615	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers and, in particular, Mr Fuhrmann have already discussed both protocols in detail, I would just like to make five comments on these protocols and on the debate as a whole. First: I am glad that both protocols are now being ratified. The accession of several Eastern European States to the Convention, including Albania, Macedonia and probably also soon the Russian Federation. It is extremely important for the work to have the additional protocols in place until then, not least because a significant number of members of the Committee who have heard it from the beginning have already been re-elected and without the ratification of the Additional Protocols in about one and a half years and should be replaced by new members. I believe that the Committee has done a really fundamental job, which is mainly due to the continuity of the Members of the first hour. An entry into new countries, particularly a committee activity, including in the Russian Federation, will impose exceptional quantitative requirements, and will only be to be met if qualitatively no burden would be incurred if a substantial number of previous members were to be replaced by new members in 1997. The ratification by Austria is also of particular importance in terms of the role model for other countries to be ratified. I therefore believe that it is important that we do this today – a little late, but still. Second note. I regret that from the side of the ministry – I think, in cooperation with other ministries, whether with Switzerland or with Germany – the expression "emission" is perpetuated. Both the Committee and the Parliamentarians, who are nominated to do so, want this committee, as it is called in the document, to be referred to as a committee in the German language. He is also referred to as a committee in English and French. It is in the Council of Europe, in the non-parliamentary part of the Council of Europe, that the Committees are called those where a particular person always participates, because they have been elected or delegated, and as committees only those where each country can send someone else, but where there can be someone else at each meeting. That is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is important to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But Parliament cannot change anything in terms of content in such contracts. It depends here on the administration and can only stay bitter. I hope that one day the Committee's reason for the Committee on Nomen's will will prevail. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to expressly welcome the cooperation of the Austrian member of the Committee as Head of the Austrian delegation of the Council of Europe. I would like to point out that Prof. Dr. Rudolf Machacek, who is the Austrian member of the committee, is not only actively involved in the committee itself – I would like to say almost – but also that he was prepared to prepare Central and Eastern European states for the re-design of their legal systems to make 16 trips in the last four years in addition and under the most difficult conditions. He has made himself available there free of charge for discussions, for exchange of experience and has therefore also personally provided assistance in this process of transformation in the legal field. I would also like to thank Professor Machacek very much for his work as an Austrian member of the committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Fourth comment: It has already been brought to the attention of Russia's accession to the Council of Europe today, and I am glad that at least today we are also ratifying. For it would be an irony for us to demand – and they expressly promise – the new entrants at many conventions to ratify within a certain period of time, while the old-fashioned democracies thus leave time. I think that this would also be a reason to consider whether other outstanding ratifications by Austria would have to take place as quickly as possible, and it would also be necessary to consider whether some of the reservations we have expressed in many European Council conventions would not be withdrawn. For we are always right to judge this when it comes to reservations whether something does not fit completely into our legal order or in our practice or whether we would make some minor difficulties, and there we report a reservation, but today we also have to make a consideration of the goods and say: We demand unreserved recognition by the new states. And we demand that of them, although this is a huge effort for them to change their legal order within a short time. I believe that it would also be a matter of exemplary effect if the old-fashioned democracies – even if they sometimes had difficulties or had to say good-bye to them – were at least prepared to do what we demand from much larger countries under greater difficulties. What you don’t want you to do, to do it’s not to anyone else. – This also applies vice versa. Whatever you want from others under difficult conditions, you must also be willing to fulfill yourself. Finally, I would like to say something to Mr Schmidt, who has spoken about the recognition of states here. It is true that the recognition of a State is also a good opportunity to ask for that State to carry out its values in legal and other terms. I would remind you that, in the case of a Baltic State, in agreement with the Foreign Minister at the time, we also raised the question of minorities on the part of Parliament. I think it is right – and she is right – that such a thing should happen when it comes to recognition. But whether the recognition itself can only be understood as an instrument, as a seal of quality, or whether one should also recognize it under conditions where not everything fits, that is not only a question of evaluation, but also a question of whether one should be It makes sense not only to trade with States entirely or not, but also to admit them to communities, because they are recognized, and then to influence them in a process. And the possibilities to influence states – this has shown the experience – are usually only given when they are recognized and incorporated into certain communities, such as the United Nations. It is a question of using certain agreements as a means of printing preference rules. I am therefore in favour of not recognizing the rest of Yugoslavia as a successor to the old Yugoslavia, but as a state as quickly as possible and saying what it is expected. But I believe that this recognition will also be a step in the direction that one can influence the normalization of relations between them, which will also make a good contribution to security and positive development as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4694	The next speaker is Member Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4715	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The majority of what my previous speaker, Mr Schieder, said, is quite acceptable. However, I would like to use its final part of the problem of the recognition of Yugoslavia as a supporter in order to highlight what this debate is all about. It is a rather formal matter, but I would like to emphasise why, especially in Europe, we must not only be cautious in the enforcement of human rights and democratic and cultural states in the future, but, I believe, we must also use all the means of political enforcement. I believe that this rest Yugoslavia is a typical example of something where we have to keep two things apart. First: Of course, we cannot measure these countries – and I mean not only the rest of Yugoslavia, but also our immediate neighbours east of Austria – with the standards of democracy and right-wing politics, as in a Western European country, which has therefore five decades, half a century, a peaceful, democratic, legal development, thanks to God. We know that these countries are in transition, but I now have to say what you have said in the final analysis, in recognition of the fact that the conditions there are developing in such a way that they are roughly in line with the minimum standards of human rights and democracy policy. And a rest Yugoslavia, which treats Kosovo and the people there as it does, does not meet this standard. But here I distinguish very precisely: It's not an attack on the Serbs. I think it is deplorable to try, in this context, to put a stamp on whole peoples, but the regime is really not worth it in this state of political development, to be actually recognized. That is the crucial point. And it would have had no meaning and no justification for the UN sanctions if we were not to insist quite clearly on these minimum standards even now when it comes to recognition. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is it worth the regime in Iraq? In Chile, was it worth the regime? In South Africa, has the regime been worth it for decades?]] I'm right about Mr Arbitter. The problem is the reverse act, the rejection of recognition, much, much more dramatic, but, of course, the democratic family of Europe must make optimum use of this option of influence – not only in order to help people in Vojvodina and especially in Kosovo, but also to prevent an outbreak of violence. We must not overlook that! But I also believe that if we can do something in this process of recognition, if we can influence it, we should do it too, and that is why some people think that early French recognition and possible tendencies are wrong in us. This is where the Europe that has been collected must have its influence in order to prevent the worst. I think it was important that we debate it in this part of your speech. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not now have much time to deal with the real issue, but I would like to continue in the sense that I have now started: We are pleased to see the extension of the number of members of the Council of Europe, the extension of the Conventions, and that is why we also regard today's proposals as something positive. This should be a twofold cause for us to be careful. First of all: We do not need to put ourselves on the high ground in Western Europe. There is still enough here to deal with dangerous, negative, anti-human developments. That we must do this in the most difficult form of the rule of law is also clear – and then there is a lot of criticism, for example in the asylum area et cetera. I am not going into that now, but I would just like to say something to our new friends. The same applies, of course, to the standards of democracy policy, and I think it is right for us as the Austrian Republic to exercise our foreign policy influence here too, in order to prevent misdevelopments and to accelerate democratically positive developments. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I mention two examples. . It has been unbearable for me that the Slovak powergiver has tried to take them back to 15 elected Members who had been elected in an election which the Supreme Court of Slovakia has recognized as correct. This is not a European standard, and we should say that clearly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And I mention a second example, an example just from these days: If, after a municipal election in Zagreb, the President of Croatia has left his party under one third of the votes and therefore the other or most of the other groups elect a mayor by a democratic majority and prevent the recognition of this election if he wants to impose a follower of his party in the evil government of the capital, this is not a European standard, and we should also say it to them! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We should not say it out of arrogance to them, but because we should help these countries, which have not been able to have democratic development for decades, to speed up the process towards a human rights-related democratic culture, to make it clear to them that we are watching it very closely – and we must also be pleased to see that, if, for example, there are negative developments in human rights issues, we are being criticized by foreign countries. Then we don't have to say: This is our own matter, since we do not want to be three-way, take care of your own filth!, no, then we have to take note of this in our European democratic culture and people and nation-state family. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This was the great progress made by the Convention on Human Rights: After the Second World War, we managed to put human rights over sovereignty and thus open the way for the Community of States to move over sovereignty into our case law. This is a great progress towards a positive European development, which I would like to see put into a European constitution. This concludes with the following: The two templates are progress. We have to be careful so that we do not experience any setbacks, and we have everything to do so that this continent can build its inner peace, based on human rights and democratic order. That must be our goal! The two proposals we therefore agree with serve this purpose with joy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4789	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. We therefore proceed to the votes. I may ask you to take the seats. I note the necessary quota for simple-legislative decision-making. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty Protocol 1 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (9 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to demonstrate this by raising their seats. – This is unanimously adopted by the National Council. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty Protocol No 2 to the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (10 of the Supplements). I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to give an appropriate sign. – This too has been unanimously decided. This brings about the completion of item 1 and item 2 of today's agenda. 3rd. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (3 of the Supplements): Copyright law Novelle 1996 – UrhG-Nov. 1996 (40 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4854	We'll get to 3. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. This is the report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (3 of the Supplements): Copyright law Novelle 1996 (40 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mr Schrefel. He will initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4874	Mr President. High house! I report on the government template (3 of the supplements): The Federal Act amending the Copyright Act and the Novelle Copyright Act 1980. At its meeting on 6 October, the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights adopted the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States In the vote, the draft law took account of the amendments tabled by Dr. Walter Schwimmerand Dr. Willi Fuhrmann as well as by Dr. Walter Schwimmer, Dr. Michael Krüger, Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtund Mag. Terezija Stoisitswith changing majority voting. I would also like to report on a print error correction: In Art. 3 para. There is a lack of pressure on the draft legislation annexed to the Committee's report. The quotation: "Articles I 16, 22 and 24" are correct: "Art. I points 16, 21 and 24". As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Justice requests that the National Council give the draft Constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the Committee's report. I would ask you, Mr President, to continue the debate in case there are any statements of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4931	I would like to thank the rapporteur. For the debate, the following fractional general speaking times were set: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberals and Greens each 18 minutes. The first speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e4958	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already deposited in committee that it is never too late for the performance of homework. In this sense, we have in principle welcomed the fact that the Novelle Copyright Act was finally discussed in the Committee and passed on to the Assembly for the vote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am saying this about the performance of the homework because there has been a considerable delay in the law. I would remind you that already in the Declaration of Government of the XVIII. Legislative period agreed that copyright is to be adapted in a timely manner. In 1994, at the end of the legislative period, the Novelle Copyright Act was finally to be adopted in the Committee and sent to the National Council for the vote. At the time, however, there was a blockade, a blockade because the various stakeholders, but also the ORF as a producer, could not agree with the filmmakers on the division of remuneration claims. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind you that the Copyright Act provides for a presumption of law in the film works, which means that, regardless of copyright production, all rights of exploitation come to the producer. Therefore, for a very long time, it has been a legitimate concern of the film-makers that, in view of the remuneration claims after the empty-case remuneration and cable television, a change is taking place in favour of the film-making place. We are pleased to note that there has finally been an amendment here. As a cultural speaker, I also see it as my task, Mr Cap, to work for the filmmakers, for the film owners. Unfortunately, God’s reward for film-makers was blocked for years by the ORF, but also by the great coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! There has then been an agreement. There is now a 50-to-50 division with regard to the remuneration claims according to the empty-case remuneration and after cable television. However, there is still this legal presumption that all rights of exploitation are granted to the producer. Now, as I think it is right, the film-makers are on the point of view that the remuneration, the empty cassettes and cables are not at all a case of this presumption of law, because the law says that the rights of exploitation are to the film producers; on the other hand, the claims for compensation are not the case. From this point of view, from the point of view of the film-makers, it was only too understandable that the film-makers had spoken of expropriation, which was the result of these remuneration claims, and that, in the end, there was no satisfaction with this division among film-makers. But especially for this reason, there is no satisfaction with the filmmakers, because they are the authors of a film work. This is also clear and clearly stated here. Well, the producer has the economic risk, but it's the directors, it's the Cutter, the Dialogue Directors and so on, who carry the authorship. Consensus, which was finally reached, is therefore unsatisfactory because it does not concern the old films or only insufficiently. I should like to remind you that it was originally planned that film-makers should also be involved in the remuneration claims concerning the old films of 50 to 50 percent with the film producers. But then the Austrian radio has introduced its veto and only wanted a regulation pro futuro, i.e. only for new films. Finally, a regulation has been adopted in the form of no remuneration at all for the films filmed before 1970, and for the films that were filmed between 1970 and 1. 4. In 1996, a reasonable remuneration is provided for. Well, we see this as an insufficient compromise, because it is partly a expropriation of the authorship of the film-makers, who are supposed to benefit from these new remuneration claims. For, ladies and gentlemen, one could naturally object: In 1970, the producer of film carried this economic risk, and why should the film-makers now be distributed accordingly? But I would remind you that, in accordance with our copyright law and under the law, it is not so long ago that there is a cable remuneration at all, and therefore it would only be right and cheap from our point of view if the filmmakers, the film owners, were also involved in the old films. Thus, ladies and gentlemen – but the ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition have to answer – this delay has resulted in enormous damage to the film-makers. I would remind you that 30 million Schillings were taken each year from this remuneration already mentioned several times, which only the producers have received. That is, if you use this 50 to 50 division, 15 million schilling have been missed each year by the film maker through this delay. Ladies and gentlemen! That was also the reason why in the past legislative period – I think it was in June – we made a corresponding deadline request. It was really no longer to be seen that the filmmakers should continue to abandon their due tantimes. Ladies and gentlemen! Although this division is a compromise control in the final effect, but it benefits the film-makers, one thing must be noted: The text of the law contains the passage that this division takes place only if nothing else is agreed. One can now assume from the imbalance, the professionalism of the producers and the imbalance with the professions who are creative in the production of a film work that genuine partnership does not exist, because, of course, the film producers are far superior to the film-makers in professionalism, business ability, order conditions, contract and commitment conditions. That is why I would consider it – that is my personal opinion – to be good if you consider this right – that is not the claim of honour in the film contract, but only the claims of compensation – to be normative, because you can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the film manufacturers will, of course, change their general terms of order soon, so that the film-makers will not be able to do anything, unless they are really well-known directors. We liberals, or at least part of the liberals, may I say, therefore take the view that this 50-to-50-regulatory right should be mandatory. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of translations and the editing of film works, the position of the authors has worsened. This must also be said clearly and clearly, because the copyright law novelle is sold by red and black under the pre-text of an improvement in the legal status of the film owners, and there are certainly provisions which do not only mean better creation, but even deterioration. And that's what the translations are all about. Here it is added that the film owners are no longer to be asked in the editing of films and in the translations, and these translation rights should then only be given to the film producers. I have already commented on the transitional provisions. We liberals have already tabled an amendment to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in order to include old films in this remuneration in favour of film-makers, and we will also be tabling an amendment here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there is now a very different problem at the centre of public interest than that of film-makers, namely the problem of so-called copy tax. According to the amendment of the Copyright Act, a so-called copy tax is to be lifted, i.e. the completeness of which is to say that it is not a tax in the sense of tax collection of the federal or state, but a compensation which is intended to benefit the authors. And, ladies and gentlemen, how to turn it and turn it, it doesn't matter: It is clear that this copy tax – whether called the reprography fee or copy tax now – entails a further, very serious burden on the economy. It is even a double tax provided for in this law, and that is quite easy to reject. We have a completely different system remuneration here. So every manufacturer of copiers who sells copiers on the market has to pay a corresponding charge. Of course, this charge is charged at the prices of the copying equipment. As the initial calculations have already shown, it is expected that when the novels are adopted in this form, all of them – please – will become more expensive by 10 percent. And I'm wondering, Where is the representation of the economy in the Austrian People's Party, which can agree to such a scheme? I understand, of course, the authors who want to know their rights. But, please, this regulation is indifferent because it affects all copying devices, no matter who makes use of these copying devices. Whether it is a trader who never intends to copy any works of authors subject to copyright, or whether it is a shopping partnership or a professional profession, no matter what, everyone has indiscriminately here to pay a tax or indirectly to pay the increase in the sales price. I therefore believe that a further burden is imposed on the Austrian economy. I am of the opinion that it would be counterproductive, especially in difficult times, if one were to undifferentify the economy – well aware: undifferentiated – whether copyrights are misused here or not, to consider formal and dogmatically with a tax, with a device remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen! But we liberals are also against the copy tax for another reason. This bill, this wording of the provision of § 42b of the Copyright Law Novelle, is practically 1 to 1 written out from Germany; one could now say, in order to support here the duplication of the events, has been copied. So there is a copy of the German legal situation here to tax the manufacturer of copiers, but also the economy, which lives partly from the copiers and uses them, unilaterally. The fact that the writing down of laws, which are already eight or nine years old, is not always good is also evidenced by the fact that it is subject to a closer review, namely because, although the copyiers are covered, the new technologies are not. For one cannot compare with the knowledge of the year 1996 and today's technology a situation with a situation of interest in 1985 when computers, screens, CD-ROMs and printers who have copied did not yet exist to this extent and this problem was not yet relevant. I therefore note that the same situation would be dealt with differently. Only the copying devices would be discriminated against, but the reproductions by computer screens, CD-ROMs and printers would remain unscathed here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this is not fair and that it cannot be possible for all to be shaved over a comb here, whether they copy author's rights here or not, must be clearly established once. I'm sure that's not useful. Or think of an industrial company, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, who never came to mind, intervene in copyrights and copy any technical books that only have to deal with accounting documents at copy level, or are copied of invoices only. All these entrepreneurs are here unreflected in this remuneration. However, I also believe that from the point of view of schools, universities and vocational training institutions, which would then have to pay a second tax, it is not acceptable and responsible at the moment, given the budgetary crisis and the restrictions on research and universities, that there is a double taxation here again. Because, ladies and gentlemen, think of schools. They have to pay for the first time when they buy the copying machine. And the second time, the individual copy will be taxed once again by way of an operator's remuneration, so that according to the current calculations it is expected that not only the copying equipment will become more expensive, but also the individual copy by about 35 sizes per piece. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cordially invite you to accept our amendment. On the one hand, the amendment provides for an improvement in the legal status of the film-makers, the film-copy, on the one hand, in the view of the old films, which are fully involved, on the other hand, through the full exercise of the remuneration rights, also in the case of translation rights. On the other hand, this amendment also provides for a cancellation of the copy tax for the reasons mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal in particular to the Austrian People's Party not to let this law enter into force with the copy tax. I have heard yesterday that the Austrian People's Party is already trying to compensate the economy for such a unilateral provision and supports a longer period of entry into force, but of course that does not benefit. Because once a law has been passed, a later date of entry into force does not change anything at the time of entry into force – unless, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you want a later entry into force only to be able to prepare another novel. But it really doesn't make sense to pass a law and renovate it in the next breath. Ladies and gentlemen! For the reasons set out above, therefore, we are proposing the amendment. If the amendment is not complied with, we see ourselves forced to reject the whole of the novel at third reading, knowing that with our amendment we would have rightly provided the film maker with a good service according to their work.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5100	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5122	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Novelle Copyright Act 1996 has been intensively consulted for two years, since it has already been updated in 1993. At that time Community law was adapted to the EEA. The wishes of the artists were not sufficiently taken into account in 1993, but it was promised to make a larger novel that is available here today. The aim of the novelle is an appropriate bill for the exploitation of the products of artists, authors, cultural creators. Primaryly, this will improve the economic situation of the cultural maker. That is to say, in addition to the so-called exorbitant subsidies, he has the opportunity to receive a fee for his performance via the recovery contributions. This is just an attempt at equality between material and intellectual property. In other words, in a highly developed economy, in a market economy as we understand ourselves, a market value must be granted in addition to material and intellectual products. But with us, spiritual property is far from the value that should actually come to him. The value added of the copyright industries comprises around 2 per cent of the gross domestic product: These are film, television, video, design, graphics, theater, photography, architecture, advertising et cetera. These sectors offer 74 000 jobs, they are classic growth sectors, and therefore a copyright law novelle is also an economic factor. The aim is to provide fair and fair opportunities in the market to help market mechanisms by means of legal regulations in the form of the granting of legal licences to groups that would otherwise never have their rights. The main point of the novelle is the reprography remuneration mentioned by Mr Krüger, i.e. a remuneration for reproduction – photocopies, other types of reproduction of printing works, including sheet material. This has been carried out in a double-duty manner, namely as a device compensation for the placing on the market of reprography equipment, and as an operator remuneration. It is incorrect, Mr Krüger, if you claim that this will increase the cost of equipment by 10%. Because the equipment on the market is manufactured by international companies, and they can already be offered internationally with this remuneration on the market. That is, the corporations know what it is about, they can deal with it. At present it is true that in Austria, because of – I say so now – a little too little competition these devices are already a little more expensive than abroad. [[Abg. Rossmann: This is because of the higher value added tax in Austria!]] It is not only because of the higher value added tax, Mrs Rossmann, but it is simply so When the market produces it, it is good; if not, if things are bought abroad, the suppliers of this equipment must also address them. [[Abg. Rossmann: High wage side costs! The total cost structure!]] It is true that the cost structure in Austria – as I am on your side – is relatively high, especially in the case of wage costs. But compared to Germany, it is not always necessary that we have higher prices than in Germany. [[Abg. Rossmann: The VAT!]] Apart from VAT. I believe that these devices are not necessarily becoming more expensive. For example, the reprography remuneration in Germany is not 10 percent, as Mr. Krüger has done, but only 0.5 to 2 percent. The law does not contain a percentage, it must be negotiated by the producers and the collecting companies. And in Germany, at present, copies do not become more expensive by 35 sizes – these are figures that are unsanitary. At present, the remuneration price in Germany is between 2 and 4 groschen. I personally am unhappy with this remuneration, I admit. We are thus introducing new bureaucracy, and it is not really perfectly implemented with regard to the technical standard. It is true, however, that in order to protect the intellectual property of authors and composers with a view to weighing the legal interests, the introduction of this remuneration can be accepted. We already know a similar solution when it comes to empty-case remuneration, which works bureaucraticly, although it is unloved in the economy. I do not wish to hide that this tax will entail a significant burden on public budgets. In particular, the educational institutions – school holders, WIFIs, BFIs et cetera – will in future be enormously burdened by this remuneration, especially in the purchase of equipment. If they make copies available for a fee, this fee shall be included in the price and shall be paid to the person who needs the copies. Another focus of this novel is the improvement of the rights of film owners. This is a compromise that allows producers to sell and sell their films worldwide, but also enables film owners – i.e. directors, cameramen, cutters, costume pictures, furniture and cetera – to participate in the economic results of the overall work through further exploitation. The use concerns in particular the new technologies such as cable television, videocassettes et cetera. The distribution of the utilization contributions between producers and film owners in relation to 50 : 50 seems to be a fair solution, balanced between the creative contribution of the authors on the one hand and the capital use and the economic risk of producers on the other. The film actors are not specifically mentioned in these new regulations, but that does not mean that they have no rights. The EU's rental and lending directive expressly recognises the actors. The fact that no tantimes have flown for actors so far is not so much due to the legislation but rather to the efficiency of their own representation to assert these rights of exploitation. It is soon to be expected that film actors will also make a bit of pressure in relation to their collecting society and then share in the revenues. In addition to EU adaptations in the field of satellite and cable TV – satellite transmissions are relevant in the country by copyright, from which the broadcast takes its outcome; I have already mentioned that film-makers are involved in cable recycling rights – the novelle brings a limited exhibition right in the form of a reasonable remuneration claim, an intensification of criminal law regulations when copyrights are breached in commercial terms – i.e. by professionally produced black copies that are brought to the people. The novelle also provides easier access to scientifically protected works for teaching and science, and – this is especially important for Austrian tourism – a legal license for the performance of commercial video cassettes in accommodation establishments. Videocassettes must be provided free of charge. However, the accommodation operator – the hotelier, the host, the pensioner – must, if he offers his guests this ancillary service, pay an appropriate recovery fee to the collecting companies. The video films presented free of charge must be at least two years old, so as to ensure that primary cinema success is not undermined by such performance possibilities. Finally, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A major demand of the art-makers, which was made at the conference on copyright in Salzburg in 1992/93, has not been implemented, namely the so-called right to follow-up. As a result, it is about the fact that an artist is to continue to co-participate in the further sale of his work of art. Remember: This is relevant when an artist reaches very high prices for his works in his later stage of work. He should co-participate with the proceeds of his first works, which were still favorable, if they are later sold expensively. In the review procedure, this right of consequence, as not to be expected otherwise, was rejected by the payers – those are the art trades, the galleries et cetera – with the argument that the introduction of the successor right would cause serious economic damage to domestic art trade, which would ultimately also have a negative impact on the artists themselves, since they, if the galleries cannot live, do not receive money. Surprisingly, in the discussion, it was then that well-known artists, especially very prominent painters, joined this argument, but also the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science, Research and Art, so that no agreement could be reached on it and this right of succession remains in space and for negotiation. At present, there are harmonisation efforts in the EU on copyright. It will be shown whether the reprography compensation or the right to follow will also be standardised by me in an EU directive, and at the latest then, ladies and gentlemen, we will deal with this issue again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5188	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5218	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First, I would like to read Mr Popp von Literar-Mechana's opinion to Mr Fekter, who opposes the argument that there could be a cash flow abroad by buying copyists abroad: If we want to take this as a measure, we must take action to prevent the use of copiers from abroad. I'm wondering, Where are we actually, are we now in the EU – a free market – or not? Should restrictions come after which one cannot at one time obtain copying equipment from abroad? – Sure people will do that in the future. But now to another section of this novel, namely to the long-standing discussion about the playback of films in accommodation or gastronomy companies – Mr. Puttinger certainly knows exactly what will come now; he already laughs. Since there are video systems, there is also this debate. Of course, it has long been overtaken – even from technology – because it is about whether or not video films can be presented in hotel and gastronomy companies. I mean, it's pretty easy these days. In each hotel a hall can be cleaned out and a Quasikino installed by playing a video wall with a large image projector. Films can be shown – of course free of charge. That means that there is no longer any competitive argument regarding the light theatre, the cinemas, at all. That is why it is completely incomprehensible for me to have limited this to the hotel industry and to exclude gastronomy companies from it. For me, it is incomprehensible that someone in his office, if accessible from the outside and there is a room outside, may very well be able to perform a film, but the next host, in a similar stüberl where there is no room for strangers, is not allowed. In this sense, we will present an amendment today, even with regard to the latest tourism statistics published today, after which we will again have to make massive outflows. The decrease in the number of nights spent in the previous year alone is 7 percent in Tyrol. Mr Cap! You don't need to shake your head. There is a loss of money, including the Austrian state. We are not competitive in terms of entertainment; we need a bad weather program that all can offer. On behalf of the Liberal Members, Mr Krüger, Mr Rossmann, Mr Haigermoser and Mr Rosenstingl, I tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to say the following: Minister Michalek! You are accused that you have not considered the law more generously and therefore have not solved the problems of the tourism industry to make sure. But I would already like to suggest in this House that all the laws that will be made in the future will be overrun, including for a certain sector – in this case it is the very marode and sick tourism industry. It can't be that laws come from every member of the government and repeatedly intervene in certain areas, such as tourism. This is where you have to think and in the future make sure that the laws are well-suited to tourism – that would be my request to you. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5342	The amendment tabled by Mrs Rossmann is sufficiently supported. He's on trial. Next, Member Dr. Fuhrmann spoke. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the President-in-Office of the Justice Committee has already said in her speech, this amendment to the Copyright Act is something that this Parliament had to repeat. And this is happening today in the interest of the affected artists of this country, who went out quite empty at the novelle in 1993 – we want to formulate it once salopp. It has indeed been neglected in 1993 to do away with the things we are catching up with today. I do not think it is a stone from the crown if, as a parliamentarian, one self-critically admits that this process could have been a little faster. We all know why this debate is only going to take place today and will come to this decision-making process. If we are made by one side or another of the accusation: So it shouldn't have taken that long!, you can only say: Yeah, that's right. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, this period of time, which I would like to make in order to correct the statements made by the two counter-voicers, has led to the fact that what we are going to decide today is a compromise variant. The novelle in almost all its content – except for a few small things – is a compromise between the groups concerned, in particular – I recall the discussions of colleague Krüger – between filmmakers and film producers. I know there are still differences in a few things, but it's just not like the FPÖ's cultural speaker described here. There has suddenly been a strong discussion over the last few days, and that is also what is not surprising, very massively reflected in the discussions of the two counter-reputers. As far as the rulers or companies that have had hundreds of thousands of schilling are concerned, try to force parliamentarians to kneel and soften us through an advertisement campaign, you can only say: There are some in this House who seem to have succeeded in this, because they have seen from the last meeting of the Committee on Justice, Mr Krüger, to this day on the issue of the reprography levy an uninteresting change of their priorities. Because as far as I remember... – Thank you for confirming that I am not making an unjust accusation to you. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This has not been discussed at all!]] I cannot recall that the members of the Committee on Justice, which are put forward by your group, but also you personally, in the very detailed and very dedicated discussions of the Committee of Justice, have spoken about what you have presented to us today in terms of reprography compensation with great commitment. As you say correctly, this has not been discussed at all. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We would have sat there until midnight!]] That is interesting, ladies and gentlemen. This should be said again about the micro, so that it can also be included in the Stoneographic Protocol, namely that Mr Krüger has now called me: That is why we would not have done so because otherwise the Committee on Justice would have taken too long. – I’m curious, like that of others... – Well, he literally said so, I don’t want to stop with it now either. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: He literally said that we were sitting there until midnight!]] I believe that, for me and for the others involved in this judicial committee meeting, nothing has happened about the "F" in terms of reprography compensation or reprography levy. Incidentally, yesterday and yesterday we found huge and, if we are engaged, very worrying and strange ads in some newspapers, in which some Austrian companies suddenly come to terms; Agfa, Artaker, Canon, Kodak, Minolta, Olivetti and Rank Xerox; all the original "Austrian" companies – have found it necessary to require us Austrian parliamentarians to use advertising, which we have to decide or not to decide in this House. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we let this break in once... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Mr Meisinger! It may be that you have dealt with the fines of the Copyright Act and the problems of Austrian artists so intensively that you are able to contribute to this objective. I would like to invite you, however, to do this from the pult so that we can listen to it with due attention and at least read it in the minutes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to continue my thinking now, ladies and gentlemen. What is the basic idea, the goal of this novelle? At the beginning of my remarks, I have already said that Austrian artists, Austrian cultural artists, are getting something for their intellectual property for what they produce. We can argue for a long time about whether that is justified, whether it is enough, whether it is not enough, it will already be so that all those who have something to pay feel it too expensive, and all those who have something to get are of the opinion that is unfair, it would be much more to us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the House, such an attempt at a legal regime to achieve a fair balance between these two different interests can only be a compromise. If you use experiences and comparisons with existing legislation from other countries, you are not right either. It has already been very remarkable for me to note that a Member of Parliament of the "F" is so excited that we are orienting ourselves to German legislation in a certain matter. – Normally, Mr Krüger, I would have thought that you and your colleagues, if this is a German law, which is from the outset, a priority not exactly... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You have a complex, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Meisinger: Typical!]] Be Don't be so sensitive, let me talk, listen to me! Then you will insist that what you are now secreting into what I want to say was not meant at all. I meant that you did not think it was bad from the outset and that it was a priority, just because it was a German law. So I acknowledge, for example, that I am not against it from the outset, just because the Germans already have such a legal rule. Mr Krüger! The explanations you made here went in this direction, and that surprised me. This is my good right as a Member of Parliament and as an Austrian citizen. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The same thing is treated differently!]] But let us return to the contentious objections. In your speech, you have essentially done nothing but refer to what has been placidly accused of us in the ads and what these companies have written to us here. Let's go down to the contents, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Krüger, who is also the cultural speaker of your group. You've been talking about the "copper tax" depreciatingly. – Although you had this devalued vocabulary with "so-called" the first time, then you only talked about the "copper tax". That's unfair, you know that very well! That's simple and touchingly unfair, because there's no... Oh, yes, I've listened very closely to you! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I did exactly that! Didn't you listen?]] I see it's unpleasant to you because I'm giving you a lot of what They claimed and were not correct, suggestions. You've been talking about the "copper tax" several times, and especially with you who are your lawyer, I could assume that you're used to using words precisely. You have therefore made no mistake, but you have made it conscious. The denunciation of this reprography charge as "copy tax" is unfair, is unfair! It is decided here that, as we have already provided for in the law in force and as in the Novelle of Copyright Law in 1980, in the case of empty-case remuneration, and as I believe it has been done, it is now possible to do so in the area of those artists who, with their intellectual property, with the work they have produced, appear not on cassettes but on printed paper. At that time, it was rightly said that the copyright law generally assumes that the authors should be properly involved in the economic results of their work. This must apply, ladies and gentlemen of the High House, but also to artists and authors of works whose spiritual and artistic product is duplicated by reproographic methods, such as photocopy, photocopies et cetera. So what is claimed elsewhere is simply not right. Next point: It is always said that all of this is bad and wrong now, and on the other hand, we are called: You're too late! You should've done this a lot earlier! And here we hear again: It's too early! What about the Info Highway? What about the CD-ROMs? You should have taken that into account! We should have waited. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hlavac will deal with the European approach to the rules on this issue, so I can save myself this, but one thing I would like to say to you: To claim that the German regulation, the Spanish regulation, the Belgian regulation – like it is in Greece, Poland, Slovenia – that all this is totally outdated and that only the copy of a completely outdated German law is simply incorrect and, I say, demagogical; demagogical and brought about by those who now want to make the admirable public in Austria that, if we... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Listen to me! Maybe you can bring this to a rethink as a cultural speaker. Especially those artists who, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, in Spain, in Belgium, are faced with exactly the same regulation that we now believe to be so dramatic and horrific now, can live very well with it, have no problems at all with it. Our Austrian artists, for example, when they publish in Germany, also receive the money from there. Mr Krüger! Once you have to explain to an Austrian author how you can represent it to be against a regulation that is similar to that of the Austrian author in his home country Austria with those regulations he has had in Germany for almost ten years. You have to explain to me how you want to make it plausible for you to act against it. I can only explain to myself that this has been done by the advertising campaign in you. It has been mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, that this will add to the burden of public budgets. It'll be like that, but I'll ask you again: How do you explain to the artists – a few are on the top of the mountain and deserve a lot; it is granted to you; but these few who are on top of the top are standing on a huge pyramid of small ones who often live on the edge of the minimal of existence – that on the one hand, you and your party, Mr Krüger, these artists are always on the other side! – Fire market, if it receives subsidies from the state, and then lowers them as a state artist – devalued – but then on the other hand also stirs up again, even if the public hand is to pay its justified charges and the justified price for this work of the artists? When we talk about schools, ladies and gentlemen, we must also make an honest statement: According to today's legal situation, according to the current legal status of the Copyright Act, schools are forbidden to work with copies unless the consent of the legitimate artist is obtained. Let us really argue, Mr Krüger, in this Parliament, that you have been referred to in two respects, as colleague and as a lawyer: Do we maintain the state that injustice is happening, that one does not see anything, does not hear anything and does not want to talk about the fact that schools are not doing properly, not in the interests of the artists, the authors? Or do we confess that this costs something? Anyone who provides a service which, in any form whatsoever, is claimed by any part of the public hand, by any entity has a right to receive his remuneration for it. This applies not only to private, but also to public hands. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a short sentence to Mrs Rossmann, whom I do not see, but, as I believe,... [[Call out to the liberals: there she is, eh!]] Where is she? - Haigermoser has covered you, Mrs. Colleague. Excuse me! That's why I can use this sentence... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Altklubmann! No artificial excitement!]] Haigermoser! Not so old, young enough! But I speak to Mrs Rossmann, I may address her another sentence. Mrs Rossmann! You must have misunderstood the fact that someone should have said that you should not purchase copiers from abroad. You didn't understand. I am not the advocate of Mrs Fekter, but she did not say that. This is no one's business either. Only: If it is argued that it would be terrible if, by this levy, funds, good Austrian money, were to flow to any obscene artists abroad, then it would have to be allowed to point out that, when buying copiers from those companies that have dedicated these ads, of course, money would also flow abroad. My God, this is in the sense of a modern economic union, but we do not exclude the artists. Let's not do the following: Let us not argue that everything that is right for traders, for self-employed, for others, for example for artists and cultural workers, is not cheap, because it is too expensive for anyone. Mrs Rossmann! If we understand the complaint that you have made to us as a very committed woman in tourism, I must say that the new provisions of the Copyright Act now also introduce a very tourism-friendly provision. It is now allowed something that was not allowed before. I know from my friend Rudolf Parnigoni, our tourist speaker, that he has long been working for this purpose. If we introduce this now, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why Mrs Rossmann is excited about it unless she wanted to have a film screen attached to each of Austria's innhouses. So I have to tell you honestly, it is questionable whether this would be so good for the tourist location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: I believe that all those who will agree to today's amendment to the copyright law after this debate can do so with good conscience, both from an economic point of view and in the interest of artists and thus from a cultural point of view. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5536	Member of Parliament Dr Krüger has reported an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor to do so and ask you to begin with the claim that you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5557	Mr President. Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann claimed that I had used the term "copper tax" in a misleading way. I would like to point out that I have just relativized this concept and specifically stated that it is not a tax collection right of a local authority. I have just quoted the legislative text, my dear colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, namely that in this case it is a reprography fee in favour of the authors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5588	Mr Dr. Fuhrmann spoke on a personal reply. - Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5609	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you many times, I won't need those three minutes. Mr Krüger personally apostrophized me in his actual correction and accused me of not quoting him correctly. All those who will read the Minutes will be able to find that my accusation to him was completely correct, and I do not take back any word from it. I made it clear that he relativized this the first time he called the term "tax", but during his speech several times – I think to remember: two to three times – the word "copper tax" then did not use relativized. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you believe this, or is it?]] That is why I am not going to take this word back after the false actual correction of Mr Krüger. I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5645	The next item is Mrs Dr. Schmidt. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. Speech time: 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5666	Mr President. Minister! I do not think I need to repeat what is regulated in the present copyright law novelle. Firstly, it should be known that, second, it was carried out by my previous speakers to a good part. I believe that it is especially important to understand – at least this is our understanding of this novel – that it is very specific about the importance of intellectual property. Material property in Austria – which is not an Austrian particularity, but particularly important for us – is a value that is wonderfully quantifiable. Therefore, the regulation of the exploitation of material property has never been a problem. There are financial rules. As far as intellectual property is concerned, rules had to be set up. If, although Mr Fekter has apparently similar access to things and is illuminating intellectual property from a particular point of view, he says that because we are in a market economy, one must find a corresponding market value for intellectual property as well, then I think that this is an alarming formulation, because it is moving in a water that is about to be measured only by its market value and, as a measure, whether it concerns people or other things, mainly figures. Something has its value only when its benefits are to be estimated. All of this leads to the fact that not only culture policy will not be taken seriously as soon as it moves outside the market value, as you have mentioned. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: What are market values and recovery contributions? - That's the market!]] It is precisely that you think that this should be the only measure in order to be able to deal with intellectual property. It goes so far as to measure people by what they are worth, what value they can still have for a society, old people, disabled people, strangers and the like. You have to see the contexts. It may be that you may find it ridiculous that you stretch the bow so far. But I believe that it would be very essential, in particular, for politicians to think holisticly and to formulate it. One should see the contexts and the consequences of them. If, in your opinion, this intellectual property should only be measured on the market value, then I must say that I simply refuse to discuss such a mental attitude, because I believe that a society must also do things, yes, that have no market value, that a society should even do things that have no "benefit" – and that I now put "benefits" under the quotation mark, because this word is meant by the way it is used in our society at national level. Although copyright is a matter to be negotiated in the Committee on Justice, it is, in fact, cultural policy. It would be so important to understand this access, namely that we want something that does not have immediate material benefits. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] From this point of view, we will decide things differently, and that goes all the way to copyright. I am still referring to the copy levy, which you have spoken about, and which you made so strong and meant earlier, that this should be changed at the last second. The affinity of the FPÖ is not new, but it is my duty to put it in the foreground again and again. The fact that the reproducing art in Austria is clearly disadvantaged is also a fact. Now I already know that we are going to talk about the art report afterwards, but it is necessary to make this reference as far as copyright is concerned, to see how important such a law is, in order to get the producing art out of its irrational situation. In the art budget – this must be kept in mind on every occasion – there is a breakdown of the billions: 3 billion go to the Bundestheaterverband, 1 billion goes to the museums, and only 1 billion goes to the producing art, namely to the art section that is there to distribute this money. That's what you already see as the priority. Unfortunately, there is still such a fact that the large institutions are actually exploiting the framework, so that little money is available for the free scene and for the cultural initiatives. That is why I say all of this, because it will understand how important this law is and how important it is that, if it appears to oppose economic interests, as formulated by this strange advertising campaign, one knows on which side one is on. Either one is on the side of the copy producers, as you and Mr Krüger have articulated it here, or one understands that in this case it is about money that is to be done to the authors, is equal to the cultural creators. It is really curious – anyone has already said it – that there are no leading copyists in Austria at all; it is all about foreign companies. Of course, it can also be said that if the economy only leaves an advertisement – in this case it was a million-severe campaign – then we are no longer interested in the interests of cultural creators. That is exactly what you would do if you were to put something that has been overdue for a long time, namely to give this tax to the culturalists, away at once, only because you want to acquire a wrong economic profile. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As we have agreed on two "Vienna hours" as the speaking time and as a result of which the Liberal Forum is only 18 minutes, I now have to concentrate on those areas where we will put forward amendments. The debate on the other points was also held in the Committee. Mr Motter will in particular also be discussing the right of successor. By the way, it is typical for you to move a lot to the EU. You really mustn't be surprised if we have EU fatigue if you always say: We like to do it differently, but now we are waiting for the EU! – People feel that Austria... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The artists themselves did not want that, Mrs. Schmidt!]] This will then be discussed by my colleague, Mother. I must now pay attention to my speaking time. You said: Now we are waiting for the EU, and then we will continue to talk, instead of having more self-understanding not only as a person, not only as a political group, but above all as a representative of Austria. That would be my idea. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I will make an amendment to § 26, to which we would like to add an § 26a. It is about the so-called best-seller paragraph. This is a provision that has been in place for a long time in other countries. We have been oriented towards the German formulation. I am therefore apologising for a formulation that I do not like very much. However, a long thought has gone ahead in Germany, and I think it makes sense to take on a proven formulation. It is mainly about young artists who, when entering into a contract, cannot yet know the above-average success they have achieved – with expectation – in their work. But they are supposed to be able to participate in it afterwards. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the content of this wording is so clear that I do not have to make any further explanations. I now come to the next amendment. It is about taking into account the role of the actors, which is the success or failure of a film. It is true that the proper interpretation of the current provisions could already enable the actors to be involved in the financial success. The fact is, however, that this is not the case in practice and that, in particular, the film producers reject it. And it comes to it – this is also an EU thing, maybe becoming You will be here when the EU calls us to order – that this also contradicts the EU's rental and lending directives. I do not want to wait until the EU calls us to order, but I believe that it must be our self-understanding to give the actors a right. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I come to the last amendment – Klara, if you submit your request, you have to talk so quickly, because we don't have much time anymore –: In this case – and this has already been mentioned by the other colleagues – one - I am saying now - really arbitrary deadline when it comes to re-regulation of copyright. Here, the ORF has obviously been very easy to achieve, and the links between the government parties and the ORF are good. The ORF was thus able to enforce a transitional arrangement, so that the film maker's participation in the proceeds only applies to those films that are based on the 1st century. ==References====External links== I don't want to mention the point right now. – You can look at it yourself in the law if you are interested in it. This is completely arbitrary and means an injustice to those who have produced before. We believe that the deadline should be lost at all. That is why we are proposing. But now I've made a big mistake, I'm apologizing the Greens – that's what I'm saying now. Those three requests, which I read, are applications that we make together. All three applications are requests from Mr Stoisits and Mr Schmidt. I'm asking for forgiveness, I've missed it. In the Committee we have discussed this in such a way that it is more efficient if only one uses his speaking time for it. I'll do this. That is, as it were, my restitution. I shall now make the last request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support these requests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5814	All three amendments tabled by Mrs Dr Schmidt are, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The next one is Mrs Magnette. Stoisits. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5838	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr President. The copyright law novelle has already been discussed relatively in detail by all those who have now spoken in front of me in their content and content. That's why I don't want to repeat that anymore. At the end of her speech, Mrs Schmidt said that we had tabled joint amendments. Mrs Motter will put forward another amendment. I therefore do not want to repeat the same in terms of efficiency. These four amendments, as well as the Liberals, are of great concern to us, especially because they refer primarily to the gaps of these new laws to be adopted today; Gaps in so far as they are a matter of discussion, which, at least since I was a member of the Committee on Justice, have been discussed permanently, even at the last part-session. Above all, I would like to stress the right of follow-up contained in the first draft of the Federal Minister, which unfortunately has not been done so far that we can also adopt it today. Nevertheless, it is essential and proper. It has essentially been argued against the right of succession in the public, not only by well-known Austrian artists, but also by representatives of interest or gallerists from the art trade, namely the argument that the business is disturbed. I'm saying it as simple as that once. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In a sense, this argument is correct. The business of those who benefit exclusively from the lack of a follow-up right is disrupted. And these are those who have done a lot of business and will do much more with the intellectual product and intellectual property of an artist. That the accusation that it would not be particularly favourable for the art trade must not mean the end of the art trade shows examples from other countries. In other European countries, the right of consequence has been introduced for a long time – for example in Belgium, Spain, Germany, Denmark, France, Italy and Portugal – and in all these countries there is at least as flourishing art trade as in Austria, only with the difference that not only a small group, namely the art dealer, the galleryr and the collector and reseller of course, but also those who create these works of art, for example, when it comes to visual art. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This gap, which strikes in Austria, is really urgent and urgent to close, and in this direction the amendment to be read by the next speaker goes as well. The importance of intellectual property, which is at the centre of the copyright law as a whole and then, of course, every novelle, including today's one, should not be overlooked, although it was not in the Committee on Culture, but as a civil law matter in the Committee on Justice. I am saving myself not to repeat the unworthy discussion about a possible postponement of the date of entry into force of the repro-charge. I must say, however, that I am glad that Mrs Fekter and, subsequently, Dr Fuhrmann, who still had this intention until yesterday at this time, have been moved away from it because I can now believe in her perceptiveness that copyright is not about the interests of foreign copiers, but primarily about the protection of the interests of those who are also the object of this novel – and these are artists in Austria and their creations. Ladies and gentlemen! The best-seller paragraph mentioned by Dr Schmidt would have been a particularly great concern to me, precisely because the bestseller paragraph meets a group of writers, namely the youngest or the young, who, if they are surprisingly successful in their work, cannot use it in a material way directly for this work. Perhaps the Federal Minister could take this as a very, very essential suggestion for the next novel of the Copyright Act. There must be a next novel, ladies and gentlemen, because in every discussion relating to the protection of intellectual property and intellectual product, we are going further into a future which cannot be estimated at all. I consider the complex of copyright to be one of the most exciting as a part of the whole of the media right, because we are most rapidly developing, which we are dealing with throughout the civil law field at all. In the case of what we have experienced in recent years alone at the speed of new developments, hardly anyone really keeps pace with the legal regulations. A few years ago, no one knew a CD-ROM. Today, CD-Rom, Internet and the virtual world as a whole are something that almost everyone is confronted with. There is a world in which the legal system and, therefore, the legislator is concerned with legal protection, which, however, is hardly yet tangible and affordable. In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Justice will face a particularly serious challenge in the future, and I hope that we too – in other words, we here in the National Council – will, of course, meet this challenge with their help. In doing so, the European Union, which, by its directives – I believe it is – will always generally be able to give us a very pioneering role, perhaps a small guideline. We can certainly claim to be a pioneer in considering these new regulations if we are to make a timely effort to do so in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, the Greens of the Novelles as a whole will agree, although we believe that the next novelle should be negotiated here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5911	The Federal Minister for Justice has now spoken. Please, Federal Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5932	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer briefly to three fundamental aspects of copyright, which are also relevant to this novel, and which have already been addressed today: its importance within the framework of the whole legal order, both as regards the protection of the authors and the interest of the general public in access to copyrighted works or services, as well as the influence of technical development on copyright and, finally, to the relationship with Community law. The fact that copyright is hardly anchored in the general public and only relatively few professionals are familiar is a clear contrast to the actual meaning of copyright both for the cultural and economic life of our country. In addition to the protection of the author's personal relationship to his work from an ideal point of view, the rights of exploitation to the author to safeguard the economic fruits of his intellectual work are of particular practical importance. Only a strong copyright protection makes artistic production possible, which is as independent as possible of public or private measles, and is thus an important element in promoting the cultural performance of a country. It is in the nature of the matter, but does not make the relevant meaning of copyright less significant that its cultural effects are not quantifiable. The economic importance of copyright, on the other hand, can be demonstrated by figures, and the annual value added of this economic sector in Austria by Mrs Fekter is more than 2% of the gross domestic product, expressed in Schilling, at least over 25 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the legislator is not only obliged to adequately protect the interests of the reasonable; it must also take due account of the interests of the general public in access to copyrighted works and services and find a balanced balance between these sometimes contrary interests. I believe that this draft law is not just a matter of obligation, but of satisfactory compromises. A second important aspect is the influence of technological development on copyright today, but the use of its work by the author in most cases by means of technical means is carried out in principle. The Austrian Copyright Act has given impressive confirmation to the great advantage - the case law of the Supreme Court has confirmed this in some cases in recent years - that it is so general and flexible that it can satisfy various technical developments even without the intervention of the legislator. As far as the legislator still has to respond and intervene, it is usually not a question of basic innovations, but of fine-tuning the existing rules, for example by restricting exclusion rights for a particular area to a mere right of compensation or vice versa by restricting previously existing free use of labour to certain cases. The reprography regulation, which has already been discussed several times in this draft law, I believe is a particularly good example. It combines both measures in one way, as I believe, the interests of the mainly Austrian authors on the one hand and the public interest in access to copyrighted works on the other. In connection with technical development, I think a few words on the subject that are currently being discussed not only here in the hall, but all over the world, namely the exploitation of copyright-protected works in data networks or, in order to use a term in the US, in the global information infrastructure. In fact, it is a development that raises multiple copyright issues. In view of the already mentioned openness of the applicable Austrian copyright for new technical exploitation possibilities, it is also important that these questions can first be answered on the basis of the applicable law. I therefore believe that there is no urgent need for legislative action in the other Member States of the European Union, and the effects of the exploitation of copyright-protected works in data networks can be observed in a calm manner at the outset before any urgent legislative action is taken. Finally, a word on the influence of Community law on copyright. It is obvious that this is considerable. The Novelle Copyright Act 1993 has already transposed two relevant directives, and two directives are also implemented with this amendment. The activities of the Community institutions in this area continue: Consider, for example, the considerations about the protection of databases or the harmonisation of the right to follow, as I believe, which is certainly in need of regulation. I believe that this influence of Community law is by no means to be complained of, but that it is essentially a positive view. Copyright-protected works do not in principle have any limits; they are generally used internationally. Despite international agreements in this field, however, each country has its own copyright rules, which are very different not only at the level of protection, but also in various but very important details. This can make exploitation over the national borders extremely difficult, expensive and complicated. The harmonisation of copyright in the Community at a high level of protection, which Austria is already fulfilling, is thus satisfying a real need and will also benefit Austrian authors very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e5993	The next speaker is Mrs Hlavac. Madam Member, I would like to give you the floor and draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6015	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Copyright Act is another step towards protecting intellectual property. A number of wishes of the Salzburg Author Congress will be fulfilled with this novel. I can recall that, after this congress, the then cultural speaker of SPÖ and former Minister of Education Hilde Hawlicek called together the art and justice speakers of the parties represented in Parliament and, together with artists, representatives of the collecting societies and other interested parties, discussed the results of this congress, on which we developed first ideas. There was then a first novel, which was of rather limited content – primarily adopted by EU directives at the time – but with the library status a step was taken, for example, which was not undisputed, which also cost the libraries money, but which, on the other hand, took into account the demands of the artists and took a part in the exploitation of their works. The novelle that is present today is, as has been said, a second step. In doing so, further wishes of this author's congress will be realized while at the same time fulfilling the wishes of the users of copyrighted works and services, such as the reprography remuneration, which will be abolished in the form of a device remuneration and operator remuneration. This measure, like most in the field of copyright, is also not undisputed. In the case of reprography remuneration, schools, universities, vocational training institutions or adult education, research institutions, libraries, and so on, additional costs which have not yet been incurred. However, this legalizes the reproduction and use of works, for example in teaching. I think this is a sensible measure. I think that it must be concluded with the actual illegal use of copies in teaching and that it is also in the interests of teachers if there is a clear regulation. But above all, in the field of copyright, we assume that the authors should be properly involved in the economic results of their work. If one is committed to protecting intellectual property, then the associated costs must also be accepted. It has been discussed both in the previous novel and now in the debate about the right of succession. This amendment does not contain any relevant provisions, since the resistance of the various groups was too large. I admit that it is unsatisfying to see that, for example, an art collector can sell an image of an artist who is still young to buy a butterbread and then, if the artist has become famous to sell a very high amount, the artist does not receive anything of it and has nothing of this development. I am very much in favour of promoting young artists, but I am not sure whether copyright is the appropriate way to implement these promotions. Copyright is used for the regulation and design of the exploitation of works of art and not, in fact, the charging of market developments. I think we should think about this question again, and I also recognize that it is really important to promote artists, especially young artists, to give them the opportunity to exhibit, to give them the opportunity to take time for their art. I just don't know if that's the right way. It is clear from copyright that new novels are always needed. Not only on the basis of photocopiers, but also in many other areas, it can be seen that the development of copyright is very much linked to technical development. If there are new developments, it is always necessary to adapt copyright in the interests of producers. Due to the easy copying of texts, works of visual art, computer programs and musical pieces, it was necessary to repeatedly remedy and help the author to his right. How difficult this is can be seen in the field of information technologies – which has already been discussed several times today – and I too would like to focus on this issue now, because I see from the Green Paper of the European Commission and similar discussions that there is a problem that is very difficult to deal with. The networks are already used by the use of digital communication technologies for commercial, educational and research purposes. Networks have essentially developed under open communication standards, and the content exchanged over them is currently only partly protected by intellectual property rights. As the flow of data will increase, its legal and technical protection is of great importance. On the one hand, the use of the data networks should not be impeded, but on the other hand the copyright of intellectual property should be protected. This is also an economic issue because the protection of copyrights has become an essential part of the legal framework necessary for the competitiveness of the cultural industry. Industry will only invest in the various creative activities if it can prevent its illegal exploitation and benefit from the profits of investment. Production and value-added in this area are experiencing very high growth. For example, the audiovisual sector has recorded an annual real growth rate of 6 percent in recent years. The considerable storage capacity for works and data in the field of data-highways covers both traditional works and multimedia art, i.e. a combination of data and works of different nature – image text, music and software. The analysis of the preferred content for the release of CD-ROMS in Europe shows considerable growth in most relevant areas. For example, from 1993 the field of culture and entertainment shows a growth of more than 73 percent, art and age science: 62 percent, advertising, design and marketing: 53 percent, computer programs: 47.8 per cent, and and so on. Although there are only 0.5 percent of private CD-ROM devices in the states of the European Union, in the USA there are already 3.1 percent. That means: The development must not be stopped. However, in response to this development, there should not be any major changes to copyright – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this – but there is no need to take immediate action and take drastic measures. However, it is about adaptations, and therefore the next reform, which is already in view, will have to include the legal protection of databases. There is also a draft directive of the European Union. This means that in the foreseeable future we will have to deal with the issues of copyright again, that we will have to put in place measures that are in line with developments, and that copyright law novels will be necessary in the future. In any case, the innovation now in hand represents a positive step. It is an independent development, not just an EU one. And I think we should continue along this path of consensus, common development, common progress.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6100	Mrs Motter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the – Madam President, I would like to give you the floor and draw your attention to the short time when reading any amendments that may be made.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6121	Mr President, I will make an effort. Ladies and gentlemen! My word reference refers to an amendment that has the right to follow – I can justify it very briefly. The right of succession allows a visual artist whose works gain in value over time to earn part in this increase in value. This scheme already exists in Germany, France and Belgium. Finally, it will be introduced throughout the EU. The following right enables Austrian artists to earn their pictures at auctions or in galleries in Austria and not only in Germany or France. Of course, this should also apply to foreign artists if your pictures are sold in Austria. We Liberals believe that we should not wait for the pan-European solution, but are quite entitled to take on a pioneering role here. Mrs Hlavac! If I have followed your comments correctly, you may be able to give our request today the approval that I am now submitting: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this request is entitled to receive your consent as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6215	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The request you have read is sufficiently supported, it is included in the negotiations. I have no more speech, and I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take the places now because we have some votes to take. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 40 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. Deputies Dr Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request and amendments. I shall therefore vote on the parts concerned by the applications and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of § 16c in Article I. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this supplementary request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. A motion for an amendment tabled by Dr Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades refer to Article I Z 5. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on Rule I.Z.5 as amended by the Committee's report and seek out a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. - That's the majority. This text was adopted in the version of the Committee's report. Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of Z 6 in Article I. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Krüger, to give the same sign. – This is the minority. This amendment is rejected. I shall now vote on Rule I.Z. 6 as amended by the Committee's report and seek out those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. A motion for an amendment tabled by Dr Krüger and Comrades refers to Rule I.Z 8. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment concerning Article I.Z.8 to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall be voting on Rule I.Z. 8 as amended by the Committee's report, and I shall ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This text was adopted in the version of the Committee's report. Deputies Dr. Krüger and comrades have an amendment concerning Article I Z 15 § 56d para. 1 introduced. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I leave immediately on Article I Z 15 § 56d para. 1 as part of the Committee's report, please vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with the Committee's report in order to give an appropriate signal. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Dr Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I.Z 22. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application did not receive the necessary consent. I shall now vote on Rule I.Z. 22 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, may reveal this by a corresponding sign. . This provision was adopted unanimously as part of the Committee's report. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Better than nothing!]] - Please? [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That was my reason!]] Thank you. A motion for an amendment tabled by Dr Krüger and Comrades refers to Rule VI(l) of the Rules of Procedure. 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades 1 introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The amendment was not accepted. I leave immediately on Article VI para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. This part of the text was adopted by a majority, as amended by the Committee's report. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Krüger and Comrades as well as Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades each submitted an amendment to the deletion of the clause. 2 referred to in Article VI. I am looking for a corresponding sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are for the removal. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I now leave it on Article VI para. 2 as part of the Committee's report, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. This request was adopted by a majority. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Schmidt, Mag. Stoisits and comrades 3 introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I leave immediately on Article VI para. 3 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this purpose may give a corresponding sign. This provision was adopted by a majority in the Committee's report. Finally, I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, including title and receipt, which have not yet been voted on, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur, in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this draft law to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The request was adopted by a majority of the third reading. 4. Report by the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology on the 1994 report from the Federal Government (III-3/50 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6271	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item: Report by the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology on the 1994 Art Report of the Federal Government. The rapporteur is Mr Schwemmlein. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to open the debate with reporting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6289	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I bring the report of the Committee on Culture on the 1994 Art Report of the Federal Government (III-3/50 of the Supplements). The 1994 Art Report presents what contemporary Austrian art and Austrian artists can accomplish, how much they can contribute to the international discourse, and what the past year has to show in terms of important artistic and literary achievements. The Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection has the report at its meeting on 26 November. ==References====External links== As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Culture therefore proposes that the National Council should take note of the 1994 Art Report of the Federal Government. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6319	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. For this debate, a speaking time limit of 10 minutes per speaker was agreed, with a speaking time of 20 minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, available to a speaker of each political group. Mr Krüger has now spoken. – Deputies! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6347	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who is seriously concerned with the promotion of art will realize that there are maladministrations there and there. I quote, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the former head of the Wiener Galerie Pakesch, Mr Peter Pakesch, who in a "profile" no. 45 of 6. An interview on the Austrian art bureaucracy was filed in November 1995. He has not only complained about the art bureaucracy, but also, Mr. Minister, about the lobbys that are tearing around the subsidies. Peter Pakesch is now head of the Kunsthalle of Basel. So he is someone who really has an idea of what the practice is all about, especially in fine art. He says here that in Austria all art activities have more to do with the state bureaucracy than with the public. There are, he also complains, not art public, but lobby groups who are tearing for state money. In the same notch, Mr. Bundesminister, the well-known visual artist Wolfgang Zinggl beats himself in an interview in the daily newspaper "Die Presse" of 9. In November 1995 it complained that certain criteria which were not open were being promoted. That's where "Connections", media pressure plays a role, he says. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not least, Elfriede Jelinek also complains about the current situation of artists and art promotion policy in Austria. She explains that the situation of the artists is like a "core-stupid Mozart ball". I'm far from dropping artists. This quote clearly refers – and I am in favour of this quote – to the situation of federal art promotion. Elfriede Jelinek also points out that tax incentives are anything but optimal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have for some time been representing the liberals that we should slowly move away from the federal art monopoly of the state, at least in part, towards the recognition of expenditure for contemporary art as special expenditures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only by this will there be a corresponding spread of the art offering and a wider range of flavors. Now, the situation is such that the Ministry is, of course, presiding over under the Federal Ministry Act, a minister who is subject to decision-making bodies, but ultimately the ministerial responsibility remains. This means that a minister, even if he is serving his advisory board, has the opportunity to apply his own scale to the promotion of art. Ladies and gentlemen! No one will seriously dispute the abuses in this federal art promotion, which are ultimately documented in the Federal Cultural Funding Report. I am thinking, for example, of the association for counter-culture, Mr. Minister, who was promoted and whose chairman was no less than one of the ebergassing assassins, that is Gregor Thaler. However, you can also find a variety of other curious things by browsing through the art promotion report. For example, I am thinking of an association that calls itself as follows – and this, Minister, must be broken on the tongue –: It is not the association for counter-culture of Mr Thaler, where the anti-art and culture is already expressed in the association name, no. This club, which I do not want to throw into a pot with the sickly association of terrorist Gregor Thaler, literally means: Association for the recovery of excess thoughts. – Minister of State! I don't want to get close to the club. The Federal Funding Report does not show any more than the fact that the association was promoted, so that at this stage, without having answered questions or having asked questions, we depend on the interpretation of the name. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this a carnival club, an association for the exploitation of excess thoughts? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Mr Krüger! You cannot imagine having excess thoughts!]] Mrs Stoisits! We know your excess of thoughts only too well, so perhaps you reserve this for your own word. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Stoisits! You say you have excess thoughts. Look for an art promotion once they are so diverse and so creative! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Art Funding increased by 80 percent between 1990 and 1994: from 615 million Schilling in 1990 to 1 120 million Schilling in 1994. From the artist's point of view, this will be considered positive – well-noticed, Mr. Federal Minister: only forerunnery. For I have already represented in the Committee on Art the thesis that the higher the subsidy, the greater the dependency. That's not a question at all. This is not an accusation to the artists either, but it is generally in life that the existence of a dependency relationship can naturally result in a forced situation, which may be used accordingly. [[Abg. Yes, yes!]] I was therefore really surprised at the Committee on Art when this correlation between the level of subsidies and the dependency was adjourned. I don't know why you don't join the logical laws of thought here, I don't understand, because it's clearly so. There is also the old saying: Whom I eat, the song I sing. That this does not apply to all artists is no question at all. I don't want to approach anyone, but if artists have to stretch to the ceiling if they live on the edge of poverty, then they are naturally inclined – also in the interest of their bourgeois existence – to submit to the tastes of the state, the state federal art promotion in order to get into the enjoyment of the means. Federal Minister! You can draw up such fine-tuning guidelines: Finally, art is not definable. [[Abg. Oils: Delicious!]] Also, the Constitutional Legislator has not defined art, but has provided art as something of course. Here I see the danger that some artists are inclined not to focus on opportunism but simply to secure their bourgeois existence, according to criteria that you and your ministry provide. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed this dependence on subsidies in the Committee on Culture. I do not want to hide, Mr Federal Minister, that I have made a accusation to you there, which you have approved. However, I would like to repeat it because your position is to be made known to a wider public. ==References====External links== ==References== In November 1995, under the heading "Scholtens Schneebälle" you, Mr. Federal Minister, have started a kind of chain letter to artists in the course of the election campaign for the 1995 National Council election, which has turned against blue-black. And, according to this report, Mr Minister - you then have the opportunity to comment on it - you have supposedly made sure that this letter has spread pyramid-like or avalanche-like. However, I do not want to mention – I also said this in committee – that I have met someone who was the address of such a chain letter by chance on the journey from Linz to Vienna – I do not know whether this chain letter was decidated by you or one of your possible agents – and has refused to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! That shows this dependence very clearly; it also shows that this dependence is not protected from abuse. There are a variety of incompatibilities in federal art policy, such as the community of authors' interests: The president of the association – I do not know if he has already resigned or is just about to resign – Milo Dor is not only the club president of the interested party authors, but also SPÖ's curatorial member for cultural concerns of SPÖ. Just this association "IG Authors" is an institution that always turns out to flick the freedom of one of the stuff. We know that the association "IG Authors" is almost bankrupt, which was granted after the Frankfurt Book Exhibition itself. But I'm not worried. With the help of the "Connections" of the Milo To Mr Scholten, the tax payer's filling horn will certainly be re-disbursed in abundance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What particularly displeases me about the promotion of German art is the shortage of a network of dependencies and the attempt to link the German art promotion. Nowhere is this more evident than in promoting the so-called free cultural initiatives. We are also faced with the phenomenon that at the national level there are individual local cultural initiatives, which are combined into a cultural platform, as is the case in Upper Austria – and then there is again a umbrella for the whole of Austria, the "IG Culture" – and these ladies and gentlemen can then make great efforts in election times – that is the sadness of it. The editor of the daily newspaper "Die Presse", Dr. Hans Haider, spoke of the SPÖ copying a Stalinist funding model. You want to switch everything all the way from the top, from the "IG Culture" to the bottom. And there is dependence because the free cultural initiatives are subsidized annually with a total of 50 million schilling. We also know, Mr President, that a third of these 50 million schillings are not for creative work but for pure administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger! Should I present your affinity to an association of communist embossing called "Channel Schwerberg" here? I don't know what you want with your call here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank There's no question at all: Everyone may be wrong, everyone may be wrong politically, and I quite agree that you now feel connected to the democratic values of this country. But I want to come back to the "Channel Schwerberg". The unbeautiful of the German art promotion for this association is that the "Channel Schwerberg" is a part of the cultural platform Oberösterreich, and above that, as mentioned above, the "IG Culture", in order not to say, is all the same. This association "Channel Schwerberg", communistly submerged, is the distribution site of the "TATblatt", best known as terrorist pamphlet. Minister One has helped this pamphlet to some fame. There are, of course, local cultural initiatives of other kinds that vehemently oppose being thrown into a pot with the "Channel Schwerberg". No one wants to have anything to do with a distribution site for terrorist leaves. Mr Oellinger, you are sure: It also means "the leaf for perpetrators." The unpleasant thing is that they cannot leave because they depend on the support they get through the cultural platform at the country level and then finally on the "IG culture" and the advisory boards you have set up. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why, as a way out, we want the principle of cultural sponsorship – not only in the commercial sector, but also in the private sector. At the moment, the Liberal Group is silent, but that is the same as that, I believe, is also a consideration of the Liberals, and that is also a good thing. [[Abg. Mother: We only have propriety, Mr. Colleague! We don't want to interrupt you!]] I am not suffering from this reflex that everything that comes from you must be bad. But please accept that the recognition of expenditure on contemporary art as special expenditure would certainly be very appropriate to avoid this dependence to get away from this unsightly feudalistic cultural monopoly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will take a few minutes from the 20 minutes speaking time to be able to respond later. However, I would also like to use this speech, because it is about promoting art, to address the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is not present, a few words regarding what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has done at the funeral celebrations during the funeral of the actor Josef Meinrad, namely the interruptions against the FPÖ and against Jörg Haider. It is simply unworthy, unscrupulous and tactless, Mr Cap, to abuse a funeral for party-political agitation. This is a low point in the attacks of the SPÖ against the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this attitude is also not foreign to the Federal Minister. I am thinking of his omissions against the liberals at the Salzburg Festival. However, I was pleased to see that the applause has kept itself very limited. [[Abg. Oillinger: But yours now too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. I think the examples show very impressively that the Socialist Group is based on the principle of the inalienable nature of the cultural resort as an ideology. If you say again, that's a premise, I'll tell you: No, it's the truth. Mrs. Dr. Ursula Paterk, Cultural City Councillor of Vienna, spoke of the fact that the cultural resort is an indispensable place of ideology about which, she has literally expressed herself, she can transport certain things. Ladies and gentlemen! You from SPÖ are not concerned with promoting the artists, you are primarily concerned that you transport your ideology through artists accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6479	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6501	Mr President. High house! I am somehow not quite clear what was actually the message of the previous speaker, who calls himself a cultural speaker of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Oils: What message?]] We wanted to get together here in order to have a very analytical and profound discussion about the art report. He has rather done a self-representation of his own psychostructure and obviously also of the current cultural concept that the FPÖ Group is currently representing here in the house. If you look at the choice of words alone, you have to say: It was no contribution to a truly successful debate. Do you even know what Stalinism is? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There are two ways: Either you want to tell us a certain amount of half-education, or you are unable to estimate what this accusation of Stalinist funding model means. You know that this system has millions of deaths to answer. How can you actually get out of here and call a funding model in a democratic republic a Stalinist support model? [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In any case, it is a huge scandal that you descend so far and work with this termality here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is essentially about the principle debate on how to face innovative art and culture. It is about the principle discussion whether one can take advantage of the problems of acceptance of contemporary art for the purposes that you represent here again and again, or whether one is willing to take into account a liberal model of society and to support contemporary art from a principle of thought. You're not willing to do that. You're not able to do that. For you, everything that is innovation is already suspicious, because you assume that this is something like a state art: the more promotion, the more state artists. This is a totalitarian system that must be combated anyway. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is your basic position, which we should really discuss more precisely. You don't know in your semi-educatedness – and that's the second point – what "state art" really means, or you know it, then it's a huge scandal. You have puddled up in the Cultural Committee when I said that according to your dependence thesis of state art would clearly mean to you: The greater the subsidisation, the more Cretinistic is the respective art hole or the respective artist. So you've huddled up what acidity this is, that I'm accusing you of it. But that is the compelling conclusion! State artists are those who can also be prescribed the aesthetic standards and the art understanding, who say: Aha, I get a subsidy, so I now subscribe to some culture bureaucracy – described by you so badly – that also normizes what I have to produce artistically in the sense of the stategant and the state welfare. You don't think that at all, what you're saying here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I agree with Mr Krüger that he does not think this to the end, but most of you know what they want to say with it. You just want to build a pop and say: This is a rotted system, with which in reality only friends and friends are provided with some loans and benefits. This has nothing to do with art and culture. – That’s what you’re talking about, but in reality you’re obviously talking about something quite different. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold and Abg. Haigermoser.]] I will now quote a possibility of "art understanding": "Art must be the proclaimer of the Blessed and Beautiful and thus the bearer of the natural and healthy." – Can you start with this sentence? How do you find this sentence, Mr. Kultursprecher? – I quote: "If she is this, then there is no sacrifice too great for her, and if she is not, then it is a pity for all that it is necessary to spend. For thus it is not an element of healthyness, and thus of building up and continuing life, but a sign of degeneration and thus of decay." – This is obviously your "cultural understanding"! And I think that it is precisely this 'cultural understanding' that needs to be combated here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It is about the fact that we are able to create a framework so that it does not result in a subordination under the market lobby, but that we create access so that contemporary art can really develop, and that we also allow subcultures. We should be able to enable as many cultures as possible to integrate. There must be a dialogue, because of the subsidy, framework conditions must be created to enable culture to develop. This is a liberal and social model, but this is not a totalitarian model of society, as you obviously want to address it with your authoritarian concepts in your leadership. That's your concept, but not our concept. This concept must be combated here. If you want this polarization, we also carry it out here, but quite openly! Then don't talk about it, but take it. It defines the position of your cultural concept in this regard! You have a treacherous language: They say: "Equalisation", "feudalistic cultural monopoly" and – I quote once again – "stalinistic funding model". And you're always talking about "state artists." – With this, you don’t want to say anything more than that it’s louder paid, not artistic Cretins, who are actually just the running boys of all those who want to flick the blue on the stuff. – This is your simple model! The reinforced variant are your poster examples, with which you can also use for denunizing: They put artists and politicians at the prange and think them, just like you do in your understanding of art and politics. You still haven't said how you found the quote about the "Blessed" and the "Beautiful." How do you think it is? – It's quite acceptable, isn't it? – Do you have any problems? You're not saying no, you're not saying anything! – It also came from Adolf Hitler and was said at the Nuremberg party in 1935. That's why it obviously struck your language.That's why you didn't say: The statement is not so bad at all. – But it is not up to you to confess. But this is obviously the "art" and "culture" understanding you are currently dealing with. I would now like to talk about an aspect which is quite important in connection with the art report. It is not just a question of discussing the principles of support. This art report is a business map of cultural policy! This art report shows where the focus lies and where cultural sites are developed. I believe that in the preface there is a very good and very clear position, that really outstanding cultural events have been described, but all of them are obviously not interesting to you. – But we can’t always hop over fire and hold solstice celebrations and perhaps still promote them through wood deposits, just because you want to. Nor can we bring about a resurgence of the Old German language, just because you want us all to be incomprehensible in this Chamber. – If this is your cultural understanding, then say that!, then put on some horns, so that we know what we are here about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] It is annoyed that you are here under the pseudonym of people's interests against the evil cultural bureaucracy, but in reality you only want to hide what your true goal is in the background. But it's about the goal. We have discussed this in the Committee on Culture and have also given a very detailed opinion on it. I think it is very important to note here, too, that this art report is very comprehensive, that it covers in a very clear way all the support measures and that very precise explanations are contained in them. It is, as I think, really presented in a very good way what is happening in this area. One may differ in one measure or another. One can be of different opinion in one or another. We are not always a party in this respect either. But we have a common basic consensus, namely to make art possible, to create a framework for not interfering, not introducing standards, not interfering and suppressing, and not acting as if it were "state artists". I sometimes have the impression that you have a certain regret that first of all you are not the state, and second, that you cannot determine how to define state art. I have this impression that this attitude sometimes comes out of your mind. I should also like to say this again and again in your other statements and opinions in this area. What surprises me is that we did not discuss the field of mass culture at all. That's something that's quite, very important. They always say: Let us also talk about areas that do not need funding. – It is also the subject of a cultural debate, of course, that we ask ourselves the question of how to deal with these phenomena, which today play a very, very important role in social policy developments. The market presupposes and decides what is successful, and the market also gives the price. This should also be critical, but not excessive, and not out of a high-level position, because this is the holding of mass culture. I think another aspect plays a major role here, namely the whole aspect of the new media. This aspect may not play a role for you, but in general and objective terms it plays a very important role. In this context, the introduction of the new media will also address questions of technology and industry, of new market conditions and of new forms of art. I believe that this is a very, very essential aspect if we are to support and promote this development in the future. This also raises many issues of democracy, such as: Then who has access to these new media? What forms of culture and life will be associated with it? We can grasp the concept of culture much more than is always done, instead of stopping by whether perhaps 37 S are mis Positioned. They come constantly and say: What does that look like from the law? – That was Your first attempt at criminalisation, which you made in the Committee on Culture. They asked: Did you really comply with the law now? – You have said this in the knowledge that the awarding practices are public. All this you know, but always assume that every member of the government, if it is not of the FPÖ, must be a priority with one foot already in the criminal, almost natural, because it is not your party. – This is a style of discussion that brings a form into this cultural debate, that one must say: We obviously need to discuss more precisely not only the content but also the form of the debate. I also have a little bit to say about the way and the style of Members' smoke-callat in this regard. I know. It is the task of Members to act as unpleasantly and critically as possible. However, their statements were almost inquisitorial, as if the IG authors of the Minister and others would have to choose the Board of Directors and sit on the Board of Directors and act there as a troubles shooter. There were some assumptions that I would like to say: You have to tell your club secretary that he should write another paper, because it is really absurd at this level to pretend that if you grant subsidies you would be present at once. This would correspond to the picture that the liberals like to have: Subsidies are granted, but then Commissioner Krüger sits on the board of directors and sees what happens to these subsidies, then Commissioner Krüger sits on the board of directors and writes the minutes, then Commissioner Krüger sits on the board of directors and says: These are the good ones and these are the bad ones, and the bad ones have to get out of the board and get the good ones in. Then the rigid maxels from your connections – tapp, tapp, tapp, tapp, tapp, tapp – and the cultural revolution came into play – of course, the cultural revolution that you mean. It is quite clear what form of cultural revolution you then assumed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] How are you doing, Mr. Head of Parliament? You know it is. You look so thoughtful. They look like someone who's just getting back on the way to form independent thoughts. Sage You finally give this boy your opinion, give them Saures! It can't go on like this! Get on the table at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] It must finally be a front line of reason! – Look, he's getting nervous, he knows it's true, he knows it, he's afraid of you. You should take advantage of this, because you may be able to move something if he reacts so tremblingly. I believe it is really important that we discuss this art report throughout its scope. – They are also part of the culture, I must say that it does not help anything! We really have a considerable cultural range, and in this width you are also included. However, I do not know what fold you hide in which segment of our parliamentary culture. They are the so-called historical inevitability. It was just not to prevent. They have been pushed into this Parliament by some means and have expanded the cultural scope here, in part to our entertainment, in part to our horror. But you will only play this role in any case in a limited time, we will take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6615	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Höbinger-Lehrer. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. Speaking time: ten minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6637	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now believed that Mr Cap will give me real information about this art report. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You have to read it yourself!]] In the beginning, Cap said Dr. Krüger had only spoken Polish nonsense. That's what I thought: Now he'll tell me what's illuminating me. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: There's no such thing as that!]] But unfortunately, his interpretations were only polemic again, only in the other direction. And that's how it is, unfortunately, too often. Madam President of the Art Committee! I allow myself to make a request: If we were to be in the same composition next year in the next cultural report – you don't know whether a new legislative period is coming again or if someone leaves, for example, I don't know – then I would like us to have a little more time for such a work, which has 286 pages, in which some things are interesting and questionable. We must ask ourselves, as opposition as well as as coalition partners, that we perhaps take two afternoons to do so! I know that everything has now been dealt with very briefly, because we have just needed the documents for the plenary. But two hours for such an extensive report is a little bit of a bit. Of course, we can address many questions to the Minister, but this is not pleasant either, but it is much better in the personal discussion. In my opinion, however, from the art report that Mr Cap will certainly not fit, but that does not matter. Unfortunately, I cannot express my concerns in the form of Mr Mag. Gudenus, who would certainly have returned you in a better form. One thing I want to hold right at the beginning: I don't turn against the artists. Not one who is subsidized is told by me. I have to say: If you're given, take it and work with it! I can only address my entire appeal, if there is one, to the supporter, for the following reason: I had the pleasure of being present at the opening of the Bregenzer Festival a long time ago. [[Abg. Leikam: How long has it been, 30 years?]] Whether you can speak of pleasure at this "Fidelio" performance can be disputed. However, I was very surprised that you, Mr Minister – and this will be transferred to what I would like to say to the art report – launched an attack against us liberals in a world-borne opening. You called for a defense. – You hear and marvel: "Gegenwehr"! – This is, I believe, an expression which, according to Mr Cap, should not appear. – However, the Minister has called for resistance against those who have the word "freedom" on the shield, but who are actually in sight. – And you then came to the conclusion that it would be preferable for you if you were wronged, but not helped by ten entitled. - I'll give you the following: This is the way in which you can deal with resources entrusted to you under the budget. I can say one thing: I do not approve of the attack against Mr Artmann. I very much appreciate him as an artist. If you've helped him, it's just your business. Mr Artmann himself is not to be condemned as was done by our side, and I have said so. I always stick to my opinion. Let me now turn to your opening, to the preface to the 1994 art report. I'm surprised, but maybe I shouldn't have. After the preface 1993 and after the opening of the Bregenzer Festival, I should not have been surprised that you see your art understanding in recognizing art alone if it is provocative and taboo. – I think there have already been many – although not all – Tabus injured. But there can also be an art understanding of other ways. It doesn't always have to be a narcissistic overcrowded art understanding, but for me art holds something that makes me happy or sad, something that causes me to cry or affects me. For me, however, art does not necessarily have to be something that expresses itself in certain downfalls. I don't want to deal with the previous things, they don't even care about me anymore. But they say: On behalf of art too, all taboos must be violated in order to achieve social progress. That's where I ask you: Is there nothing we want to keep in tradition? I am not against all progress and against everything new. I'm for everything. But we can also pay attention to the tradition without disregarding the one who confesses to it right up to the last. I just don't understand. There was no one here talking about what was being promoted. I see that the largest chunks, which of course devours a cultural budget and promotions, represent the great theatre or, for example, the Salzburg Festival. You have answered a lot from my question why there was an increase of 49.11 million schilling to 56.15 million schilling and a special construction effort of 5.6 million schilling. You explained the special construction effort. I would like to thank you for taking note of this in the committee. But you did not tell me why the increases from 1993 to 1994 were so extensive. I believe that this is a bit of a gag for some gentlemen, such as Mr Mortier and perhaps Peter Stein, whom I consider to be a director. However, I simply do not understand why he must get 6 million schilling on tantimes for the few words he has changed in the various Schlegel-Teck-Editions of Shakespeare. I don't know if that came from the budget or from elsewhere. I don't care so much either. I mean, though, that if we all have to tighten our sack and take away something from every citizen, even art is a biterl – a trace, not much! – must be reduced. If we all get less, then the art and culture must also be asked a biterl for the cash register! I am sure you will reply to me that the 1996 budget will not be increased at all, and that this will give rise to freezing. – I still have so much to say, but of course I don’t have time because I’m not the first speaker. I would like to say something about the outcome. You will certainly see all Ephraim Kishon as an artist. In his last book "Picasso's Sweet Vengeance", he wrote something that I liked deliciously and which fits a bit into today's concept of art and culture. That's why I don't want to keep this from you. He first quotes from the estate of Picasso, who said: "All paths are open to the intellectual charlatanry. I am only a clown who understood his time and took everything out of the stupidity, laziness, and vanity of his contemporaries." Kishon has defined the problem of modern art on the basis of these words by Picasso as follows: "If Picasso had wanted to, he could have painted like Giotto or Titian, but he didn't want to. That is, he only wanted for so long," – and when you see the early Picasso images, you know what it means – "until he understood the great principle that people do not have their own opinion that they no longer appreciate the craftsmanship that they fall on their knees before anomalies and gimmicks drawn on their hair and imagine that they have become something special by doing so." – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6703	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. Talk time 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6724	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The present art report is impressive evidence of Austrian art promotion, and the Austrian People's Party is committed to this art promotion. It knows, however, that in the present situation for art administration, there is a particular need for legitimacy for the funds spent and therefore the requirement for careful handling of existing resources. A tendency to survive bureaucratic devices, but at the same time to be saved in the creative field, can certainly not find our approval. It is therefore necessary to have a permanent discussion on the distribution of funds, and this is all the more so when the supply of the funds provided by the State for the promotion of art is stagnated or slightly reduced. It must not be that we are faced with numerous institutions – a literature house, a film house, the rose hill, at least important institutions – and suddenly the situation arises that there is no money left for art itself, because the organizational equipment is too expensive. In an interview with the Austrian Press Agency, Federal Minister Scholten made his first appearance. In January 1996, I quote: "In the area of organisations, there are certainly possibilities for rationalisation." In this interview he also speaks of a re-evaluation of the various also bureaucratic organizations, and Federal Minister Scholten is right when, in the same interview, he mentions that in Austria too little is done for the new media in art. He himself stresses that there is an interesting and internationally valid scene that has the disadvantage of sitting in the traditional support system between the armchairs. I am all the more surprised by the opinion of the Minister in the Committee if, for example, he now withdraws from the IG authors or at the Austrian Film Commission to the formal position, which was simply that the subsidies would be properly charged. Unfortunately, the Committee was no longer talking about evaluation and monitoring, which he spoke about in the interview with the Austrian Press Agency. However, we believe that, on behalf of the art and on behalf of the artists and their right to promote, it is very likely that measures will have to be taken for a loan management. That you cannot put them in an independent association yourself, Mr Minister, is quite understandable. I believe, however, that this is an essential principle in all the promotions that there is a low administrative cost to be taken into account, in favour of a higher share of project funding. Let me come to a second point: Especially in the field of young artists – and this becomes particularly evident at the art universities – it appears that we have young people's problems. There are too few highly qualified young artists at universities, especially in music. The Austrian new recordings at the Academy can be counted at one hand. Art promotion begins in the area of school and preschool. Although the art report points out that the lack of competence in this field cannot be promoted, I think that the 600 000 S declared for this purpose is very small. It would be important to invest in elementary school and preschool. It would be important to promote projects. A total of only three projects in this area are listed in the Kunstreport. It would certainly be a challenge, Mr Minister, to promote young people's work from the funds of the art budget and to make gift scholarships and corresponding funds available for competitions and projects. Another point concerns the flexibility of outsourced institutions. It seems essential to us to increase this flexibility of outsourced institutions. Especially in some outsourced institutions, which should actually be there to operate offensive cultural management beyond the Ministry's camera list, has now included every presidential section of a ministry to honor sufficient bureaucracy. The best example of this is the Austrian Film Institute under its well-deserved director Mag. Schedl. We believe that the directors of the outsourced institutions – beyond the budget allocated to them by the Ministry – should and could raise funding for sponsors. It is only a third-party funding for the institutions outsourced, analogous to the third-party funding, as it has already become a matter of course in science. Now a few words about the art curators. Minister! Even in the art advisory board of the Ministry of Science, Research and Art, the curators are increasingly controversial. With one of the two curators, one cannot resist the impression that he sometimes organizes his own career more than the actual task of invigorating the art scene. The subsidy of numerous own projects speaks for itself – according to the motto: The curator pays for projects where he himself curates – a classic case of incompatibility! Even colleagues from the art scene and gallerists call this intolerable. There, Mr Minister, would be a job critique and a task review. In short to the advisory councils, Minister: The advisory committees associated with the institutions of art promotion have one thing in common: They're all wimpy. The long-term member of the Music Advisory Council, Gunter Schneider, pointed out in a report on his advisory activity in the previous art report that he is the only non-winner in the Music Advisory Council, and noted that the weak quantitative presence of the federal states in the funding volume is not based on a negative attitude of the Music Advisory Council or the Federal Ministry of Education and Art, but on many occasions that far too few affected people in the federal states, with a declining tendency towards the West, know that and where they could find support for their projects. There is obviously an information deficit to be resolved. A further point: The advisory councils – I did not do it to look through the names – are mostly man-made, which very often leads to the promotion of art to a large extent of male artists and to the disadvantage of female artists. I don't want to talk about masculinity and femininity in art right now. However, in my time as a member of the Vienna Municipal Council and as a member of the Cultural Committee there, I have repeatedly insisted that women should also be given an appropriate proportion of the advisory meetings in the new composition of councils, so as to ensure that such representation is ensured. It would be interesting to know, Mr Minister, whether there have been activities on the issue of the sexual distribution of the Advisory Council members, and whether measures are planned to involve advisory members from the federal states more closely. In his APA interview, Federal Minister Scholten also refers to the report of the Bundestheater. January and praise their economic leadership. This may well be justified, but should not conceal the fact that they still take the largest pieces in the cultural budget. The partial right now sought by the Bundestheater could well lead to a reduction in the federal subsidies in this area. However, I think it is unsustainable, Mr Federal Minister, that a member of this House, Mr Morak, was accused last year by the Secretary-General of the Bundestheater in an interview with a newspaper to a degree that does not only miss the propriety, but also the necessary respect for the Members of this House. At the time, he called Morak, in his capacity as a politician, a miserable figure. He said he was so stupid that he didn't know what he was bragging about, and he was infamed, obnoxious, and stupid. Whoever now believes that these derailments would have been corrected, which would have been desired – Mr. Secretary-General Springer said in an interview with the same newspaper in October, he is just trying to fix this matter like adult people, he is willing to get it from the table – he is taught a better person. The Secretary-General is in no way prepared to do so, but in the meantime, in the pending proceedings, he has indicated that he is willing to take up the proof of truth. Mr Minister, this is an unsustainable situation for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! The consent of the ÖVP to the 1994 art report represents an advance of confidence in a willingness to reform in the promotion of art. That means: Not polarization is to be achieved with art promotion, but acceptance. This also means that there must be a willingness to make structural reforms in the art administration, which is not a taboo. Transparency, slim management, efficiency and promotion of young people's work should be the priority criteria for promoting art. Finally, it should be noted that, especially at a time when there are no increases in the art budget, the existing resources need to be used in the most efficient way in order to achieve successful art promotion in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6818	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6840	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debates of the FPÖ are characterised by a common emphasis: We appreciate the artists this way, but – and I now interpret – why do they need so much money?, or: Why does the artist, who is so appreciated anyway, have to get money? I'd invite you: Tell your dentist once! Tell him you appreciate him as a doctor, but you don't understand why you should pay his bills. Tell him that before treatment. And then I would like to see how bravely this duality will be maintained. I thought it was just a logical system, if it is always emphasized that the artists are so valued, but at the same time criticised, as backboneless as being unprincipled, as uncompromising and corrupt they are de facto. I believe that this is actually different. I have tried very well to find out between the lines that today's contributions have been more balanced. But in fact, I think, we are different from the individual artist. There are two attitudes towards each other: One means respect for the Council of Repatriation, before the compromiselessness, before the individual, before the very independent, sometimes evenly lonely acting of the artists, but in principle once respect for the backbone. On the other hand, there is an attitude, which means: Artists are purchaseable, backboneless, yes de facto corrupt – because that would be the result of that – blackmailers who can still pay for their own inability by the state. Then: If it is true that public funds at the same time make speechless and careless, if it is true that the fact that one is politically committed at the same time means that one has become completely worthless and meaningless in his actual subject, namely artistic work, and if it is true that any participation in this country's social debate would immediately lead to qualitylessness, then the result would be that in the artists we have a group of, as said, backboneless, uncompromising, de facto corrupt people before us. I deny that to the most vehement. If it were so – and it is now thanks to God anything other than that – that all these attitudes actually take place against this background you describe, then we could probably agree on a simple point – in this point we will probably find ourselves: If Mr Zinggl and Mrs Jelinek and Mr Pakesch criticise structures in this country, including public art funding, I respect this, I am going to deal with it and would never and never at all come to the idea that this would have any influence on their de facto right to recognition and thus also on honour and therefore on money. No one will be able to find a case in which anyone, such as those mentioned above – Mr Pakesh is not concerned at the moment because he is active in Switzerland, but let us take Mr Zinggl and Mrs Jelinek – would have criticized the public art financing system and I would have come to say the idea: Well, it's actually bad when the money gets. On the other hand, if Upper Austrian cultural initiatives criticize FPÖ, they become the regular guest of each cultural debate and the parade of what to prevent. If in the election campaign artists take party and express themselves publicly, then this is, so to speak, the thoughtful corruption. When artists within the framework of public-law institutions – I don’t know if the Lord Dor is sitting in the board of trustees, but perhaps it's even true – they lose every right to respect, because they are, so to speak, the incarnation of inconsistency and so on and so on. I believe that there are really two very basic positions that can be understood by both – I am a fanatical supporter of the one system – against each other. One point of view is: Criticism must not only be possible, but must not be ponized. And the second system means: If a person expresses himself critically, he should at least lose any claim for money. That is, as it were, the slightest form of ponization you should begin, if not even harder. I now stand for a system of openness. On this point I have to criticise: Unfortunately, I don't know who said it anymore, but it fell down the quote, I would have said that only taboo injuries make sense. I have literally said: Taboo violations are a challenge that must be accepted by society. So I'm asking to approve of at least a small amount of understanding. I don't want to get into the stupid part of this. As has been said, two systems are opposed to each other: the system of respect and the system of de facto contempt. I believe that we can also agree on this as a dividing line in this debate. I would like to address a few other points very briefly, as far as this is possible at the speed here. I am very glad that we are debating tax opportunities to promote art. I myself am one who often complains that the private market is too little trained in many sectors. I have little doubt that by means of tax promotion measures this market can be produced, because I cannot quite imagine from the motive of the individual that someone says: I would be interested in art and also spend money on it, but since I can't put it off the tax, I don't. Maybe he'll make it less. But in principle I am very glad that we are having this debate and we are also intensifying it. Assigned: At the moment, it is probably not exactly the best time to negotiate fiscal benefits. But we should not lose sight of this point. So the promotion of the private market is a measure that is very important to me. A support monopoly of the federal government is now not at all detectable. Over time, thanks to God, the federal states – also the city of Vienna, all the Austrian federal states – have, for the most part, used highly respectable amounts to finance art in their budgets. In addition: Most of the examples mentioned here are those we finance together with the federal states in which these organisations are located. By the way, I don't put on a personal scale at all, because it always assumes that you sit somewhere late at night, so to speak, showing yourself ten artists and saying: He gets something, he gets nothing, he gets something, he gets nothing. That's not how this system is going to happen. I believe that these different attitudes can be derived from what I have described earlier. My system just doesn't play out. I also absolutely dispute the wording that more subsidies are more dependent on the proverb – I quote –: "Whose bread I eat, the song I sing" draw after it, because that underlies the recklessness that I don't put artists under. This attitude is also one that, I think, separates us very clearly. Besides, I didn't write a single chain letter. I have worked actively in the election campaign and see no fault in it at all. In fact, I see no mistake at all in the fact that individual artists have engaged in the election campaign. There are also enough artists who are very critical of me – even very critical of the party. They certainly did not suffer any damage from it. I also thought such a system was absurd and worth fighting with a lot of energy. But it is not true that a person can and will not be able to buy his or her own opinion through public money. I have already mentioned the conflicts of interest of Mr Milo Dor. I see, in the fact that he is active in a free profession, that there is really no conflict of interest at all. You can say that he has a collision that he is also very active as a writer and politically. He's just with the IG authors, he's obviously in the board of trustees. It only has to describe to me someone what one must not be, which leads to saying: Well, if he is, he can't be the other one. So his electorate won't be able to agree with him either. Not his political commitment either. The fact that the IG authors as a professional representative elected him chairman is probably their right. And he's sitting in the ORF board, I suppose, not illegal. Furthermore, he is a very valuable and very important writer for our country, to whom we – and again at the starting point – owe respect rather than to the category of the backbones immediately. It is the same with the Upper Austrian Cultural Initiative platform. Yes, they express themselves politically. There are other platforms that express themselves politically in such a way as to reduce my opinion. Only: What is the reaction? So we didn't delete the subsidy. They constantly demand that they delete the others. I'm against it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, only so small technical corrections: As far as I understand it correctly, you have noticed that the Federal Chancellor has received little applause for his speech at the funeral ceremony for Josef Meinrad. I can only be sure of the correctness of the... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The speech in Salzburg!]] Ah, I thought you meant it. So the applause pleased me, and it was thanks to all those who gave me applause. The German chancellor's speech at the Burgtheater on the occasion of the funeral celebration for Josef Meinrad was not only important, but also quite self-evidently, in a place towards a man who was trying very hard to stress that in this country we will not allow restrictions on what artistic works produce. It seems that the deceased should not be exaggerated as witnesses of their own opinions, but I believe that without a risk of being able to say that Joseph Meinrad would not have been able to give a witness to a thought-restricting system. To Bregenzer transmission: It is very nice, ladies and gentlemen, if you consider them to be transferred worldwide, but we have a different concept of the world. To tradition: It is often criticized that so-called traditional art promotion organisations have a traditionally very high share. It is not possible, I believe, to conclude from this report that we are mistreated traditional organizations or organizations dealing with traditional art. Furthermore, I now think that this term is quite unclean, because what is understood by traditional art is often again criticized in its reproduction very time-related, because what is understood as traditional art often disturbs in interpretation precisely those who like to appeal to traditional art. So I think that this contrast is a far-reaching one anyway. A brief comment on Mrs Rauch-Kallat's comments: I am very much in favour of an evaluation. In the case of an independent professional association, however, I would argue with all caution. I said in committee that the correctness of the accounts is essential for subsidies. I thought it strange – let me say so – when we consider to evaluate from the ministry the large number of independent professional organizations according to their quality, which they have in the sense of their association, namely the representation of the interests of their members. What did that mean in the negative case when we came to the conclusion that a certain organization does not do a good job? – That was probably not to say that we are giving up our professional representation, and that we are making work impossible for them, not at all. I think that we simply have to be careful – let me say so – in both directions: in the control, but also in every attempt – which I would like to hold back – to interfere in the activities of professional representatives. Otherwise, it looks like the AFC. This is an organization which is financed very substantially by several third-party funds, i.e. by means of the economy. It is a matter of course that one has to check whether it is doing its job well. If so, if no, it must either change or not exist. But, as I said, I would be very careful in the case of professional representations. I conduct the music-resurrection discussion with passion. However, I have noticed one thing, and I think that we should, as it were, find ourselves on the bottom of the real problem: Literally until my last day as Minister of Education – in the previous year; since this discussion has already become virulent, conspicuous and present – the argument of the ÖVP was about as follows: The music universities are great – I am now exaggerating linguistically – if only these damn schools would finally do something! – It didn’t even take a week when I changed from the Minister of Education to the Minister of Science, and at one time this turned out to be the other, and they said: So these schools do great work if only this damn college were finally promoted more! Probably everyone should help. Furthermore, I do not wish you the hand that would make it possible for you to count the new recordings to her. I don't want that to happen to you physically, God forbid. – As I said, at the AFC I am ready for any evaluation. One thing is not possible: no polarization, but, as you have said, destabilizations must be possible. – That’s what polarizes. I also believe that we should find ourselves on a fundamental basis, i.e. that polarization does not mean loss of dispute culture, without perhaps then and when even the gain of dispute culture, if only we were to deal with the Poles of polarization more properly. I think that in this sense it is absolutely all right, even if we, like Mr Krüger and I, represent very different positions. We naturally have to respect this and deal with it. That's polarization! I would never resist that this is happening. I represent my position and fight for her. I'm part of this polarization, as it were. I believe that in Austria, perhaps in the debate on art, we should address this concern that something could polarize, because, as long as we – I now risk a strange word – are dealing with it, there is nothing bad about it. I would not, as it were, be afraid of this conflict. We should consider only the literal forms of dealing with this conflict and be careful in this regard. As far as the discussion with Mr Morak is concerned, I have worked at the time to ensure that it meets and becomes one - I don't know if one can say "reconciling"; but yes, let's stick to it - the form of dealing that can be shared. I believe that this opportunity has not yet been lost. Maybe they both need a bit of a back. I'd like to be ready on my side to do it. I do not think that this form of discussion is good either, I would like to add that here. Last but not least: With one point you will meet me, if you tell me that we have not balanced the advisory committees in relation to the parity of the participating women and men and also not balanced in terms of the representation of the federal states. In all the impurity of the system and in all probability that if one goes through this now 1 : 1 one is likely to come to individual advisory councils, where these parities are not correct and not balanced, I think, without a risk of saying that there is no public support system so much to ensure that there is a proper balanced representation of women that there is no funding system so much to achieve regional balance through relatively rapid changes in Council memberships. So if you say, Keep going this way, I'll tell you. If you say, Start!, I say: We did that a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6892	I now give the floor to Mrs Preisinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, I must I would point out that I must interrupt you at 4 p.m. in order to deal with the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6914	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Of course I could have said now: I'm about to give up my speech and I'm going to repeat it at a later hour. But I have to take the opportunity for these few minutes to say the following: If you think that you do not dare to be stupid, I recommend this sentence, Mr Minister, to you. You quoted here and also mentioned by us to read through more precisely. It says: "Only in the course of time does it come to mind that precisely this abstinence, these taboo violations, is a challenge that society must accept." – The challenge will not be accepted or will have to be accepted, but the taboo violations, otherwise it would be grammatically different. Maybe it's better to take a closer look and be more careful with the statements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Prefaces like this are usually not read. However, in the present case of the art report, as at the last time, 1993, it is worth looking at more closely. The criticism of the recent years of the art report in general, in its design, is obviously not seen as an incentive for improvement, Mr Federal Minister, but as an unsustainable accusation. Better legibility of the report and greater transparency are seen as a contradiction and the demand in this direction is literally qualified as "inserious", according to the motto: Criticism is undesirable. That criticism is also undesirable in other respects, in general criticism of cultural policy, we have seen it several times. There is talk of a virulent neoconservatism, of an obsolete cultural ideology, with the word "culture" markedly placed in brackets. Criticism is aborted and devalued as a polemic. So culture is that, Mr Federal Minister, if I really understand what we have to consider as such. And one is in danger of being labeled an enemy of culture if one has different ideas from those to which we are stopped incessantly. The term "Freedom of Art", which is used again and again and to which I fully agree, is often brought to the meeting to undermine freedom of expression. I ask you: Does not cultural freedom mean having its own cultural concept and, accordingly, having a different opinion? – For me, these are two things that are directly and inseparably connected. But there are also prominent representatives who have thought about these things, such as Dr. Thomas Chorherr in the "Press". I can literally quote him here: "Can everyone choose their cultural concept without being qualified as a banaus, or are all who do not like Franz Xaver Kroetz and his "drug" to find illiberal and in the worst case in the right corner?" – In other words, he concludes that "a culturally hostile climate is weathered everywhere where culturally forced happiness does not want to be accepted." – He even speaks of "cultural terrorism". Finally, something about taboo injuries. If you look at the art report, you really find it a special example of granting subsidies. In fact, under the chapter "Gallery Funding", you will find a subsidy of 100 000 s to the Krinzinger Gallery, for the exhibition "Körpernah". This is of course nothing special when you first look at it. On closer consideration and questioning of what it is all about, one comes to realize that it was an exhibition held by the association of the friends of the Galerie Krinzinger in 1994, where, among other things, important works by activists and also works by Otto Mühl were exhibited, the artist and local founder, who was sentenced to seven years in prison because of fornication with minors and rape. But it's not yet. I don't want to evaluate Otto Mühl's artistic person now, it's not about that. Rather, it is about the fact that 150 000 S were loosened by the municipality of Vienna and supported by the Federal Government for an exhibition that pursued the purpose of drawing financial capital out of this judgment. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: It's 4:00!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Hello! Stop it!]] I remember, if I may be able to carry out a short time, the interview by Dr. Ursula Krinzinger in the magazine "Art", issue 12/91, in which she herself says that she has a commercial interest in it, now that this judgment has been passed. She can't defend her phone calls and she wants to start her business. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] - Can I say a final sentence?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6968	Ladies and gentlemen, please, if it is the last sentence, otherwise you will have to continue afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e6983	It comes to the conclusion. In conclusion, therefore, I think that it is really objectionable and a misguided grant of subsidies, with the suffering of children and on the back of the people concerned, and to subsidise the whole with public funds and with taxpayers' money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is what we are saying, and that is what I am saying: No!, also to the danger of being qualified by any one of you as a cultural banana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7022	I am now interrupting the debate on the 1994 art report. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Herbert Scheibner and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Defence on defects in Austrian security policy (182/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7055	We now come to the urgent treatment of Question 182/J. In the meantime, it has been distributed to all Members so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7224	I call Mr Scheibner to speak as the first questioner to justify the urgent question, and I would point out that under the Rules of Procedure his speech should not be more than 40 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7248	Thank you, Mr President. – Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! It has almost become a ritual that if we have legitimately tabled urgent questions here in Parliament, then immediately speakers of the other political groups – unfortunately not only the government groups but also the other, the smaller opposition groups – come out here and ask the question whether this question is really of such urgency as to be able to put the question differently. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to propose to all the speakers who come to me – Mr Moser, you too will have the opportunity to explain your caprioles that you have hit here in recent times: I believe that the urgency of this question, namely the urgency of the problem of our security policy in Austria, cannot be doubted at all today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not only has international development shown this, not only the situation of the Austrian federal army – for many months and years we have criticized it – shows this urgency. Not only is the current debate on government formation, which we can now pursue in the newspapers, shows this urgency, but also a very up-to-date situation, which should actually encourage us all to think strongly. A few days ago, we were informed of the publication of a statement by a member of the government, not of any member of the government, but of the Minister of the Interior, who published his theses on the future of the defence of the state. At first glance one could say: Well, he has just explained his ideas for abolishing military service – you can discuss it, perhaps that would make sense – once. But if you deal more precisely with these these theses, you only notice whose mind child is expressed here and what he really wants to do with these these theses. He not only wants to abolish the general obligation of military service, but above all, according to These 2, he wants to abolish the federal army. He wants to abolish the military defence of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Very dangerous!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that has not yet been done in this Second Republic. Federal Minister Fassleven! You might know better. Has there ever been a minister or an interior minister in this Second Republic who doubts this important institution, which is a fundamental festival of Austrian security, a fundamental feast of the Austrian state in such a way? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There can only be protested with all power and with all the means available to us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this thesis, he not only demanded the abolition of the federal army, but also all around he condoned all soldiers as alcoholics. He meant that the basic defenses were all annoying anyway, they disturbed the quiet operation in the German army, and one would be glad if there were no groundmen at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really unworthy of a minister of this Republic! And he has even confirmed these these theses. I hear that yesterday, at an event of the Federal Socialist Academics, he also called into question the comprehensive national defence, which is again a pillar of our constitution. If we already abolish the military defence of the country – after all, all that is connected with national defence is awfully extremist and right – then we will do away with everything that might run around in Austria in uniform and with weapons, perhaps disturbing these left-wing theses of the Minister. Federal Minister Fassleven! They expressed it very clearly in the "press hour". You said: These statements are irresponsible and dangerous to the state. . I fully agree with your insight and also with the insight of Mr Maitz or Mr Khol. These statements are dangerous to the state and unresponsible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I agree with Mr Khol – rarely, but still! – also in another criticism and other assessment, which he said earlier, is consistent with his statement of 24. October, when he described ministers like Staribacher – who is now gone – but also Caspar One as a danger to this country. He, the clubman of the Austrian People's Party, is still on the 14th. December 1995 – that is not so long ago – means: If you introduce us to Vrannitzky, Staribacher and One, there will be no ÖVP in this government. Federal Minister Fassleven! Vrannitzky and One are still in the government, and above all, One has now confirmed by his statements what ideology he attaches to. They said, "at risk of state", Khol said: No government with these people! Federal Minister! Today, we are expecting information on what the future government will look like, which may be available to you as Minister of Defence. How are you going to deal with these people? How will this promise, given by the Austrian People's Party, be fulfilled? What measures are you going to take so that these people will no longer be in the future Federal Government? – We also expect an information about this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It is not a question of saying: It is not a question of whether or not Vrannitzky, but rather of having the principle of unanimity in the Council of Ministers, especially with regard to questions of national defence. A minister can, with his veto, block any initiative – Mr. Federal Minister – you will hopefully also set some in the next time. In the case of such statements by Minister One, it is likely that he will not in any case accept any initiatives that would benefit the German army. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! We'll see what time will bring and whether you'll fall over again because you say: Mainly, we are in the government, essentially, we can still hold our positions of power. That is what we are talking about before the elections and we are doing a little bit of pressure and seeing that we are showing a little strength on the outside. Afterwards, when it comes to positions, all this is forgotten again, and we are re-entering a cooperation with the people we criticised. - We'll see. The population will see it. In the end, you have the responsibility to bear. Ladies and gentlemen! These statements by the Minister of the Interior show very clearly how security policy is being discussed in this country. Federal Minister! We have not succeeded in discussing properly, even here in Parliament, the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, the issues of the common foreign and security policy, the future of our national defence, which is required by these European initiatives. There was a survey last year, which was led by the government very lustlessly, where we were allowed to ask questions, but only to get ludicrous answers, and where, as a Member of Parliament, we did not even have the opportunity to ask additional questions. The whole thing was over in three hours. – That was the Austrian Parliament’s contribution to this important Intergovernmental Conference. We are now faced with important new requirements in the field of security policy. This applies especially to Austria, which is in a geopolitically so sensitive situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The European security structure is changing, which requires flexibility and elan. Federal Minister! Elan and flexibility are now required, not to wait, watch and see if something moves on us from outside. After the collapse of the communist eastern block, we all – and I believe that we all agree – have hoped that now an age of peace and freedom will break out in Europe. These hopes have only been destroyed too soon. Although the risk potential of the great conflict between the two blocks of power has been ended, this danger potential has been replaced by an even greater risk, with a large number of regional conflicts which have now become possible after the decommissioning of the eastern block. These are led with a brutality, which was hardly foreseeable by anyone. International studies predict about 30 heatherds here in Europe. About half of these concern directly Austrian interests. Let us take, for example, the situation in Russia, Mr Moser, because you shake your head: Can you guarantee us with your defence-political knowledge that Russia will continue to move on the path of democracy, and if no, tell us what requirements would result from it and what impact this would have on our security policy? . I would just like to remind you that even President Yeltzin, who still has all our hopes, said in the course of the discussion on NATO enlargement, warns against this Easter enlargement, because then a flame of war would come over Europe again. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an open threat of war by a stateman from Russia, who is certainly not negated. The situation there is completely open. The state community looks anxiously at Moscow. No one knows what danger potential can result from there. Nevertheless, all states have – all states except Austria! – respond to the new requirements in Europe. Finland, for example, has already terminated the Treaty with that State in 1990, after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Most of the Eastern Bloc States want to protect against Russia in NATO, and the Western states have been discussing for years a reorganisation of European security policy. Austria has responded very late and inadequately to this situation. Federal Minister! Only one has already recognized the signs of the time in 1990, namely our clubman and Federal Partyist Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Who else?- Oh, my God!]] I should like to remind you of this – and this must be said once, Mr President! –: He was the first to say after the collapse of the eastern block: We are now in a new era, we must rethink our security policy, and he has put neutrality first, Mr Maitz. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Fassleven!]] Mr Maitz. But what was the result then? – A storm of indignation has broken in upon him and upon the liberals. That's what they said: That's dangerous to the state – that's exactly what the statements were – that's national treason, that's constitutional breach, that's not responsible! – Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, Jörg Haider was accused of all these things: Instinctlessness, evil propaganda, dangerous brewing of radical ideas. All because a statesman here in Austria has correctly recognized the signs of the time! Ladies and gentlemen! If we had already set the course right at that time, as Dr. Haider had already demanded, we would not be the final light in European security policy today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, we have a problem in the population because of these failures. The population has believed to you, the Federal Government, that in principle everything can remain the same as before, according to the motto: We were always neutral, we will also remain neutral, that is our security guarantee. The SPÖ is a clear line. I think she's wrong, but she's clear. With you, Minister of State Fassleven, I am not quite sure. That's what it said once: Well, we need to discuss participation in security systems. Another time you want to redefine neutrality. Recently, it has been said that you want to make a law of solidarity which means that we are no longer neutral within the European Union, but very well on the outside. Federal Minister! That's really nonsense. This is nonsense as long as one sees neutrality as what it should be: a security-political, international instrument that should lead to our security being guaranteed. What is the neutrality with those countries that are not in the EU? What's that supposed to mean, ladies and gentlemen? – Of course, neutrality has had a great historical significance for Austria. It was a condition for the State Treaty, and it was an important goal definition in the period of the Cold War when Austria was buffered between the two powers. But thank God she never had to take the proof of truth to see if it could have really guaranteed us this security that we all expected of her. Mr Wabl! The march plans of the Warsaw Pact show the opposite. But, Minister of State: What is it like with this function now? What about the function of serious neutrality? . I do not want to talk about the requirements with overflight permits and these things now, because you can define everything around, but a principle of serious neutrality, which you must maintain according to your line, namely neutrality policy. Neutrality policy means that we must also be neutral towards any potential conflict party in times of peace. We must also signal in times of peace that we will not participate in any conflict and will not take part in any party. Federal Minister! How is this to be implemented without completely saying goodbye to the Western community? It says: Equal treatment for all opponents. What would that mean – equal treatment for all the parties to the conflict – in the former Yugoslavia? – Above all, this never protects us against aggressors who are interested in attacking the integrity of Austria. This is completely absurd, but it must also be admitted by you. Of course, one can also understand neutrality as isolation, namely, saying: We want to organise our security policy on our own so that we do not have to commit ourselves to others. That would be a possibility, for example, Mr. Federal Minister! I don't think it makes sense because it's expensive. This would mean that we should also finance the whole potential of deterrence ourselves, such as Switzerland. It would also be completely absurd to build a giant army alone, which could deal with all of this. Federal Minister! So I'm excited how you're going to explain this to me today. I believe that in security policy, the duty of the hour should be to cooperate with other states for a common European security policy. This is similar to an insurance: If you want to save yourself from a damage, you have two basic options: Either you save yourself so much money that you can pay for the damage alone, or you pay in a checkout together with all the other members, on the basis of which you can give the security to each individual member together. – That, I believe, is the way of the future, and you should finally join us, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria, unfortunately, goes its own way, not to the serious neutrality – in isolation, its own national defense – nor to the second way, which would be the most useful for us, namely cooperation with other states, but the third way: neglecting its own national defence, not cooperation with other states, that is, the path of expectation, observation and hope that nothing will happen. – Minister of State! That's not responsible! As Minister of Defense, you have the responsibility to correct this, and we will not leave you out of the drawing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! It is also important to be honest here when it comes to which partners, which defence organisations are currently in place in Europe. It's easy: We all now have observer status, we can all sit in the last row and listen to states such as Moldova, like Russia, like Albania, like Romania as equal partners have right of application and right of speech. We can listen to what these states are discussing in the NATO General Assembly. But here we hear at least what direction it is going in. And all the experts tell us that not only in the present, but also in the future NATO will be the only functioning defence alliance in Europe, and that the Western European Union – that would certainly be an approach – is to become a European arm within NATO or together with NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We do not need to talk about this here, NATO or WEU, because one will not go without the other. Finally, put in place the necessary measures to ensure that Austria comes under this protective protection of a common defence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austria is also going another way here, as was the case with the IFOR, Federal Minister. In principle: Of course, Austria must contribute to such joint initiatives. But what are we doing? – Austria assumes the obligations of such cooperation, namely participation, even if you allow me to make this remark, poorly prepared only from the time when one has to get the device, click the device together, and borrow the helmets from other armies or suddenly buy up. - Excuse me? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We bought them!]] Aha! They bought it, wonderful. All right, let's stay right there. Now I ask you, Mr Maitz: Why have our troops in Bosnia now got the new helmets with tiredness and need, while the soldiers in Austria still have this helmet here, which I of course do not put on, but which I show here? [[The speaker shows a steel helmet]] That's the helmet that our groundmen wear. This helmet is a model – he has world war experience! – from the Second World War, which was later developed and used in the Korean War. The Austrian soldier carries this helmet if he is to fulfil his task of defending the Austrian borders and the security of our country. Federal Minister! They have admitted that our soldiers are inadequately equipped. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He belongs to the Hegeschichterliche Museum!]] Now I ask you: Since 1985 we have been trying to obtain the helmet that has now been purchased for the IFOR troops, also for our soldiers in Austria. Why has it not been possible since 1985 to provide our soldiers with this basic equipment, which can save life in a serious way? That should not be a problem. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have also not informed us correctly about the costs of the IFOR deployment. What is the cost of this commitment, in which we participate, and in which we do good? Our soldiers are well trained. Our soldiers show a high level of commitment, and we have seen this also with all the other UN missions. But they have provided this commitment and these good services not because of this infrastructure and the support given to them, but despite these catastrophic conditions under which they have to provide this service. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Austria needs a security policy that brings our country with all its obligations, but also with all its rights under the shield of the Western defence structures. But we also need full support for our federal army, which, as in the past, will probably be an indispensable guarantee of the security of our country in the future. Federal Minister! The government has also neglected this important institution. I know that you are good will, that you have good ideas. But the question is: How can this be implemented? The Federal Army complains of the lack of political support. It rightly complains of financial hunger, ladies and gentlemen. For years you have reduced the national defence budget in proportion. They have done nothing to ensure that, after Luxembourg, Austria is the absolute final light in Europe when it comes to defence expenditure. According to Luxembourg, Austria is the country that has the least left for the proper equipment of its army. 6 S per day each Austrian applies for the defence of the state. Federal Minister! It is clear that it is difficult in savings-package times to get extra money. But the German army does not suffer from the current savings package, but it suffers from the savings packages you have always ordered this army in recent years. There was one savings budget after another! The German army is fighting with the failure of the past. The army has a museum mature equipment, Mr. Federal Minister! What it looks like, the heavy device you didn't allow it to be on 26. October at the parade of the population? 25 years old, 30 years old is this device. The battle tank we have, the hanging out of our mechanized force, the M-60 A 3, is now being used in its basic configuration in America to build a new atoll before New York. There one has thrown or pushed these tanks into the sea, and now an atoll is to be created. – I know our tank has increased to battle, but the basic configuration is the same. With this tank, our soldiers are supposed to defend the Austrian borders. Federal Minister! With regard to the interceptors: What was that then for a disgraceful discussion about the purchase of the interception hunters Draken? But in 1991 all those who had made mistrusts against their own ministers at the time praised when the Draken protected our border – but with a cannon that would not at all have been able to give real protection, but that was only noticed by the way. With regard to Draken – you know that very well – it was planned that we would receive the successor model this year. ==References== This year, the guarantee agreement with SAAB expired. In 1998, Sweden will put the last Dragons out of service. Then Austria will have the privilege of having this 30-year-old aircraft serving its army as the only country in the world. We have not heard anything about how the procurement process should continue. The same is true of the bicycle tanks, Mr. Federal Minister. Now one has gone through to organize the wheel tanks for the UN use. Again: For foreign use the device is provided, but for their own people they do not have it, there the soldiers are transported by trucks and by buses. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fasslevend: Bullshit!]] You're saying nonsense. You will probably see all of this only on military visits, as recently at a anniversary celebration, where you will be able to make the only wheel tank available to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you might need to find out what that looks like in reality. These are the things to be criticized here. - And if we're already on the IFOR mission: How did these good trucks come from? They've been taken out of the force, out of the deployment organization. Federal Minister! What do we have with us in Austria? – We have these also 30-year-old Steyr trucks, where the damage to the stand is so great that we no longer know how to move these vehicles. These want They are now retrofitting, and the price of this retrofitting is almost as high as the re-purchasing of such trucks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You need to manage a museum, Minister!]] This cannot really be a sense of a proper defence policy! Federal Minister! I know you are also a prisoner of the budget. Mr Maitz, who is now shaking his head again, has the solution. He offered a solution. He said we're not going to put that in the budget. Therefore, from 1998 onwards, a separate procurement programme with its own budget will be set up. Mr Maitz. You know the need for arms as well as I do, from news reports, because it's a "secret paper". It is true that, as a Member of this Republic, we cannot officially know the 10-year programme of procurement. This is also a facet in the national defence policy, Minister of State. But we've been informed from the newspapers and we've been told about people who've got collars and who're telling us about the problems. Mr Maitz. In this programme, financing needs have been maintained, i.e. 120 billion schilling over the next ten years. But I also know that this sum is increasing every day, because every day we do not make a procurement, the need for this funding will be increased. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you, Mr Maitz: If the government does not take advantage of it today, where does it intend to bring this 120 billion schilling back in 1998? This is really a question you have to answer here. Or you can also move the problems out there, according to the motto: Let us try to flick what is to be done, even if at the end of the day everything is at the same time ready for recovery, and we do not know where to get the funds. Federal Minister! Similarly, it looks like the motivation of the staff. They have cut overtime due to the last savings budget, which is overtime for a staff embedded in a civil service law that is totally unacceptable to take account of the requirements of a modern army. This overtime has caused exercises to take place only between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. At 4 p.m., the exercise will be terminated or interrupted – this is the case at the last MILAK degree exercise. The basic soldiers, the soldiers involved, must either remain in the arches or be led into their quarters because the trainers and officers have no overtime quotas. Federal Minister! Thank God there are so many idealists who say: It is absurd for us now to stop the exercise in the middle of the fight, go home and leave our soldiers there, we continue on a voluntary basis. But this cannot be the sense of a military service right and of your army budget, that it depends on the good will of the trainers and the officers, whether a proper service operation works. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What about the basic army? – In the military division, they have presented New 34 000 men as a minimum requirement. You then said to all the budget debates we asked for: It's all there is. But that is, if I may say so, a general problem that we have with you, Mr Federal Minister, and the force also has it with you. We all see the difficulties that exist, and of course we also see that you can't work miracles in the framework of a coalition. That's quite clear! But the people and we would expect you to at least admit that there are these problems and then consider how to solve these problems. Mr Gaal is absolutely right in his view. If we take part in a panel discussion and tell the people about problems, then from his point of view he quite rightly answers: What do you want? Your Minister says: It's all right. We've got enough groundmen. The budget could be better, but it's enough, and with the equipment, we're on the verge. – Why should he, as a Member of Parliament, believe something different from what you seem to be doing in the internal negotiations – and you tell us here in Parliament again and again? That is also a question that you must answer us, Minister of State. People expect you to at least admit the problems. It was the same with regard to basic service providers. You've always said you've got enough. But we know from the current figures that this is not the case at all. You cannot reach the number of 34 000 men. They then bring some numbers, but we know that it was sometimes less than 30,000. They also have the big problem of people coming to the Federal Army, but after three days they will be sent back home, because even strange things happen in medical examinations. There are sportsmen, for example, very active and wonderful on the road, but they are sent home by the military doctors. What about the Herrespsychological Service, ladies and gentlemen? If someone says he's scared because he's in a barracks, he'll be sent home. There, too, there would be a need for action. I do not want to mention the civil service system at all now. In this area too, further liberalisation has been agreed in recent years. I would also like to address a question to you, Mr Federal Minister. At the last round of negotiations, you were not at all involved, it was apparently just a conversation between the clubmen. I can imagine this well because the climate between you and Mr Minister It's probably not going to be the best. But this also shows how inadequate this government has become. Civil service will no longer be negotiated between the responsible government ministers, but between the two clubmen who – and this suspicion is permitted to me – have no idea of the matter at all. The main thing is that you have a problem again, so that you can form a coalition together again. You look, you don't hear anything from you, but maybe we hear something better today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We believe that it would be time to look at reality and take into account international requirements. Internationally, the way is towards the professionalization of the armies. Professionalization does not mean pure professional army, I also say. A pure professional army would be an army of mercenaries who are not at all anchored in the population and would require very high costs. We liberals want a mixing system, which I believe would be useful. We want a strong professional framework, integrated into a voluntary army with a flexible right of service, within which everyone can report to a proper service. And in addition, we want a volunteer military, where people can volunteer, perform their exercises, their ground defense service, where people are properly rewarded and where equipment is also provided. The general obligation in the current form is no longer present. Since you liberalized civil service in such a way, there is no longer this military obligation de facto. Today, everyone has the opportunity to decide freely whether to serve with the weapon or civil service. We liberals believe that it would have failed to convert the general obligation of military service into a general duty of service, as a signal to the people, to the young people, that everyone must, in principle, do his service to the community, but we are trying to obtain as far as possible volunteers for our army and our national defence, because of course they are much more motivated to fulfil these tasks. – You have also often discussed this, Mr Federal Minister. We are waiting for the realization. Political support is constantly being encouraged and is being carried out again and again in Sunday's speeches. Where is she? Where is this evidence of concrete action? I always wonder – now also addressed to the Socialists – when you take part in the Angelobungen, in some celebrations, which speeches you hear from socialist mayors. That's what it says: Full support for the state defense! We need a strong army! That requires more money! That's a hell of a gear! Scandalous, what conditions are in place here! But when it comes to implementation, when it comes to the actual realization of these demands – not only in Sunday's speeches, where it is unacceptable that you make a fishing observation and give a nice speech – then you can't see any more of this support. I know there are people in your ranks who see it differently. But the question now also arises for the SPÖ: People like Kostelka, One, Scholten, and as they may all be called, are going through what the state defense is a thorn in the eye, or are going through here too those reasonable people who say: National defense is an important pillar of our state integrity, and we need to promote it with best knowledge and conscience so that it can fulfil its tasks as well? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need this national consensus in the defence of the country. We also need, at last, the certainty that the values surrounding this national defence apply. To whom the value of the home country, to whom the value of the family, to whom the value of the protection of this home country and the family does not mean nothing, will also mean national defence. But for us as parliamentarians, it should be a responsibility to re-establish these values in society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is where the schools are called for, because the media are required, but above all we are calling for parliamentarians. Security policy should not be an ideological way of playing. Finally, act according to your conscience, finally act on the order given to you by the people in the elections, or resign, for so you are a danger to this country!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7502	I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Defence to answer the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e7523	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A further arch of questions has been asked here. On the one hand, the fact that 31 questions have been listed and a whole package has been added to the list shows the complexity on the one hand, and on the other hand, obviously some of the information residues that are worthwhile in addition to it, because I believe that, of course, an opposition party also has a right to be informed and informed accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner! They referred to the changes in the geostrategic situation and the question of Austrian security policy. One can certainly say without exaggeration that the 1989 revolution was not only the biggest change in the geostrategic field of Europe over the past few years and decades, but also probably this century, if not even the last centuries. Europe has lost its role from the main confrontation between East and West. The two hostilely opposed pacts have no longer or are dissolved, the Red Army has undergone a Western-East shift of 1,500 kilometers, and a complete change has taken place as a result of the new set-up in all of Eastern Central Europe. What many experts suspect or have prophesied from the outset, which perhaps was not recognized by a large number of people at first, was the fact that such a change from the outset no longer brings security, but only a shift in security problems, in the form of how experts express it: It was the transition from a "high risk and high stability" situation to a "Lower Risk and Lower Stability" situation, that is, the transition from a situation of high, enormously high risk, but also due to the balance of terror, relatively high stability, a cemetery rest, which was present, to a situation of increased or very high instability, which we all experienced in the example of the outbreak of war in exjugoslavia and an increasing instability in other countries as well. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't need to explain this to us!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has such ideas for defense!]] For us, therefore, the question arose from the outset: What is the correct answer to this new situation? – Let me stick to the following. For Europe, it has meant that between the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea a whole series of states have gained their sovereignty, a sovereignty which is very much linked to many instabilitys, because they are states with state borders, some or most of which are not yet 80 years old, because they are states that have relatively little self-confidence and little independent experience, which have not had democratic traditions over the last 50 years, and in which there is, on the other hand, a wealth of political, economic and social problems and, in particular, national problems that cause a high degree of crisis. This means that we have to deal with this problem as a whole. And if we ask ourselves: What possibilities are there to change that? Then one must say that the old recipes are undoubtedly not suitable. According to all probability, there are three possibilities to bring stability to Eastern and Central Europe – theoretically speaking: It is the hegemony of one or more states, it is the balance of forces, and it is integration. For the first time in the history of the continent, there is a chance that this area, from its own, that is not formed by the hegemony of one or more states, can build and achieve an independent order. And that is probably the crucial question for us at the same time. That is, if one wants to prevent individual powers from taking place even in the future, then the first possibility does not come into question, then one must look for other solutions. There is no doubt that a balance of forces cannot be restored because the differences in size are so strong that it is simply impossible to create a balance of power, so that as a real, real third possibility only integration remains. It is therefore also logical that we should make every effort to stabilise this area by means of integration in the field of security policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also requires, in particular, Austria, a country which has a common border with States that once ruled communistally, to a extent of 1 400 kilometres and which, in total, has four neighbours from this former communist area as the only state in Europe, a contribution to the stabilisation of the path of integration. And it was therefore logical that we should have made new considerations in order to redesign security policy in the future and, in particular, to promote the European path of integration. The solution offered for this is undoubtedly the European Union in the political field. Brussels is the Integration Centre, and there is already a political structure there that could be able to bring together the whole continent in an inclusive way in the future, thereby also overcoming nationalism in security and defence policy as far as possible. On the other hand, we have to say that it is far from so far as it is necessary, of course, to have a high level of conditions. That means it'll take some time. And it is especially necessary to add the security component in the European Union, and this is happening now. As of next month, the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference will be held in which the Member States of the European Union will deal with how in the future a common foreign and security policy can take place, in particular to prevent wars from breaking out in Europe. However, the European Union does not rely on a no-one's country, but, of course, it is based on two organisations which have already provided certain services or which have the necessary conditions to actually bring about this stabilisation: On the one hand, this is the Western European Union, which was hardly a function during the cold war, but in the meantime was defined by the European Union as the security arm, as the defence arm of the European Union, and also as an integral part of the development of the EU in the Maastricht Treaty. That is to say, the security, defence and integration of Europe will or will in future be carried and promoted mainly by the Western European Union, the WEU. It is therefore obvious that this is also a priority for us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] On the other hand, it is so that... [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's not in there for security policy! It's in there for defence policy, it's not in there, it's security policy!]] I would say, Mr Arbitrator, that a foreign politician like you is aware that security policy is also part of it and cannot be considered in isolation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: reverse!]] You can also say it the other way around: All the more so, what I said about it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I know it's the other way round!]] The second is that the WEU is not to be seen in isolation, but, of course, the third organization, NATO, will continue to have a very decisive influence on Europe's security in the future and will be an essential factor. The WEU therefore sees itself as a European pillar within the Transatlantic Alliance. These three organisations, EU, WEU and NATO, will form Europe's future security architecture. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is there a WEU membership without NATO membership?]] Now the question has been asked whether this also results in a consequence, for example, in the connection. The following can be determined: The highest priority – or is there the largest manko – is undoubtedly the area of an independent European security and defence policy. This condition is to be met by the WEU and, of course, the emphasis is to be placed on it. On the other hand, it is not isolated. I think I can say without exaggeration that I was the first in Austria to demand full entry into the Western European Union with all the consequences and from the very beginning, and that this is the essential objective of security policy for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's NATO entry!]] It is obvious that the question of the relationship with NATO arises in connection with this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is there a WEU member who is not a NATO member?]] There are quite different opinions. In the UK, for example, it is mostly answered in the sense that isolated membership should not be possible, and in France there are other views. In other words, this is quite a question which will be answered during the Intergovernmental Conference and especially in the event of the expiry of the WEU Treaties in 1998. For us, however, one thing is certain: It is undoubtedly right to establish a close-up relationship, a full and comprehensive cooperation with NATO as far as possible, but surely more important and timely is the way to the Western European Union for us. And that's exactly what we're trying to do with iron consequence. It is certainly now also a question – in the talks, in the government negotiations on the future security policy orientation of Austria – that we should preserve the possibility of being in these organisations in the future. It is certainly completely wrong to simply say: Let us wait for what comes out at the Intergovernmental Conference and wait for the model to be presented to us by the others. We are one of those states that have the greatest interest in security and defence policy, and we are therefore also one of those states that should be involved in the fact that as much of our ideas and concepts are involved in the reform of these organizations. It is therefore certainly important not only to get the opportunity of full participation and full participation as early as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner! They also raised the question of neutrality. It is undoubtedly a subject which in the past has had a high priority in Austria and which still generates some strong emotions or strong reactions. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: And legal basis is! Not just emotions! Law!]] To this end, the following must be said: The Austrian neutrality was de facto the purchase price for the state contract in 1955. At first the enthusiasm was not so strong, but it must be said that Austria has set itself on this status. It was not freely chosen, but it was a self-elected neutrality, and we have known it and, of course, confess ourselves to it to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It was a freely chosen one!]] [[Abg. Dr. Nowotny: Well!]] It is enshrined in our constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Eben! Just like that!]] It was a product of the Cold War and, of course, has lost much of its functions with the end of the Cold War. But that does not mean that we have to throw them overboard from today on tomorrow – there is no reason at all – but now it is for us to define what we need to do in the future in order to achieve a maximum level of security for our state. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What do you want?]] And that is simply solidarity, that is, going into the WEU and that means full cooperation with NATO. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What do you want?]] What are the consequences? – The next step is to join the Western European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Good!]] That's the goal I'm standing for. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Who is "we", Mr. Minister? Do you mean "we" the government you represent, or do you mean "we" to someone else?]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Majesty's plural!]] I can tell you this: These are those members of the Federal Government who are responsible for foreign, security and defence policy, the Foreign Minister and I, and these are on the other hand also the leading employees of my home and also a large number of essential European politicians. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Reasonable idea!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is the chancellor too!]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Learn the Constitution! Learn the Constitution!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But they don't represent you on the government bank!]] The next month, as you know, we will be going to the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, which will discuss the problems and issues of a future common foreign and security policy. [[Abg. Arbitrators: There are guidelines that say something else!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Guidelines say nothing at all!]] All the discussion models there are expected to establish a close relationship between the EU and WEU – up to a possible future merger. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The WEU has rejected that!]] Now it's about: If this is the general trend, it is undoubtedly also reasonable to have, as early as possible, not only the status of an observer who cannot even apply, but also the status of a full member, who, of course, can not only say so in all the activities, but who is already there from the planning and who does not get the worst place in the implementation, but as far as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I realize that it is sometimes difficult to recognize a tendency in time and to fully perceive the consequence, but I also have to say one thing: [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're right!]] Alois Mock recognized in good time how important it is to be able to take part in European events, to seek accession to the EU, and it was difficult for him at that time because there were so many who said that it was not possible and that was not compatible with our neutrality and different others. And today we see that it is not only compatible, but it is even a highly beneficial contribution to the position of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Subject to neutrality!]] It did not mean that we therefore have to say goodbye to a law. That is how it will be with the WEU! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Subject to neutrality!]] There will be long discussions, but we will go in there sooner or later. We will be participating in the European integration process, and we will certainly also be able to ensure that Austria is not dependent on what the others are assigning to it, but that Austria itself can agree accordingly. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is like the anonymity of the savings book!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we ask ourselves today, What are the benefits? What are the disadvantages? Then one must say that, without a doubt, security in the Community brings much more protection for our state, for its citizens than for us to do so alone. It also means that it is much cheaper. Common protective facilities simply mean cost-effectiveness compared to a situation in which you have to pay everything yourself. At the same time it means that we have a signal effect on others; it also means that we are making a positive contribution to the integration of Europe, that perhaps we will only allow some of the Eastern European or Eastern European states to be integrated by our participation. That is why I see it on the one hand alongside these advantages and on the other hand, in addition to the fact that a contribution only brings cost benefits, as a necessity to follow that consistently, and I cordially invite all to take this path with us. Regardless of that, of course, this enormous security and defence change in Europe, this major geostrategic transformation, also means immediate consequences for ourselves. We can say again, Mr Scheibner: We were the first in Europe to respond! All the others followed. We have, first of all, presented and launched a concept that has taken account of it not only, but also implemented it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What concept?]] If I have said that we are living in a time of change, this also means: There is no doubt that such a great break is not done in two or three years, but there will probably still be some turbulence. There may be phases in which this process continues very strongly, and there may also be periods in which the whole is turning backwards. There are many uncertainties and, therefore, the essential question is that one should extend its scope for action as far as possible, that one has as flexible systems as possible and that one can react to them as quickly as possible within these flexible systems. Thus, we have also been the first to change our defense system, and we have passed from the space defense system to a border-related, deployment-oriented, quickly available, inclusive and flexible system. We can say today that we have not only succeeded in achieving some goals – and you know how much it was initially discussed – but we have already reduced the mobilising framework of our army, which is what others are doing today under great pressure, from around 200 000 to 120 000 in 1992 by the decision of the Federal Government. At that time there was criticism, and today everyone agrees with me that this was an absolutely right step. Today, there is no one who is questioning this step, and it will also be in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The conditions are missing!]] We have thus created the organisational framework for a flexible national defence for the present and the future. One of the main objectives was to increase the ability to be present. We have succeeded in this system, even in fact – constantly, every day of the year! – to have more than 10 000 soldiers at their disposal who have at least such training as to be able to send them to the border with the appropriate tasks and who are at any time also able to carry out such an assignment. Furthermore, we have naturally also had to respond and respond to other questions – training et cetera – as the first in Europe! We can say today that we have also changed the training structure accordingly, for example by upgrading the military academy. However, the goal is not yet achieved. We already have a semester more, we have brought in quite new content. We have put the entire subofficial training on new legs to make appropriate decisions there. You mentioned a third area: equipment. Without a doubt, Austria has a need to catch up in this area. What have we done in this area? In recent years, we have consistently put in place where we have had the greatest need, namely in the field of steering weapons. In the last five years, we have therefore also made our biggest purchases in the soil soil, ground-air and air-air arms systems, and we can say today that this has been the largest and most significant step since the German army was introduced. However, we have not limited ourselves to it alone, but have, of course, set essential priorities in other areas, such as leadership in terms of communication et cetera. [[Abg. Scheibner: Minister of State! Battle tanks, wheel tanks, interceptors!]] We have taken very decisive steps on the computer sector with the introduction of the entire computer system. But, of course, this would not have been enough to be able to face risks of their own strength and strength. We have therefore placed a particular emphasis on the issue of heavy weapons, not only by increasing and multiplying the force of war in the field of artillery and thus the heaviest of weapons. We are also there at the latest in technology, in the state-of-the-art systems currently available in Europe. No doubt there are still unfinished areas. This means that in the foreseeable future, the succession of dragons will be seasoned. [[Abg. Scheibner: When?]] I have therefore already started the procurement process in 1992 and we will bring forward in good time, probably this autumn, an appropriate proposal, which will be connected to a timetable and the sequence of the necessary procurement. In this respect, it will be necessary to take appropriate decisions by the National Defence Council and the Federal Government because every procurement process in the military field, especially if it is large systems, has a very long lead period. These are objects that cannot be purchased from today on tomorrow, the realization of the procurement usually takes a few years. A second point is the whole range of mechanized forces, so all that is normally understood by tanks. Without a doubt, the life cycle of the current combat tank or gun is already very advanced. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: Well said!]] They can assume that not only the necessary plans are being made, but of course also a sober inventory is carried out. Our M60 was still in use in the Gulf War; the Americans still used it back then. If there was talk of "attoll building" here, it must be said: In the high-tech war on the Gulf, the M 60 was in use in our version A 3, but on the other hand, one has to see that, compared to other systems, the life cycle is approaching the end and therefore follow-up decisions are required. It therefore has a priority in our large investment decisions, as well as in the battle-guard tank. More important in the priority, however, is the acquisition of wheel tanks. We are also not inactive in this respect, and it is not right if it is said that the wheel tank is for the United Nations. Of course, it is also intended for use within the United Nations. Some of the 68 pieces delivered in this year, namely around 20, are white for the UN use. All others are of course available primarily for use in Austria or for tasks in this direction. It is a first tranche, and of course more must follow. We will write them out separately, and we will be entering this tender process in the foreseeable future. You presented a helmet here, and it was quite impressive in itself how you did it. We know, of course, that this helmet should be "replaced". But we do not only know, but we have already carried out a call for proposals last year, the provisions of which have been adopted so strictly by our experts that the call for tender has finally been withdrawn. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] We've been re-subscribing. [[Abg. Scheibner: Since 1985! That's eleven years!]] The procedure is now almost complete, and at the end of April and at the beginning of May, we will also be giving the corresponding supplement in terms of helmet and splitter protection. Of course, we will not even wait for this time when every effort comes, but we will act as quickly as it is necessary. In other words, we will, if necessary, immediately access and buy immediately, as we did in Bosnia-Herzegovina. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Deputies! They have also criticized the preparations for the UN deployment in Bosnia and the use in Bosnia carried out under UN rule by NATO. That's where you failed than all the NATO. This group of experts has sent to us, which has reviewed all the preparations: Organization, equipment and training of our soldiers. [[Abg. Scheibner: Nothing has happened for a long time, Minister!]] And do you know what the result is? – The result, the NATO findings about our troops sent to Bosnia, is literally: "meet or exceed NATO standard", in good German: The troops sent from Austria to Bosnia comply with or even exceed the NATO standard. I think that is quite a compliment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say the following: We have not limited ourselves simply to sending the existing material to Bosnia, but we have taken additional measures in very specific areas. We equip all vehicles with an extra armor because we assume that our people should have a maximum of safety. [[Abg. Scheibner: What we asked! Before Christmas, when we demanded this, you said that you don't need it all!]] Call me other countries that have that! Apart from the Federal Republic of Germany, almost none of the troops employed there have such a high level of security. We assume that if our soldiers are to perform their service in such a difficult and dangerous situation, they should also have the right to a maximum of protection. And we are prepared to give this protection, and we would also take measures in the short term and out-of-tour if necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now at once!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to pursue this path consistently. I know, of course, that it is not easy to bring the military budget to a desirable state. In recent years, I have consistently succeeded in increasing the procurement budget, with a single exception: In the previous year, there was a general discount of 4 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Your generals say it has failed to lock up than to continue! If they don't get money soon, they'll lock up!]] In the years before, it looked different. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is how the budget looks: from 1.5 to 0.8 percent!]] In your statistics! I can tell you the corresponding figures externally: It goes from 7.3 billion to 8 billion. That's a fact. That is, we buy one of what is really available, and not of what appears on your note. That's one thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We shall endeavour to implement it accordingly in the future. But I say also here in all clarity: Of course, in times of a savings package, which concerns all Austrians, the German army will also have to make its contribution. And we have already made our contribution to this. We were the first to implement an administrative reform in Austria, where we have consistently dismantled administrative posts. I would like to present the relevant information to you. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've installed more gold pheasants, but you've dissolved the group commands for this! You don't have any more soldiers for that, no more officers! That's a Kasperl Theatre!]] I, when I took over the ministry – as I am from the private sector – also set myself the goal of doing as rationally as possible. In the private sector, every two to three years it is common to search through the entire business, yes, if you want to succeed in the longer term. And I assumed that this is also necessary in this area if we are to get the corresponding amounts for equipment and equipment and to remain credible. So I also started in the central office, not outside. Half a year after I became a minister, the first thing that fell was the army command and thus a whole command level. We then led the army organization into new paths, but we did not start outside with the regiments and the battalions, but in the ministry. I broke up ten departments in the ministry – that is, it was a total of 15. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did they come from?- Oh, my God!]] However, since five new ones were necessary, the net savings effect was ten departments. In the meantime, 147 planning sites have already been saved. Of course, this has continued in other areas. The corresponding documents can be found out what savings we have achieved at the planning sites in recent years. If everyone had saved as well as we were, we would certainly have been much further in many areas and might have saved ourselves some kind of money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the generals?]] I know that we are always blamed, everything is put in the commanders. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the generals and the brigades? We have more than the American army!]] Yeah, I can tell you. We have four generals, and this is also the international average. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How many brigades?]] All others form a pyramid, similar to in the other states. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How many brigades do we have?]] There is certainly no bloating here. But I can tell you this: we have saved more than half of the commanders who gave it outside. We have had over 30 large associations, which we have reduced to 15. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How many brigades do we have?]] That is to say, the step you are demanding or you have asked for in the past, we have taken within two years. We can say today that it was true, and we will continue this path very consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have addressed the civil service problem or the military population. This is undoubtedly a very interesting area, because in recent years the number of manpowers per year has fallen dramatically, to an extent that one would not believe. Within eight years, the number of people available in principle per year has fallen from over 63 000 to 42 000, i.e. about one third. There have also been other development difficulties, such as in the field of civil service. We have therefore consistently observed that this cannot happen in the future. We have, as you know, found a solution with the eleven or now twelve months. We have actually achieved the objective that it should not be more than 6 000 in one year. In the last two years, we have had civil service applications in the order of about 5 500. And that is the magnitude that we have planned and which also corresponds to the longer-term trend. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have only 34,000 men in the troop?]] If you look at the conditions in the Federal Republic of Germany in comparison, you will see how successful our measures have been in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have only 34,000 men in the force?]] There is no doubt that every new regulation must also be started with due caution and must ensure that it does not create new uncertainties. I believe that, even if the detailed design is as successful as it is intentioned, the emergence will somehow correspond to our ideas. [[Abg. Scheibner: So you have the 34,000 man?]] You mentioned the numbers. Yes, we have set ourselves a goal in the HG New, that is, 34 000 men. It can be said that we have achieved this goal in the last two years. We exceeded the number in a year, there were a little more than 37 000, and we did something about it in a year, there were only 32 000. That is, we have reached the order in both years, and we will reach you in the coming years. Of course, each system has to have a certain degree of flexibility, because the different levels of vintage are not always the same and because there are undoubtedly different requirements. The fact that this overall change, namely the reduction in vintage strengths from 45 000 and 50 000 to 34 000 now, is of course not easy to handle in the area of the army, I give you absolutely right. This is a tremendous change. Just remember what conversion needs would mean, for example, in an industrial farm, in a farm or in a commercial holding, if suddenly one third of the basic capacity were no longer available. These are the questions and the problems that we have to deal with every day. But we are here to solve this, and I believe that this has so far been absolutely successful within the framework of the possibility. You have asked a whole series of other questions, and I would of course also like to go as far as possible and not forget anything. I believe that I have dealt with the security issues and developments in detail. Perhaps one more question you have asked, namely the question three, the question of whether the involvement or NATO partnership will bring something to peace. There is no doubt that it does not bring immediate protection, but in itself this development is of the utmost importance not only for Austria but for Europe as a whole. We must bear in mind: Few more than five years ago, these systems were hostile to each other. Today, for the first time, there is a joint division of Americans and Russians who make peace in Bosnia and provide security there together. And that's the performance: that actually this contrast, which happened earlier, will gradually be overcome – not from one day to the next, that's certainly a development process. But if we imagine that hardly more than five years after the end of the cold war, Russians and Americans are serving together in a division, it becomes clear to us that this is a tremendous progress. In my opinion, we must do everything we can to support this, and this includes Austria's contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have also asked questions about the priorities for the Draken succession. I have already briefly addressed the life cycle et cetera. Maybe one of them: In every state, at least in every smaller state of Europe, it is true that very large projects, such as the procurement of fighter aircraft, are to be seen in isolation from the normal budgets and are also to be treated in isolation. That was the case in Switzerland, it was in Sweden, it was in Finland, and that will be the case with us. That means, of course, that does not affect the other priorities. The priority, for example, with regard to combat and shooter tanks, is derived from the life cycle. First priority will be given to both, and we will therefore proceed accordingly. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are still a few questions missing! The question 14 for example, Question 7!]] Yeah, I'd like to take care of it. Question No 14 reads as follows: "Can you rule out a further reduction in the national defence budget due to the new load package of the Federal Government?" - I'll do my best. Negotiations are not quite complete, and when the budget stands, you will have the opportunity to check whether it has succeeded in meeting this objective. I will fight for this goal until the last moment. I may go through the further questions in a row: The ten-year infrastructure procurement programme. . We have a budget here, which usually remains outside the scope of consideration, because it is located in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, namely the entire building budget. This is a scale of one-and-a-half billion schilling for investments in the construction program. There is also an effort of around 450 million schilling for the protection of ammunition camps and for the military special construction. Here the safety aspect has a huge importance, which will continue to rise in the future and will therefore be taken into account by us accordingly. They also ask about the average age. That is what I have already mentioned. It must be said that age in itself is hardly a point of reference. The state-of-the-art military weapons systems usually have an age of ten, 15 or 20 years. This means that there is no doubt that it cannot be compared with normal everyday objects or, for example, the private investment sector. It depends much more on the generation from which things originate and to what extent – as it is called in the technical terminology – they have been "fight-valued" or not. This is usually the case with us, but nothing changes to the fact that, where the end of the life cycle is in sight, it is also necessary to start planning the successors in good time. As far as red tape is concerned, I told you: Army command saved, then saved ten departments in the ministry. We have reduced the total number of commanders to less than half. Basic military services: we've had it. How high is the percentage of the unfit? – There are approximately 11 percent of each sample year inadequate, and later on, at the convocation, there are, on average, about six to eight percent, which are temporarily unsuitable because there are any complaints. And if you put on a scale of how much of it goes, it's usually a magnitude of about 60 percent from this range of six percent. That is to say, it can be assumed that in the course of time the 11 percent still add four to five percent. This is a quite respectable or even low number internationally, but it does not mean that we are not trying to get out of the existing number of ground defenses due to the lower primary service numbers, because we believe that some of them can carry out the activity as a function soldier. Of course, I was involved in the civil service negotiations. But as you know, these negotiations take place at different levels, in different groups. And you can be sure that if I could not go along with something that is negotiated if I am not present right now, I would report accordingly. The question 23 is a very up-to-date one and is asked again and again, namely: Are you in favour of giving women the opportunity to go to the federal army voluntarily? Yes, I am in favour, and I am also convinced that this opportunity will be opened during this legislative period, because it cannot be seen in any way that women, for example, will also march through the streets armed by the police and do something on the most dangerous aspects, and that in the area of the federal army, a woman cannot even become a sub-official. In other words, I am not only in favour of opening up, but also in order to ensure that all functions are open to women in principle. I will work to ensure that it happens not only in the course of this legislative period, but also as early as possible, because a very positive effect is assumed in several directions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are already a number of women who have reported, and it is quite interesting to hear what they want to become. It's really different. One wants to be active in infantry, for example, a second wants to become a helicopter pilot, a third wants to become a pioneer officer because she has great interests in the technical field. That means it's a very mixed picture. And I think that in a few years' time it will be quite absurd for women to be denied entry. [[Abg. Arbitrators: For all functions?]] You know, if I explain it like you, then don't. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, I ask: For all functions in the army?]] That's right. – In principle, all paths and functions are to be open to women. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Here I am very glad! Military Clergy, too?]] Yes, this will certainly be possible with the evangelicals. [[Abg. Arbitrators: With the Catholic, too?]] This is not my matter, it is a question of the Church. But of course also as a military clergyman. But I might like to say the following example in order to highlight this very impressively. On our transport from Sarajevo to Visoko we have been led by a British unit. Chauffeur in our Car was a young British woman who has been with the British Army for six years and, of course, is serving in Sarajevo. I also asked them if there were any problems, how they were involved, and what difficulties were there. In fact, it has only smiled more about it, because it is always used to these questions, but on the other hand it is quite natural that, as in many other areas, it is, of course, integrated, as with the police or, for example, in the administration of the Federal Army. The idea that there are no women in the barracks is absolutely wrong, because we have well over 2,000 female workers within the framework of the federal army. Therefore: If our government partner decides to jump on this train, jump up in time and soon, I am sure that we will soon have a solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: At the top!]] Mr. Schieder! Mr. Cap is just about to whisper into your ear. He may know special secrets. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Mosers as Minister of Defense! Exchange with the Moser!]] Sonja Moser's for that anyway. But with Mrs Konrad, I am doing a bit harder, which is not yet quite enough for her to get through with it. But I believe that this too is just a matter of time. On question 24. Question 24 concerns the military parade. And I have to tell you: Your remarks, Mr Scheibner, have already cost me a smile. You know, I can say, There has been no parade of the Austrian federal army at the ring for decades. It was a matter of course for me that in the year of 40. The anniversary of the Federal Army and the 50th anniversary. A parade of this kind will take place in the anniversary of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if you have followed the public debate with only half of your attention, perhaps you will admit to me that it was a long and partly violent discussion, but that it was conducted with consequence, also with the consequence that I have come a step towards the government partner in order to make a solution possible. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You wouldn't have needed the government's approval at all!]] But the applause that the people have given to the departed tanks has shown how important it is for the whole army to appear. And, of course, we have also found a form that has made it possible. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Minister, the population has decided: She wants a parade!]] One thing I can say to you: that the consequence had already been drawn by me before and that the whole thing had also been carried out with consequence. And I will do the same in the future. I do not think that we must make a parade every year, but I do believe that at certain intervals a corresponding presentation by the Austrian Federal Army should take place. [[Abg. Scheibner: When again?]] Yes, our gentlemen will consider this and go out with it in good time. But we will also do other public works. For example, last year we made some post-casts. Some partners in this House are criticizing this if we do. But I think that is necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: People don't want to see postcasts, but devices!]] Yes, we go further and make additional partnerships. They have addressed the field of public relations. I am now answering this question. And you will also see parades, of course. [[Abg. Scheibner: No postcasts! You have to make contact!]] You know, now I have something to say. Mr Scheibner! You're not mad at me now if I contact you personally. They are chairman of the National Defence Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A good chairman!]] A good chairman, there's nothing against it. – But there was no proposal from you to make a parade. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh yes!]] It was mine, personally, I must say that! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But I confess to: I would like to thank you for the support you have given me when the discussion in public has started. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's all right!]] And I have to say, The opinion published was not always for it, but we have managed it! [[Abg. Scheibner: Will you be on 26. October 1996 to hold a parade again, Mr. Minister?]] So with vehemence to demand the successor parade, that is your good right; but it can also be judged accordingly. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Further measures to promote the idea of war. – We have already made partnerships with 130 large Austrian companies and institutions, where it is possible to link civil life and military life as strongly and intensively as possible and to maintain an exchange of views. We will continue to do so in the future. There are completely new developments. We are in the situation for the first time, that some young groundmen in addition to the presentations, "day of the open door" in the barracks et cetera, can come up with something. That is why I did not take over the honorary task of presenting and participating in one of the largest cities in Austria just a few days ago, because I believe that it is important that this should be done by the people themselves. And there are numerous suggestions that are already being made. They ask, in question 26, what role does the school play? – Undoubtedly an important one which should be fully perceived and which has certainly been perceived in different ways in the past. I hope that we will be able to put even more emphasis in the future, and I trust in my colleague Gehrer and her colleagues in particular. Question 27 concerns the question of compulsory military service in general, and to this end the following must be said: I have never made a secret that, for me, the question of the military system is not a principle but, for me, the first question is: How important or how good is a system suitable for bringing about a maximum of security for a country? In other words, the question of military effectiveness must be put first. Secondly, the question of costs and thirdly the question of feasibility. Both argue that we not only maintain the present flexible system with a high number of professional military frameworks, but also that we develop professionalization, that we strengthen all types of access on the basis of voluntaryity, and that at present we do not go away with the system of general military service, because this could pose a risk as long as we do not belong to an efficient European security system, and as long as there are risks from the eastern part of Europe. On all further questions in a short time. I will not go further on the theses of a fellow minister. I have not only announced my opinion to the public, but, of course, I am also in favour of it. I would also like to say one more thing at this point: I consider the comments made in the following period to be provocative and believe that they could also be held at the same time and with consequence. I cannot imagine that for a long time a situation will be maintained where a member of the government stamps a profession at every second discussion. I think that's unacceptable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Perhaps the discussion has shown – this also shows discussions in other countries – that the area of national defence is certainly not the simplest, but it is an enormously important one. I will therefore continue to use all my strength in the future to reach a maximum and that there is also a maximum of security for the Austrian population. [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[17:32]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8631	Ladies and gentlemen! Before giving the floor to the first speaker of the debate, I would like to say in addition to the communications made before the entry into the agenda that a letter addressed to the President of the National Council has now been received by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The text of the letter is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8668	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, according to business regulations, speaking time is up to 15 minutes per speaker. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Chief. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8698	There is no such thing as a urgent one, Mr Parnigoni, that you should know. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the fact that, unlike many members of the two other opposition parties, you have quite a sense of democracy policy, that you respect the rights of Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament as valid and do not deem an urgent question of the opposition from the outset and not urgent. I also believe that today's urgent question and reply to the current situation of the negotiations on the reform of the Austrian Federal Government, but also on the preparation of the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference at European level, are more urgent than ever. The Austrian savings package on the one hand and saving the German army in recent years are two things that are to be reflected here and now and in time, from the point of view of my group. Mr. Federal Minister! I am very grateful to you for first of all having made a general trip through the security landscape in Austria and the development since 1988. But do not forget, if you articulate your pride over the savings in your ministry here, that there has also been a saving of once 240 000 to 120 000 in the Federal Army and it is therefore only right and cheap to make a savings in the form of the permanent cadres of the army. I would also like to put other figures into the discussion. Federal Minister! If 26 000, with the women employed by the Federal Army, currently face 28 000 professional officers or staff of the Austrian Federal Army – 1995 – 34 000 convocation orders, which unfortunately do not currently follow 10 percent, I would like to make a clear and clear comparison of the figures mentioned by you. You have said that it was once 37 000 and once 32 000, once just above our target, just under our target. I have the figures for 1995: There were 32,266 convocation orders. Of these consignees, 10 percent were unsuitable or dismissed from the service during the first three months. This does not make up 32 000 basic defenses, but 29 000 – 29 000 that are available. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: That's not true!]] In the last 15 months, when I was the third President of the National Council, I have looked at a number of fishing celebrations in Austria, of course also participated in the parade, and I have really enjoyed them in full enjoyment both at the Heroes Square at the Angelobung and in front of Parliament – like hundreds of thousands of Austrians on this day, directly in Vienna and millions in front of the screens. However, as a member of a unit of arms, namely the artillery that was not allowed to pass over the ring – similar to the tank weapon – I believe that the purchase of the M 109 as a very suitable instrument for today's age, even over the turn of the millennium, should have been documented to the Austrian public as an armamental step in artillery. I and many members of our weapons hole still regret that we were not allowed to take part on this beautiful day on the Ringstraße. I think it was also a good opportunity for the heavy weapons holes and in view of the motivation of the excellent officers, officers and teams there on that day. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Socialist Group and nobody else in this Federal Government are clearly and clearly responsible for this, and I say that clearly and clearly. And something else, Minister of State: I also expect you to speak in public-law broadcasting and to be more energetic there. Because if any "Pimperl tennis match" in this Republic leads to corresponding shifts in the Austrian television program due to extensions, it is not clear to me that after 40 years the first parade of the Austrian federal army did not cause the ORF to show that part of this parade, these last ten minutes, where after the vehicle columns finally came those people who fill this federal army with life and spirit. I believe that a serious sin has been committed here in the reporting of our public-law media in the idea of comprehensive national defence – from my point of view, an offence that a public-law institution such as Austrian broadcasting must certainly not be written as a praise in the main book of its annals. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! I've been visiting a number of army units in recent years. We have, of course, seen each other in many of these events. Some have come to your invitation, and some have come at the invitation of the National Defence Committee. The national defence committee of this Parliament has also been closed during election periods, occupied by all political groups, driven to all sides to practice there the 9th. Panzergrenadier-Brigade. There we also had the opportunity to get to know the current figures. This unit has a need of 2,500 ground defense servants. In November 1995, almost 1 000 were transferred to this unit: 860 at the regular indentation date and the remaining just over 290 at the indentation dates in summer. In order to maintain this unit to the full extent of the military division alone, some 400 to 500 basic defence servants would be convened in summer, and the minimum to keep this unit operational and capable of fighting in the future would be 1,600 basic defence workers at the basic convocation. Two heavy tank units – two hunting tank units – are Potemkinian villages there, so just stand on the paper. The corresponding staff units have not been used up, and I believe, Federal Minister, that the Court of Auditors' report on these units should also encourage you to think in the ministry at a time of savings, which has to lead to repairs as quickly as possible. I do not believe at all that the Austrian public in the field of external security prefers a security which must be filled up by other units in some units, in the core units of this federal army only on paper and then, when it comes to large-scale exercises. Mr. Federal Minister! They have mentioned the pioneer units in connection with the desire of the ladies who want to apply for the Federal Army. Take a look at the device of the pioneer units that passed the National Day on the Ring of Parliament: It's shocking. Aluminium carriers, once designed for 23 and 30 tons of load, today only carry 2,500 kilograms. A better tractor is already too heavy to pass over these emergency bridges. These are the facts! Fatigues of the aluminium are present, as there is a need for repurchasing. Federal Minister! She and Their post-purchasing staffs know that this need is twice as urgent, because the device has been used usefully in the case of disasters in the past, and in the Austrian population, it has also been an important argument for large parts of the population to continue today, despite a controlled left-wing media campaign against the German army and the comprehensive state defense, behind the German army, behind the soldiers and behind the mandate that the German army has for this Republic. You owe it to our pioneer units to set priorities in the postponing of this device also in terms of the use in times of peace and in the event of disasters in order not to risk an image damage. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I looked at our Carinthian pioneer units in Styria at the flood disaster in Voitsberg. Mr Federal Minister, I simply think it is a shame that you in your ministry have been discussing for months whether a field forge should be purchased so that the equipment itself can be tightened up, which would cost a double-digit thousand, or whether these necessary equipment, whose price is about 30 000 s, will now be made available to work in the event of disaster and to be ready for use, and not to have to retrace their equipment, their shovels and other dredges in rental workshops. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You've seen the Caterpillar that passed the ring. The oldest model was built in 1948. Unfortunately, Mr Haselsteiner is not here, but I am convinced that you will certainly not find such a construction machine in his group. They were left by the American army in 1955/56 like the military depots we are now allowed to remove. These units are urgently reoccupied, even where in peacetime our federal army is to work with these pioneer units in emergency operations. I do not think it would be possible for us in the current debate to signal cooperation at international level, on the one hand, with the military hospital and the disaster pioneer units, when we know that we need urgent action and follow-up in this area. I am right, Minister of State, if you say that you have made savings in recent years. But one thing I say quite clearly, even if you have made fun of my colleague Scheibner's papers: The share of the gross domestic product fell from 1.34 to 0.994. [[The speaker shows a diagram.]] This curve is clear. I have signed the case here with a green line, as you can see, Mr Minister: 1986/87. I do not tend to praise fellow Members often, but after the end of the era of the ministers, fresheners and krunes, this budget has come to a halt, which can also be expected to be an intermediate in times of the savings budget, which from my point of view can no longer be continued. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't want to praise the socialist coalition?]] Otherwise, the question arises, how it has also appeared in the public: Is the money spent on the army even more meaningful? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate on the qualification of our IFOR forces. I myself was in Graz and looked at how they were loaded, how they were taken off late at night, also because volunteers from my federal state and from my constituency were there. I also convinced myself because the exercise site is close to the motorway exit, how they were prepared there and how they were trained there. Federal Minister! I am happy that you have taken up and realized the suggestions that have been formulated by the freedom of movement as concerns in the main committee when it comes to the decision to send - retrofitting the vehicles, mine safety, coordinating training and all these things, up to man protection and to the helmets. But one thing I say clearly and clearly, Minister of State: That the acquisition of 400 pieces of helmets and splitter protection vests has lasted ten, twelve, even 14 years, I think is simply a scandal for the procurement of the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also results in the deficit of motivating the people themselves in their innermost. You have already talked about women in the federal army, you have promised that this will come. Mr. Federal Minister! I shall now put forward two motions for resolutions and I will be able to read them here. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that both of the motions for resolutions will be implemented in the next few days and weeks, because I think they are necessary and important to enrich Austria's external security.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8856	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Scheibner and others have been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure, as well as support and are therefore part of the negotiations. Mr Gaal has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e8881	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, in their urgent request, the ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ speak of a non-functional neutrality and believe that Austria is therefore bound to find the best possible solutions to its security challenges, let me make a few fundamental points. We all know that the security-political landscape of Europe is undoubtedly subject to a dynamic process of change. Of course, the threat of a world war is banned by the disappearance of the East-West confrontation. However, there are a wide range of causes for violent conflicts – starting from classical power policy to the factors in economic, social, ethnic and national areas. And one thing is quite clear: None of the new risks, no matter where their roots lie, concern Austria alone. But any risk can affect our country, and I too believe that these risks can be met better together than alone. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is also clear: a purely military alliance has long been unable to secure peace and stability. That is why we Socialists are based on a comprehensive concept of security, which goes far beyond the military sphere, which includes, above all, economic, social and environmental conditions. Safety and stability can only be achieved permanently in the interaction of all components. This does not mean, however, that the military dimension of security will lose its importance in the future. On the contrary: The integration of the military area into a new security system is one of the challenges facing a united Europe. Of course, the central problem is European security policy, the question of how we organise the new pan-European security architecture. Federal Minister! If you're talking about full cooperation with NATO, it's called NATO entry – anything else would be fog-throwing. And I can also answer you clearly and clearly: Both NATO and the WEU are not suitable as pure, classical military alliances and, above all, do not intend to take the preventive measures for comprehensive security. The solution is therefore to establish a sustainable pan-European security structure that meets the comprehensive, indivisible and cooperative requirements. In Europe, there is currently a security organization, which includes all 15 EU countries and all other countries, the OSCE. The size of this organization – we know that – is at the same time its weakness. And a reformed OSCE would therefore be a good basis for achieving a pan-European security architecture so that an important first step can be put in the right direction. And as far as our Austrian situation is concerned, there is no compelling security policy reason for Austria to join NATO or the WEU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who stand up for membership of Austria in these military alliances repeatedly justify this with the threats that our country is supposed to face. We believe that in doing so, we operate with deception maneuvers, that there are acts of deception. Because no one here can call us a state that threatens Austria today, and the old friend enemy scenario belongs to history. [[Abg. Scheibner: colleague! Would you have believed in 1990 that a year later we were fighting at our borders?]] Surely that was not to be foreseen. But you cannot derive from it a threat from Austria and reason that it would be important and right to join the WEU and NATO, a classic military alliance of the Cold War. We will certainly not give you any consent to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you guarantee this?]] Mr Scheibner and I have repeatedly pointed out here – and I should like to point out, Mr Scheibner, that there is no need, as I have said, to join these military alliances. [[Abg. Scheibner: Can you guarantee this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, entry at the present time would not lead to any more security, but would only reduce our security margin, because it would cover only the military sector at all. We see this in some of the security-related events in Bosnia. The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, would be increased arms expenditure and stationing obligations, which should simply not be forgotten and underestimated. That is why we will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on Austria's accession to the WEU. Rather, we welcome the procedure agreed between Federal Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors and will continue this common approach proposed here. Ladies and gentlemen! The peace partnership, on the other hand, is a useful instrument for international cooperation on security policy. We are also participating in this cooperation, and we have therefore clearly and clearly regulated cooperation with the NATO Member States and the other partner countries. [[Abg. Scheibner: colleague! Ask the Tychtl where we sit! We're in the last row!]] It moves in the area of peacekeeping, humanitarian missions and international disaster aid. As far as the WEU is concerned, the debate on its future orientation is still under way in the European Union. The results of the Intergovernmental Conference are waiting for us – and you have said so – to be an equivalent partner and to actively participate, thus bringing in our ideas and conceptual considerations. Ladies and gentlemen! For the Austrian defence policy and the German army, of course, the changed security policy conditions also give rise to changed tasks. Of course, the main task of the German army remains the national territorial defence, but decisive security challenges come to our attention, of course, from the international field in particular. I am thinking, above all, of crisis management and peacekeeping in the framework of the multinational missions on behalf of the United Nations or the OSCE, and of preparatory measures for multinational peace missions in the framework of the Partnership for Peace and future tasks within the framework of the European Union, which may also result from the Intergovernmental Conference. The participation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, ladies and gentlemen, shows that the Austrian German army can handle relatively simple tasks such as the establishment of a transport unit very difficult. And in order for us to respond quickly and effectively to international tasks in the future, we need to increase the availability of associations and units of the federal army to the necessary extent. As far as territorial defence is concerned, the German army – which can be said very well – today is able to fulfill its defence order. And right now – I give many the right to give up military service and neutrality – would be just too absurd against this background. At present, ladies and gentlemen, we are primarily concerned with safeguarding the borders: an order which the German army can actually fulfil and which ensures the satisfaction of our security interests. The security policy and the issues of national defence are two serious issues, which are of course to be dealt with permanently, but they must not be taboo either. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore no prohibition of thought and discussion. And that is why the today's unattended, on the other hand, is unacceptable to the Minister of the Interior, which is a little hidden. [[Abg. Dr Puttinger: Are you now in favour of the proposal, or are you against it, Mr Puttinger?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: We Social Democrats confess... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Do you represent the proposal One or not?]] I have not talked about it in terms of content, but I have noted here that there is, in principle, no prohibition on thinking and discussion, no ban on dealing with security issues here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why we will not agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by colleagues of the Freedom Party against the Minister for the Interior. But I can tell you one thing: We Socialists – and for this I stand – confess to us an efficient and credible national defense! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For security and democracy reasons there is no alternative to neutrality, but at present no alternative to general military service, because a professional force would not only bring higher costs and less security at the present time, but would raise a number of follow-up problems which have not been observed in the discussion until now and which one has neglected. But we will continue to have to deal with the whole issue very intensively, but, as has been said, in great peace and not in the day-to-day debate. The sensitive area of security policy and national defence is a serious issue and is certainly not suitable, as I have said, for day-to-day conflicts, but we will be very careful, with great thought and peace and responsibility continue to deal with this issue and will contribute to credible national defence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9011	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9032	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! It is interesting that Mr Gaal will end with a great commitment to the defence of the state, but before that he says that accession to a purely military alliance is not enough and does not solve any problems. Yes, the exact opposite is the case. If all the efforts of diplomacy, politics, all organizations that make great things in this state, in Europe and in the world can no longer help and the enforcement of military violence is necessary, then it is necessary. Who brought the parties in Bosnia-Herzegovina back to the negotiating table? Who? – Not the negotiations and the peace intermediaries, but NATO with its enforcement power! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also surprising that the speaker of the SPÖ is praising the OSCE as the actual instrument, but NATO and the WEU are opposed. [[Abg. Gaal: A reformed OSCE!]] With this view, Mr Gaal, you are opposed to the common foreign and security policy, including defence, to the WEU, to NATO, you are at the same level as the Russian Federation. None other than the Russian Federation takes this position. - You have to think about that. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is the new SPÖ!]] With regard to the history of the exit of the Federal Minister, I would like to say to you that I will no longer comment on this, because I have already done so in public. It is not the evils of our or other political groups who have called this a snipe idea, but the Minister for the Interior of Social Democracy Lösnak. And this is a ruling of a party friend, not others. There must be something about it! [[Abg. May. Main: His predecessor!]] The key issue of today's urgent question of the liberals is how we will participate in a European security structure. That is a serious question, that is an up-to-date question, and of course there is a ring around the positions these days, I almost want to say, in these hours. Over a long period of time, it is also quite a matter of agreement with which we agree. But what we believe remains is the maturity of decision. And that is why we cannot simply say at this point, yes, we are doing this and that accession, the third and the fourth, just because the colleagues on this issue are impatient. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Yes, the target definition is exactly what I wanted to address now. If we want to achieve the best for Austrian security and the population, we need consistency, patience and self-confidence. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] For us, what Vice Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel expressly held two days ago and what Federal Minister Werner Fassleven is actively practicing – he is not just talking about. Quote of bowl in the "Time in Picture 1" two days ago: I would like Austria to participate in all the institutions where the best way for Austria is to find peace and security. And I believe that this European security and foreign policy will ultimately be dealt with within the framework of the EU, the WEU and NATO. "I am in favour of a full membership at the end of this process, especially in the WEU." Ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear language, and for Austria's population the best is just good enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In just as clear a point, the Foreign Minister also noted: The abolition of neutrality is not to be debated. – Our solution, ladies and gentlemen – and this is now also known – is truly awesome: We have made the proposal to adopt, at the same level as the existing law on neutrality, in the constitutional order, a law of solidarity which allows us to participate in the new European security structure. 75 percent of the Austrians agree with this solution – according to serious opinions – and the responsible writers and speakers will still have to consider this very well in the Social Democratic Party. In order to be able to participate in the defence tasks within the EU, we must have the Solidarity Act. In addition, there are other restricted areas in which there can still be neutrality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] No, that can be parallel – in the European field we are in solidarity, and there is also another part of neutrality that can have its effect. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's quite right! That's not what the freshener understands! Explain it to him again!]] Maybe it's with a picture: This question of "security through solidarity and neutrality" is currently being interpreted as a parallel slalom between the government parties. This may be unsatisfying for some – but do you know how it is with a parallel slalom? – There are two slopes in a parallel slalom, but a common goal. And we have, and we will achieve that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is still a value that we can obtain. [[Abg. Scheibner: The security benefits are not available!]] And we will achieve this common goal. I would like to make a quote to you, from yesterday's report 'Report', in the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the common position. Foreign and security policy, including defence policy, has said: In particular, a small country must be interested in solidarity so that we can obtain the solidarity of the others in a critical case that might affect us. Mr Gaal! Do you take the guarantee that Austria will never again be exposed to military threats in the future? Can you do that? - I don't think you can. And that is why integration into the European security structure is an absolute necessity, including from the cost side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the costs are concerned, too, "one-to-one or one-way" applies, as we jointly represented before accession to the EU: "Lonely" costs more, "common" costs less! That's reality. This also includes military national defence, which you are always trying to push on the edge, and that is not fair. A quote by Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky from today's broadcast of the "Mitagsjournal": Neutrality or WEU accession? – This issue will be resolved for the final negotiations. A joint declaration must be reached which will be the basis for government education and for Austria's position at the EU Government Conference in Turin on Security. . So I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy to act on their chairman in good time, because there is this way that will be taken together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, ……]] Including the military component, please! Our goal remains: For the security of the Austrian population, the best is just good enough. And I repeat: The parallel slalom neutrality and solidarity must be driven, the common objective is necessary for Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are icy slopes, Mr. Colleague.]] – I am coming to you, Mr Scheibner. We have just had World Championships in skiing, so the picture is perhaps easier to understand than an explanation in detail. [[Abg. May. Main: Unfortunately, we did not cut off well!]] Oh, yes, with five medals! The EU Government Conference in Turin will begin on 29 October. March. It will last almost a year, the experts say, and at the end of 1998, the WEU is up to date with its Treaty for renewal. These are the facts and facts that we have to consider. The NATO bodies are discussing the enlargement of the East, former Eastern states want to go to NATO and are comforted and held in the front room, but Austria has the opportunity to join, and will have to decide at the given time. Austria would be welcome at any time and not – and this is another mistake of colleagues –... [[Abg. Gaal: We were not invited!]] Of course! Only now has the new NATO Secretary-General Solana said in a conversation with Foreign Minister Schüssel that Austria is very welcome, not only because of the geopolitical situation, but also because of our know-how. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: A Spanish Social Democratic!]] This would not cause a great deal of additional costs, because we would also have to spend these costs on our own army. We fully support the Maastricht Treaty, and the EU is unthinkable as a genuine community of fate and solidarity without a defence component. And that's where we belong! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Scheibner, in his very dedicated speech, has risen to an allegation that I do not want to simply stand. He said that Mr Fassleven did not know the problems or was a danger to the country. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] Please, that's the typical way to put people down personally! Do you know who's really a danger? [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that! That's a diffamation!]] That has been said and read! [[Abg. May. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of ……]] Okay, then he'll take it back. I just want to tell him who really is a danger to the country. [[Abg. May. Main: No, he doesn't have to take anything back because he didn't say it like that!]] This is written literally. [[Abg. May. Main: You should take the charge back because it's wrong!]] No, no, that was written literally. Now you're getting back for your rides! It's always the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Danger to the country are those who make things bad. Danger to the country are those who personally... [[Abg. Scheibner: First inform, then listen and then talk! It would have failed!]] I've been listening! That was too much for me! That's not how it is! The chairman of the Defence Committee does not have to say that this minister is a danger to the country. He doesn't have to say that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't need to be prescribed by you to say what I have to say or not!]] Look in your ranks for those people who make things bad, who make personal efforts for their political propaganda, look for those people! [[Abg. Scheibner: I meant the one on and on myself with the danger to the land!]] I guarantee you, you have rich harvest in your ranks. You can list them – for hours! For hours you can list the personal malformations. [[Abg. Scheibner: such a nonsense!]] Read it in the minutes. If you take it back now, I'm very right. [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't need to let you forbid the word!]] Those who are currently providing military defence in Austria are thousands of professional soldiers and tens of thousands of military soldiers. Both groups are doing great work under the most difficult conditions, and each of us should be careful to reduce this work of Austrian citizens in uniform and make flat-rate ridiculous. This is also to be written to the Minister of the Interior in the main book. Therefore, professional and military soldiers are worthy of our full thanks, and we are also very grateful – I am saying this quite explicitly – for the fact that, with all the need to look for improvements, this Federal Minister Werner Fassleven with a calm, target-oriented and consistent manner fulfils his duty for the military defence of the country exemplary and successful, and no change will be made to a word taken back by Mr Obmann of the Defense Committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the procurement budgets? That would be interesting!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Be consistent at the coalition negotiations instead of swinging big speeches here!]] We do not need any instructions from our colleague. We have a successful defence policy and a successful defence minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9405	Mr Hans Helmut Moser has now been reported on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9430	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, on the grounds of this... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about the pension? That's what we want to know!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Let's get to the point! I didn't expect any of these calls from you. Mr Scheibner, in his explanatory statement on the urgent question, has made a very wide margin on questions of Austrian security policy and defence policy and on questions of the Austrian German army. It has raised a wide range of problems, and I believe that it will be really necessary to give due account to Parliament, Mr Federal Minister, in the form of a state report which has long been due and which will be a priority to Parliament. We Liberals will therefore make an appropriate request so that this state report can finally be presented and we can discuss the situation of the German army here too. Federal Minister! You have spoken for a very long time today, but I regret that you have not really responded to the points raised and that you have not answered the questions clearly and precisely, but the state report will give you the opportunity to do so, and we will also have the opportunity to talk about an assessment of the Austrian federal army. In tomorrow's "Kurier" we can read that the President of the Officer's Society once again states that the system of national defence is currently called a blood customs maximization machine, because the German army cannot protect any state in its current, short-term equipment stand. – Mr Federal Minister, we will still have to discuss this assessment of your officers regarding the state of the federal army in this House. I believe that on the eve of the EU Government Conference, it is important and necessary to discuss aspects of Austrian security and defence policy. The debate on Austrian security and defence policy has been somewhat controversial and conceptual in recent times, and the deep, almost unbridgeable graves between the government parties have been clearly demonstrated. It would be a good idea if we could finally find a clear line here so that the positions of Austria can be represented accordingly at the Intergovernmental Conference. I would just like to give a few examples of how this discussion has taken place. Social democracy is holding fast to neutrality at all costs. As a result, the Austrian People's Party states: No, neutrality must go away! We have recently heard a curious proposal, namely this famous law of solidarity. The Federal Chancellor proposes a national Security Council – in principle not a bad idea – and Vice-Cancellor Schüssel rejects and refers to the Defence Council and the Foreign Policy Council. – Ladies and gentlemen! Both councils may meet two or three times a year, but in reality they haven't found a line yet. Representatives of Social Democracy – like Mr Gaal today – speak of a comprehensive concept of security. Obviously, Social Democrats have forgotten that since 1976 we have had the principle of comprehensive national defence, according to which, on a broad basis, not only from the military side, but also to the civil side, all measures must be put in place and put in place with a view to defending a threat. It is proposed to join the WEU and NATO. Social democracy says no and waits for a European security system that will not come if we do not act accordingly. This discussion, ladies and gentlemen, is blamable. The discussion of how it is held in public is irresponsible and harms the country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is therefore necessary that we finally come to an objective and comprehensive security policy debate, because, and this has become clear to all, we need a reorientation of Austrian security and defence policy and therefore also a reorientation of the Austrian defence system. I would now like to address a number of key points, because I believe that we must and should discuss these today in the context of this urgent question. We have to deal with the question of neutrality – yes or no – so that whether we are going towards NATO in connection with the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, with the progressive integration of the European Union, we are also taking the step towards the Western European Union and what we are doing with the general obligation to do. There are questions to be clarified such as: What contribution does Austria want to make in the context of the European Union? What values do we want to defend? Are the values set out in the national defence plan at that time still valid for us? . I say yes, but that is a question that must also be answered for the future security debate. In order not to represent a vacuum in the region, what potential does Austria want to provide? Then how does the best possible solution look? We must hold this discussion. I therefore believe that it would be necessary for the Defence Council and the Foreign Policy Council to meet at a joint meeting to be convened to make a clear and clear recommendation on the eve of the Intergovernmental Conference in the light of the need for a clear vote on our security and defence policy. That is what we are going to propose. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point for the discussion – some colleagues have already mentioned this – is the question of the threat, the changed geostrategic situation. Regrettably, the Members of this House have abstained from the Socialists, because I wanted to give them a small private body. The threat situation, as it had been given before 1989, is no longer there. The recipients of neutrality have been lost, both from the military and from the political side. Neutrality, therefore, can no longer be the answer to the security challenge because the environment has changed significantly. We therefore have an answer to this changed threat picture, which no longer has the basis for the pan-European conflict and the pan-European dispute, but certainly local and regional conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be cleared up once again with a March of the threat of Austria due to local conflicts. Mr Federal Minister, you will confirm it to me: If there is a dispute in the neighborhood, it is certainly not the case that the war conflicts have strategic goals in Austria. That is to say, the strategic objective of being present in the threat as a whole is no longer given to Austria. That is why we will no longer be able to assume this threat scenario. We therefore believe that it is necessary to adapt the concept of our security policy to these new circumstances. As we have said before, neutrality has become obsolete, neutrality is an anachronism and is no longer the security policy concept to deal with the challenges of the future. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wabl: How do you know? Our Austrian constitution is an anachronism?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Wabl! We in Parliament can and should also discuss constitutional laws, we may and should also call into question and even amend constitutional laws. We may even abolish constitutional laws. It is therefore our legitimate right and also our obligation to question existing constitutional laws, including the question of neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it has changed not only the environment of Austria, but also the starting position of Austria in terms of the design of security policy, because we have become a member of the European Union and have committed ourselves as a member of the European Union to participate in a common foreign and security policy. However, this common foreign and security policy will be incomplete if it does not include a common defence policy, just as it is laid down in the Maastricht Treaty, and if one does not ultimately come to a common defence. That is why we have to take note of this situation. That is why we have to note that the Western European Union is the security and defence arm of Europe, and therefore we also have to take the step of taking advantage of the opportunities arising from membership of the European Union. I believe that the two government parties are currently afraid of their own courage to take another step towards European integration, namely a step towards security policy. I can only remind you of the debate on Austria's accession to the European Union. When we recruited the people for this, we have this security policy component, we have highlighted the peace work of the European Union in particular. And now that we have the opportunity to participate in this peace work, we are refusing. We think this is a question of concern, and we think that it is dangerous, which is detrimental to the security of our country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that there is an alternative to neutrality, and this alternative to neutrality is, from our point of view, full membership in the Western European Union. We Liberals will make such a request because the observer status we are currently having is absolutely insufficient. It is therefore necessary to finally take this first step in the Western European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner. I know we always discuss WEU and NATO. The first step is membership of the Western European Union. We have already submitted a self-employed application in this respect. We immediately have the discussions to start the negotiations on membership, and then we will find out to what extent accession to NATO is actually required. Herbert, you know very well that there is also a different status in NATO membership. France only covers the political area. Member is also a member of Ireland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] France is not integrated into NATO's command structure. There was a transitional arrangement for Germany; the associations of the former GDR were not subject to the NATO structure. There was also the transitional arrangement that this territory was not considered to be NATO territory. That is to say, there is a wide range of cooperation opportunities in the area of NATO membership, cooperation with NATO. The first and priority step is membership in the Western European Union. We have to start the negotiations immediately. I therefore believe that this will make a very important contribution towards improving the security situation of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore do not understand the criticism that comes back and forth, that we should not join the WEU - recently also presented by Mr Gaal - because the WEU means a More security, derived from Article 5 of the Treaty. There is support, which guarantees external assistance under international law. According to the last opinion poll of the Gallup Institute, 48 percent of Austrians are waiting, ladies and gentlemen. If this is not covered by international law, it will not be able to become fully effective and there will always be uncertainty. Therefore, as a responsible security politician, we have to ensure that this is also guaranteed, and it is guaranteed by full membership in the Western European Union, which, in its full scope, has a deterrent function to its full extent, because in the event of aggression, in the event of a threat, this does not apply to Austria alone, but is always a threat to Austria as a whole. That is, I believe, a very essential aspect. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with Austria's accession to the Western European Union, we have another opportunity to fully implement the military system. For us from the Liberal Forum, the general obligation to disposition stands. The general obligation to do so is no longer necessary to the extent that we currently have it. We therefore believe that, with Austria's accession to the Western European Union, we can also suspend the general obligation of military service and that a general obligation is necessary only in the event of a comprehensive threat to society and the state. It would then be possible to change the German army and our security policy instruments and to set up a volunteer army. Such a volunteer... [[Abg. Scheibner: Are all of your views in your group?]] This view is fully supported by the Liberal Forum Group, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This volunteer also finds appropriate acceptance in the population, because 34 percent support it. France is changing and, according to the opinion polls, only 20 percent are in favour. We should therefore take this step, which seems to us to be more favourable, and which brings us more security. It is therefore useful to make a greater and substantial contribution to the security of our country in the future, because we are able to meet the security challenges as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9542	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9563	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the shifts in the mandate, an unfortunate addition has resulted... [[Call the ÖVP: Really unhappy!]] They are now faced with Chinese martial art 200 years before Christ by Sun-Zi. I haven't finished studying the book yet. But what war I have studied very well today is the war between SPÖ and ÖVP on the security question. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner and then the Minister set up a coalition on this issue. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There is no such thing as the traffic jam on the security question!]] And it was impressive how the applause took place in the same tone. The fact that the Liberal Forum has joined this black and blue coalition with its light blue coalition lamp is still another one. However, I must involuntarily praise Mr Maitz, the Steirer. He has destroyed this black and blue-blue coalition of bravouros and destroyed it in good war manner. Mr Maitz really deserves the name Wehrsprecher. He has done all his work on this issue. Scheibner as chairman of the National Defence Committee was bleached, and the color of the Minister of Defence has also changed. [[Abg. That's impossible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now it is important at European level, particularly in connection with the European Union and the Maastricht negotiations. This debate between Social Democrats and ÖVP has lasted for five years. There is no common security policy of this government. Mr Fassleven, I do not know if you consider it appropriate if, in the pursuit of a common security policy by the Federal Government, you call the members of the Federal Government a state-responsible and confirming this. That's your business, so you'll probably still have to deal with yourself. Only one thing needs to be clarified here: If the Austrian Federal Government and the two parties, who are obviously determined to go to the coalition, do not develop a common security policy and represent it uniformly in the EU, I think this is a very, very serious damage to this country. Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the quotes! Your boss, Mr. Kukacka... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Crocodile tears are now, my colleague.]] Mr Kukacka, I have a slightly different view of the comprehensive defence of the country. I believe that the military part must be pushed back more and more because it becomes counterproductive. The joy, the almost euphoric applause and almost johling of your group in connection with the very enthusiastic statements of your Minister Fassleven as part of the disqualification of the colleague of the Minister One of them reminded me a little of what military thinking means. But that's another thing. I think it is very rational to discuss what measures are finally meeting the real security needs of Austria. But one thing certainly does not meet the Austrian security needs, if Mr. Vice-Chanceller Schüssel means – I am now bringing an original quote, Mr Kiss, please listen away –: "I am because... a full membership... will be necessary in the WEU." – Original quote bowl, APA, 446, 26. 2. In 1995, the Commission adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and Then, of course, a sentence that is correct due to the grammatical large-scale performance: "NATO can result." – "I am for it" and "NATO can result." Khol has made a special invention that makes clear to all those who think seriously about the question of neutrality, that what was promised before EU accession and before the referendum and was also presented by the then Foreign Minister at a Green Congress was very tolerant and clear, namely the promise of neutrality and in the event that something should change, the need for a referendum, has already been ad acta. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ, again today in the person of the SPÖ Gaal Security Spokesman, has clearly represented the position that neutrality is still an integral part of the Austrian constitution and not a shift, even though Mr Moser has discussed it very nicely today, the light blue leader on this important question. But the SPÖ has at least a very clear position in this crucial assessment of security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Not you, Mr Moser, but the SPÖ. I know that the Federal Chancellor often considers security policy to be a banker and therefore has a slightly different relationship to these questions, but in principle the consistency of SPÖ seems to me to be very much given in this case. What the Liberal Forum reports then is Austria's accession to the WEU and, subsequently, to NATO. There is still a question mark, however, the Lord has informed me of fresheners, which is not yet quite fixed. He does not yet know how much he can influence the developments of NATO. He has not yet fully analysed this, and that is why he remains open to this difficult step. Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the FPÖ is clear: It has always taken action to ensure that Austria joins NATO. This is basically a clear position, according to the understanding of security policy, because FPÖ says that we must join an alliance that is at least the strongest alliance in Europe. The question is, ladies and gentlemen – and above all, Mr Scheibner, should you think about it – whether it is indeed reasonable to join the only working alliance in this form, as you plan, where They admittedly have more safety in the short term, because you are allied with the strongest. [[Abg. Scheibner: With the only one there is!]] However, they do not take into account that security is not only a question of the great military potential, but rather that security is determined substantially by the relationship between those parties which might lead war against each other. [[Abg. Scheibner: But also!]] And this ratio is extremely unstable, despite the resolution of the Warsaw Pact States, despite certain erosion phenomena throughout the East. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why we want to go into NATO! If everyone's inside, there's no war!]] The problem that you do not take into account is that NATO does not become stronger by our accession, but that in general, the security need of those countries may come into an unstable relationship which has not yet been fully identified in a democracy. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only when they see a danger coming out of NATO members, and I don't see it!]] I see – and I say that quite openly to you – a danger also at NATO as long as it does not clearly accept those structures that the UN sets out – that is a long process, that is a democratic process – because I believe it is necessary that we strive for security systems that are generalizable. And that's not happening in your proposal. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh yes!]] This is a very common – admittedly perhaps more reasonable – way. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why I think we should deal with it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Open which spaces What if you join NATO? – They say that there are fewer expenses for the military. [[Abg. Scheibner: Safety!]] I am very glad that the Federal Minister has announced here that he is constantly rationalizing in his area how many departments he has already locked up. I would rather if this rationalization went a little faster and into a certain area of which the Lord dreams of One – but that is another story. [[Abg. Scheibner: I think so! That's the story!]] I believe that in Europe the question of security is no longer determined by the quality of the alliances in connection with the strength of the weapons arsenals. This question has to be clarified quite differently, and I believe that we must further develop the area of the OSCE, as well as the area of the UN. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Slovenians believed that too!]] At the same time, until such systems exist, we must continue to expand our position of active neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: But then we need a very strong army!]] They always believe that a strong army increases security. This is a mistake. [[Abg. Scheibner: If we're nowhere in there? Do you think that more transparency will enable us to hold the federal army together?]] Mr Scheibner! We could rationally discuss whether it makes sense to be armed, but we can also create uncertainty by armaments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, Austria will bring this together already!]] I know that these approaches are strange to you and that we often have this debate here in this House very controversially. There are those who want to abolish it at all, and the others are always seen as those who are warriors who want to upgrade, who constantly want to get money out to buy the next generation of interception hunters. When I heard that from Mr Fassleven, I thought that now I have to go back into a resistance camp, now we have to start a popular desire again to prevent these absurd acquisitions. [[Abg. Scheibner: The fungus spoke quite differently in 1991!]] But that will not be thanks to God – I hope at least – in this federal government – for various reasons. But you, Mr Scheibner, should consider what is the most reasonable way in the context of a European security policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: I do that all the time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens welcome the debate by the Minister of the Interior for a very simple reason: It is not about – and this has been said correctly by Mr Moser – that everyone who thinks about the Constitution is equally harmful to the state. [[Abg. Scheibner: Only if we do that, then do!]] Mr Fassleven, this is a problem you have to deal with yourself. I already understand your excitement, and I would not be pleased if people thought about whether to abolish my function, but to react immediately with the accusation of state damage, may be exaggerated, but you will still do so with him. We have therefore welcomed this approach because there has already been a minister on this government bank who at the time has also been confronted by the liberals that he has thought aloud about whether there can still be a life after the German army. And you too, Mr Scheibner, as chairman of the Defence Committee should consider whether there are new forms of defence that are not carried out with the help of tanks, defence missiles, revolvers or others. [[Abg. Scheibner: There we are d’accord, only, Mr Colleague, as long as such a system is not present, it will not be different!]] I believe that you should at last take note of the fact that the great amount of money used in this area, which you so love, can be more useful in other areas of defence which have very different faces, quite different forms of development. You should think about it, then perhaps we or at least the government could come back to a common security policy in Austria. – Next time I will tell you what this valuable book on Chinese martial art says. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9872	The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State has now been notified to the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9893	The statements by the individual speakers of the political groups have essentially dealt with security policy. Some comments: I believe that understanding NATO or the WEU as a purely military alliance from the cold war is a fundamental mistake. The only fact from which these organizations are composed shows that this is the core and the tribe of the world's oldest and most proven democracies, and its security organization is undoubtedly a model which obviously also has an appeal that goes far beyond that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disc]] For it is no coincidence that from the moment when the pressure in the Eastern Central European countries has been reduced, where the authoritarian communist system has lost its ground, the desire of the population and the rulers has come to these systems after accession – hand in hand with the democratic process. If we look at which of the organizations has the best condition, we must also see that they were all created in the cold war: the OSCE, the NATO, the WEU; some, like the WEU, even have their origins before. It can be said that the OSCE has acquired some merit in reducing prejudices in the cold war, in a situation where the security dialogue had to take place at the conference level. And there is also the main weight. Not for nothing, until a few months ago, the OSCE called "Conference for Security and Cooperation" because it has always presented only one conference, and that will be so in the future. Wherever it is about substance, one must certainly look for other solutions. I believe that this should also be based on the concept of the United Nations. I am reading to you what the Agenda for Peace says, that is, the agenda for the peace of the United Nations. It says no more and no less than: "Imposing peace is beyond the capacity of United Nations exception on a very limited scale." That means making peace is, as it were, a matter beyond the capacity of the United Nations. If you want to make peace, other organizations need it. If, on the other hand, we look at NATO's Statute, we must also acknowledge that it is an organization which, of course, has already been determined by itself in the Statute, that it will act exclusively within the framework of the decisions of the United Nations, and also as long as there is a mandate or until the United Nations intervenes, so that it is an absolutely complementary organization. The second is not just the theory, but the practice. If we look at what has really happened, we must remember that we have discussed this House for hours, which is why the war in Bosnia, in ex-Yugoslavia, will not end. And if we ask ourselves today why, for the first time, there is a situation where there is at least a chance of peace, then the answer is: because NATO – not for itself but for the United Nations – is working there. That is why it is also important to strengthen this process, and in that respect, I believe, we should also remove ourselves much more strongly from the prejudices of the past from the time of the cold war. Perhaps a short word on the further procedure: I believe that it is really unheard of to get into this process as quickly as possible. To wait for a system from the Atlantic to Vladivostok and over to America in 20, in 30 or in 40 years, this will not help us. We now have the instability in the entire eastern half of our continent, which is to be overcome, after this enormous break-up period on the one hand. We can't wait to see if something could emerge from it in 30 or 40 years, but we need a system that can work in a short time. This is the WEU, and that is also NATO. The second is that we probably also have a historic opportunity. I said earlier that the entire Eastern Central European area is always under the hegemony of one or more powers. For the first time in history, there is this opportunity for an order to be created, a self-elected and freely elected order from these states, in cooperation with the Western European states. For the first time in history! These states have always been oppressed, and other orders, foreign orders, have always been imposed on them. I think it is our duty to take advantage of this historic opportunity. We may not have them in ten years, perhaps even in a shorter period of time. That is why we should act now and not miss out on time, because Austria can do so because these areas of conflict and danger are so close to us, because until a short time ago only 150 kilometres away from our state border war has been waged, and because we may have a stronger state of consciousness, perhaps better estimate the situation than countries that are 1,000 or 2,000 kilometres away from each dangerous area. We should take advantage of our opportunity to draw attention to these dangers and also the opportunities to bring peaceful solutions here. I see this as our role, and I see it as the consistent continuation of the former neutrality policy. We are simply trying to bring peace there, we are trying to communicate, we are trying to bring together Europe that has come from different directions. This is the historic task of our country, and we should consider it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9967	Mr Dr. Ofner has now been reported on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e9988	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Requests are lucky. You never know before whether they will land, what will happen if they develop into a boomerang, or if there will be an interesting discussion. This urgent request has – as you say so beautifully – entered. She was not meant to be evil, she was positive-constructive, and she also developed exactly in this direction. Interesting representations, especially by the Minister of State, have made us stop, and it has been particularly interesting that the line of conflict has not developed between opposition or concretely between an opposition party on the one hand and the Minister on the other, but between the Federal Minister for Defence on the one hand and the members of his coalition partner on the other. So a good urgent request and a good course she has taken. However, some words were particularly interesting. I've been married to the same woman for 38 years. I'm almost ashamed when I say that, you're unmodern when you confess such a thing, but one I've learned in these 38 years: [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: No, no more!]] It's a dangerous matter if you're right about the partner. There he's usually angry. He wants his battle lines. This is particularly true of Members of the European Parliament during this debate. The Minister has expressed his view that the liberals have applauded, not just one, not just a few, but all or at least most, and not only once, but again. Mr Maitz was very angry about this because everything he had endured, but not the fact that we ourselves accepted much of what Fassleven said to us. There he was like a woman after 38 years of marriage, he didn't want to, he came out and had to go straight on the table. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The woman didn't deserve that!]] [[Abg. Auer: The woman didn't deserve that!]] The second thing I noticed is the problem that Wabl has so clearly identified. One has taken a position that has stopped in the negative sense, a dangerous position that I will still deal with. Wabl has praised him about the green clover, and once again it has been clearly recognized with what concrete, targeted task the Social Democratic Party and its party leader and chancellor have carried this one to the government. A specific target group has been addressed, and this has been successful. The Greens lost their pants during the National Council election and the Social Democrats have achieved a success, albeit modest, and that was certainly due partly to the fact that one has gone exactly in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Minus 3 percent!]] We have essentially kept ourselves, but because of us, Mr Cap, so that he can lure us, one has not come to the government. Believe me! But anyway, the greens have lost half – I think – or a little more, and exactly in this direction was One, and that has gone in. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: 2 percent!]] Therefore, when Wabl kneels down and spreads his hymns on one side, one sees that this change from voters to the left is far from the end. Then, of course, you have to say a little bit to the Federal Minister. It was interesting what he gave for the best, but he also reminded me of the old joke song, where the Hungarian manor explains to the home-coming Count, what is going on, again and again: "All right, Lord!", and yet some disaster occurs. In your statement, Mr Federal Minister, you have always had the impression that you are actually reporting from another country, because, in fact, with our national defence, it is by no means as good as one could have believed if one had listened to you. In telegram style, I would just like to repeat some of what has already been said and what shows that it is badly ordered about the army and the national defence in Austria: We don't have enough military officers. Anyone who claims the opposite is simply lying in the bag. It is true that the maneuvers – the maneuvers of the military academy in Tyrol have already been mentioned – have previously been brought together from two, three units of 5,000, 6,000 practitioners. Two dozen units must now be tried to bring together 2,000 practitioners. It is also true that when the evening dawns, when it becomes four o'clock in these or other exercises, the military and a few militants, who actually come from other professions and not always voluntarily to the exercises, stay alone in positions, while the professional soldiers – subofficiaries and officers – take their briefcases, as they belong to an Austrian official, and withdraw. Your working time is over! The simple soldier remains in the cannon, in the Hole or position, and the others go home, because there is no money for overtime. We experience that one of the parades – such as the previous parade on the occasion of the takeover of Lieutenants to the army in Wiener Neustadt – says the explanatory officers at the gallery: Look, this unit has enough vigilance, there are those six or eight men sitting on the gun that belongs there, the other has so little, there are only two people sitting up there. This is of far-reaching consequence. I don't need to explain to this body why and why, but it was clearly visible: There are just too few people. This is the fault of civil servants and others. But it will certainly be so that the machory, which many who want to prevent partouts, will not be feasible for women to go to the army, although they want it. It will be in the long run that women will prevail with their legitimate concerns – there too! – that the machos will not be able to resist this in the long run and that the army will take up women with open arms because it simply needs them because there are not enough men. We hear that the interceptors, the fighters, SAAB 35 will have reached their expiry time in a few years. Even today, it is complained that one will then buy new ones. – After hopefully soon and hopefully neat! Anyone who doesn't want it has a short memory. I should like to remind you that a few years ago, when the war was burned directly at the Austrian border in Slovenia, a fighter plane of the Yugoslav Air Force was flying to Graz, apparently trying to do everything that the Austrians can do. That was the same day that one could watch on television, how just beyond the border these machines were shot off with Bordracette vehicles – civilians and possibly others. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Then – small in number – the Austrian SAAB appeared, and away was the ghost of Yugoslavian combat machines, and it was the situation there corrected in a very positive sense. We come to the problem of the parade. To prevent the parade was a goal of certain circles, which are also strongly represented here in the house. It was psychologically well exploited. Every individual and every organization has the need to be able to present itself with everything it has and what it can. If the army, a structure of tens of thousands of people, takes the opportunity to present itself properly once, then it is difficult to understand it in its own understanding. And that was probably the intention. The parade itself has become a triumph for the army and for those who think well with him. Hundreds of thousands have fenced the ring road and have given the soldiers the same condolences. At the time, however, evil tongues – rather already on Heroes Square – claimed: The army has no cannon younger than the Minister of Defense. It will have cannons younger than the Harald Ofner or the colleague Gaal, but there will be no canons that are younger than the Werner Fassleven. [[Abg. May. Main: A compliment!]] I was happy about the parade. I was especially pleased about the meeting, because this is timeless modern. But I was ashamed of myself the same evening, because I was looking for and also found coverage of the parade from broadcaster to broadcaster in cable television. Foreign countries have reported in detail on this. The commentators were – in the positive sense – "way" about what attitude and with what consent the Austrian army was on the way. They were, however, inadvertently horrified by the obsolete material that was transported. It was said that the Austrians risk putting their sons' lives and health at risk because they are on their way with museum mature material. – You have to hear that, and you have to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then the Bosnia-Hercegovina comes – and there comes the hour of revelation very quickly. It is heard that 45 or 50 percent of those who have volunteered and have not been able have been commuted. Of course, most will have just been too thick, but soldiers in responsible functions should not have a stomach that prevents them from moving accordingly. The helmets didn't suffice for the responsible, they didn't have enough space for the splitter protection vests, they didn't have enough equipment for the transport vehicles, and there had to be bought someout over the night – fortunately, but much too late – helmets and splitter protection vests; and then these Kevlar additional tanks against mine hits and similar. There's a little bit of a history-consciousness coming into your mind at times. For years there has been a discussion in the army, the helmet that is currently common in the Western area, which we can see everywhere and continuously about CNN, which is not by chance called "Fritz", this helmet, which is currently the best helmet in the world, is also introduced in Austria. This must have failed so far because it has been said from a very specific point of view: He looks so similar to the helmet of the German Wehrmacht! The Austrians cannot believe that they are putting up such a thing and that they are looking at such a thing! – Dearer a helmet that is impracticable, can bring death and injury than a helmet that you wear all over the world and claim to be similar to the helmet of a once beaten army of past times that has served criminal purposes! But then came the hour of truth, then all of a sudden the helmet had to be there, because it required the others, ladies and gentlemen. And then politicians say: We have a safe task, only the transport is to be achieved. They completely ignore the fact that in the event of a threat to Bosnia, a transport unit is much more dangerous than a presumptuous combat unit – with which no one will get involved, because there are only blue eyes. But in the case of a transport unit, the ability to defend itself is relatively low, and there is something to get, because every vehicle that you can exploit there, turn it off, clear out, there are values that you may need. The speaking time is running away from me. I do not want to close without having to deal with the Minister for the Interior. Mr Gaal explained that he was not allowed to be blamed. "The attacks are inadmissible," he explained, and there is no need to ban discussion. That is why I would like to say: The Minister of the Interior of the Republic is not anyone. A private person, including a parliamentarian, can say to things that – like the state defense – are the carrying pillars of the state, what they want, can repeat it, and also in the public. But if someone is a Federal Minister, if someone is a member of the government – and also an interior minister! – then, as I see things, he has only two possibilities: Either he confesses himself to the pillars of this state and its existence – and this includes the national defense and also the army – or he withdraws from the function of the minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In contrast to others in this House, I think that Minister One is not a physical godship. I'm sure he's not. I've known him before. But if he assumes that, for what reasons – because he believes it himself or because he wants to please others – he can question what is important for the Republic and for all its citizens, then I can only say he is in the wrong place. Either he decides to take part in what we all want to carry and carry, or he withdraws from this position! - I can only repeat that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10123	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Tychtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10144	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is necessary to insist that we Social Democrats commit ourselves to military national defence, for security policy and for democratic reasons, and will continue to do so, namely to confess to us military national defence according to the principle of general military duty, and will therefore stick to the military system. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] It is clear to us that the military factor in security policy is no longer dominating, but security policy without defence policy is not possible for us in the longer term. It is therefore not a question of military operations in the classical sense, i.e. combat operations, but of the benefits of the military organisation for the use of disasters and humanitarian measures. In this respect, the Austrian Federal Army can be a very powerful organization. We therefore acknowledge the need for further development of this part and the need to ensure that these tasks can be carried out. On the basis of the legal provisions, we are therefore also committed to a socially acceptable symbiosis between military and civil service, which ensures the number of ground military servants required for military defence, but at the same time acknowledges the undoubtedly important activity of civil servants in the community. I do not think that there are too many differences of opinion between the political groups. We Socialists therefore call for further intensive reforms in the fields of training. I think it is particularly important in the field of training that we are dealing mainly with organisational matters, which can often be achieved with low financial use. There are many examples in the past of where this has already happened. In this respect, we need to move forward actively. In this context, I believe that the communicative and motivating role of team work should be given greater priority in order to give opportunities for creativity and self-realization. This also applies, of course, to batches and to cadre staff. We are therefore in favour of high-quality training corresponding to the requirements of time, because we believe that this is the basic prerequisite for positive human leadership. Education and didactics must be taught accordingly to ensure that trained training staff are available. It should be possible to ensure a modern and up-to-date training company through mandatory supervision of the service, as well as accompanying pedagogical control. We believe that this can also help to increase the appeal of the federal army to our younger people, so that the federal army is better accepted. A comprehensive management and training programme for the training framework is intended to be ensured through qualified educational training, so that the personal development of the trainer is ensured and the social competence of the trainers is promoted. There are enough examples from the recent past of where this social competence of trainers has left much to be desired. Only a few days ago has a very sad example been published in the media. It is equally important for us, however, to have a comprehensive modernisation programme. I believe that, above all – in this respect, we have already called for a lot in the past; I would like to do this today – is about accommodation. That's a point we keep catching up with. I also do not want to allow this opportunity to pass without referring to the accommodation which, in part, could be designed with less resources but good will quickly in such a way that our young and older soldiers find the conditions they need for the service. But this also includes – I come to the military field of training – that the acquisition of simulators, i.e. training equipment, is continued because we can save costs. If costs are to be saved, then you should use this option. The focus should be on improving the quality of man equipment and protecting the individual soldiers. My previous speaker pointed out that already in the past it was repeatedly called upon to finally acquire helmets and scatter protection vests. It is unfortunate that there was an occasion like the use in Bosnia that we finally did so. It was so that the helmets and scatter vests were bought only when soldiers were actually sitting on the truck and, so to speak, looked into the eye for the first time at a potent enemy. Federal Minister! I would be glad if I were wrong, but I am convinced that I am not wrong. If it can be said here in the future that this is no longer an issue, then I am all the more pleased, namely for our soldiers who deserve safety. However, I also believe that at a time when savings are being made, we should try to award the orders if possible to domestic establishments capable of carrying them out. We need to use the Austrian economy more effectively than before and specifically attach orders directly to industrial cooperation, so to speak. If this is not possible, we have to deal with the procurement project abroad, which is already clear. I believe that a systematic and consistent policy could ensure an economic compensation so that the economic effects of the economy could be reduced indirectly. This has been discussed over and over again in the last few days. Another point, which is my heart, should also be mentioned here: the commitment we have been making for decades for peace policy. In our opinion, Austria's commitment to the United Nations should continue and its experience should be actively brought in. In cooperation with civil protection in Wiener Neustadt last year, the forces of the Austrian Federal Army demonstrated what the army has to offer, what it can do. We can also focus on this in the future and show that we want to use all the peaceful means for resolving disputes – including political and economic sanctions, if necessary. We should therefore continue to participate in such peacekeeping measures under the responsibility of the United Nations. However, according to our understanding, the participation of Austrian soldiers in such operations is only possible provided that the task is compatible with the defensive structure of Austrian defence and that the voluntary principle of participation is maintained. The participation of Austria in NATO's Peace Partnership in the areas of peacekeeping, humanitarian action and disaster aid serves to strengthen peace and freedom in the international community. To that end, we would like to say that for the future too. But we do not believe that we need a law of solidarity. We should wait for the new security structures set out in the large Intergovernmental Conference, and we will see them more clearly. Then we should deal with this and ask ourselves this question. In this sense, we should work for our federal army in the future. It has often done more in the past than was entrusted to him. We should try to improve the structures, the opportunities for each one – then I am not worried about the future of this army.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10239	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10260	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! As far as other urgent requests from the Liberal Party are concerned, this urgent request is indeed urgent, it has confirmed itself as such, and it is also important. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] "To the difference from others," you've been listening to me. It is rather rare that an urgent request from you is indeed urgent. It usually serves only the appearances of the Freedom Party in the absence of other possibilities. The urgency has been so clear because it was urgently necessary that our Minister of Defense Werner Fassleven represents the state of defence policy in all clarity and precision – he has done so convincingly. Some have – and I would like to stress the importance – had a need to catch up on defence policy and to know everything now – up to our chairman in the Defence Committee, Mr Scheibner, who seems to have some information leftovers. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we had to hear in this urgent and important question that we should be without a defence policy in the future – I refer to Mr Wabl's statements or to certain intentions of the Social Democrats that thank God not the members of the Defence Committee. It already testifies to a high degree of blueness, to think all the conflicts passed through Austria, we need nothing to do, because we are neutral, we are dear, we have the Vienna singer boys, we have Schönbrunn and similar important things, no one will hurt us at any time. That is why we do not need to stand up for the security of Austria and do not have to equip our military. - Please, this without the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our country's security policy must take account of the new needs, of course. Mr Fassleven has reported in detail that we have also taken account of the new circumstances, namely decentralized instability, and are among the first European countries to address this new situation, in line with this new threat picture. Now, of course, it would be easy to say: We are facing changed defence policy and geopolitical conditions, but we have an answer that will apply for the next 40, 45 years. Ladies and gentlemen! We are living in an extremely rapid, fast, moving time, and it will not be possible to answer it only, but we must show flexibility. We must constantly adapt to new circumstances, and therefore we also have a flexible system to offer. I would like to remind you that, as a contribution from Austria to this European security architecture, we have introduced the new HGs. I should like to remind you that priorities have been set in training and equipment, that the firepower has been taken into account and that the demand for modernisation of communication has also been followed by appropriate investments. Ladies and gentlemen! Wherever the Austrian Federal Army was necessary and demanded, because others could not provide the appropriate help, the Austrian Federal Army has put his husband. Whether the assistance was, nationally or internationally, whether it was disaster aid – we have to pay a lot of credit to each individual soldier and to the entire federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for us to have enough basic defence servants to be able to meet a comprehensive national defence, it was of course necessary to implement the civil service system of a corresponding reform. The main positions are agreed on in large-scale coalitions. I am glad because serious uncertainties have been overcome. With the 12 months of civil service, I believe we can find our way out and reach a sufficient level of presence. We have created the possibility of making a decision to serve the national defence or not. The young citizen is not only obliged to stand for national defence, but can also provide civil service. We have made this choice possible until the convocation; until the convocation, the basic defence minister can decide. That, of course, at the time of the convocation can no longer be taken into account if the young citizen can no longer agree with his conscience, because he may have been called to Langenlebarn or elsewhere. In my view, a great advantage is that this paper has been negotiated with our Minister for Defence Fassleven and the two clubmen, so that we can rely that this will also be valid for the future. Some thoughts about intellectual and comprehensive national defence, because this is a personal concern to me: not only because it is enshrined in the Constitution, but because we have to provide both military and spiritual defence, economic and civil, but because tendencies that we have to counter. We are still in need of resurgence in the field of spiritual defence, and it is our task to establish the need and the social value of the federal army in the population accordingly. Now the Minister responsible for Internal Security, Minister, says that the task of the Federal Government could also be dealt with by police and Gendarmerie, that police and gendarmen might be given a second gun and a second gun and then they could take over the national defense. – Does not the responsible minister for our security undermine the intellectual defense? Is it not by this that He gives her a value that is extremely distressing? – His contribution to the state defense was the diffamation of an entire profession! Ladies and gentlemen, such a statement is not only worrying and scandalous; we must be very concerned. If I now consider that in the Ministry of the Interior Gendarmerie, police, criminal police and border control, all those who carry uniforms, should be in one hand with the German army, then I must say that this is also politically dangerous. I discover here an interesting parallel: Has it not been in addition to the one who spoke on the outside of the left – not on the left: on the left: on the left, Mr.Federal Minister Einm – a similar voice on the right side? Was not Mr Haider's statement similar to that that he also wanted to put together the Ministry of Interior and Defence into a ministry if he was involved in the government? – So here the left and right sides almost meet. This is a very interesting development, ladies and gentlemen, which we have to oppose. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Col. Ofner, you can also praise your 38 years of marriage as a nice example! You have applauded the statements of the Federal Minister. You have forgotten, however, that the Scheibner spoke first, and there was not so much applause, for he has told other stories. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There's no one with you at all!]] He said that these 38 years you spoke of today were not so peaceful and so nice. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There's no applause at all with you! Let's go! Let's go!]] [[Ironic condolences with some members of the FPÖ.]] - Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: I believe that the Austrian defence and security policy, with the new HG and adaptation to the new decentralised uncertainty factors, has taken the necessary consequences. With the Solidarity Treaty and the Foreign Minister GREIF – to equip our federal army, to have it available quickly at the border, to present it in order to implement it, to integrate it and to keep it flexible – the security policy is answered accordingly. We from the Austrian People's Party make no doubt about the Austrian state defense.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10343	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10364	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The debate on this urgent question on security policy is very controversial. This is no damage at all; the positions are really considerablely different, not only between government and opposition, but there are also different ideas between the opposition parties. But what is particularly important – and I believe that this must be pointed out – are the massive differences between the two government parties on the issue of security policy. This is a very negative result to be put to the test; in particular, because we are just before the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference and it would be very important for Austria to enter this Intergovernmental Conference with a somewhat consistent security policy. I very much regret that by the hour, until a few days before the formation of the government, the positions of the two government parties on this central question are as far apart as they have been articulated today. If the Minister of State for Defence makes himself quite clear and repeated today – he said literally: We want to go to the Western European Union, we want full cooperation with NATO in the follow-up! – in the direction of full membership of NATO, this "we" does not stand for the Federal Government. I really think it is hard to bear that in this situation, we must deal with such a contrary security policy basis. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as clearly as the Minister of Defence has said today, as far as Western European Union and NATO are concerned, the positions of the Socialist Party, not only the interlocutor, who has said this clearly today. It's going a lot further. I quote: "SPÖKS secret preparations to the army for NATO." – That was a headline in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" not too long ago. Colleagues: At European level, he knows exactly what he does not want, namely "the accession to the Western European Union or NATO in the present form." Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky, who at regular intervals would prefer to have a ban on discussion on this question at all – no, I am saving it now. You all know that. You see that we are dealing with two extremely contrary positions on this issue. We must therefore also not be surprised that, at the end of the day, there is a massive uncertainty about the future of security policy in Austria in the army and in the army itself. In this context, I would like to draw out something very interesting in terms of democracy. That this controversy is present is not to be concealed. And how does the Federal Chancellor react? How does he want to solve that? He proposes a Security Council. Now a Security Council is an instrument that serves to create executive efficiency in other countries in order to react quickly when a crisis situation has occurred. The Federal Chancellor is now proposing a Security Council consisting of government members and senior officials. But what are they supposed to do? – You should develop the security policy concept! I would like to reject that very clearly. In particular, on fundamental security issues, it should be obvious that the parliamentary level, involving the opposition in the – hopefully perhaps consensual – education of will towards an Austrian security concept, is working. I really think it is a blow against parliamentary use when fundamental questions are shifted into a secret policy, into secret bodies and not dealt with where they belong, in the parliamentary public, so that the Austrian people can take a picture. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this context, I think it is also difficult to find out from the paper that, in connection with the NATO partnership, the Foreign Minister announces for peace, to which military exercises we commit ourselves to what potential quotas, without having been discussed in this House before. And that in such a sensitive situation and on such a sensitive topic! And then we wonder that the Austrian public is absolutely uncertain on these questions, because discussion and consensus work is refused. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Now on the issues of content. I would like to begin by saying that, particularly on the part of the Social Democrats, but also the Greens, a security concept is being put at the forefront, which more dims the situation than brightens it up. It is criticised that people are talking about security and therefore always mean military, where there are so many other security needs: ecological, welfare-state et cetera. That's all true. But it is not the core of the problem we are discussing here. Of course, we know that security is something that must be able to take advantage of the military as a ultima ratio, that long before this is the priority of preventive security policy, which must not at all attempt to create conflicts that must try to re-evaluate conflicts which have been broken down in a peaceful, political way and perhaps also with appropriate political pressure. All of this is a completely clear story. But we should not push this very broad sense of security and these very far-reaching security policy measures into the area of military security policy debate, because it is an ultima ratio which we also need: as the last instrument and hopefully not to be used to secure peace and preserve sovereignty. I would like to draw this out quite clearly. I sometimes have the impression that we are talking about all possible security needs, which are real and which also have their rights, so that we do not have to discuss, as far as possible, what we are talking about today, because it is unpleasant and unpopular. That's the first point. I therefore believe that, as the next step, we must be clear as representatives of the Republic of Austria that we were actually faced with a security policy release when we were faced with the question of whether we would join the European Union or not. That was the time when we had to decide – including in security policy – which way we are going: Let us move towards a Community security policy, which is also to be called solidarity, where we join forces with others in order to bear these security loads together, or let us continue to build in the case of neutrality in the case of national, in the case of Austria Security policy? This release has existed, and we have gone the way towards the European Union. And it is still not the courage to say, in all the clarity of the Austrian population, that Austria is familiar with the accession to the European Union of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and has also committed itself not to cross the finality of this common foreign and security policy, its political objective towards the European Union's military security instrument. Austria has committed itself to this. That is why the whole debate on neutrality is one that is basically no longer to be held. It is a piece of art, an ideological acrobatics, which we experience in Austria almost daily, that one says – I now rather speak to the Social Democrats – that is, the neutrality is naturally held and it does not change at all; the other, the Austrian People's Party, on the other hand, say: Of course, we will go to the Western European Union. There is even a statement from the Minister of Defence that, although we join NATO, it is somehow compatible with neutrality, unfortunately I have not found it in the hurry. Of course, this is all ideological brimborium, because the truth is: If a security and defence policy is made, then neutrality is no longer a place. This is reality; we should take note of this and say it openly. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As I said, The decision was taken at the moment when we decided for the European Union. Since Mr Federal Minister and National Council colleague I should like to take the opportunity to comment on these fundamental issues. I believe that its statements are not dangerous to the state – the Republic is not so weak as to be shaken by an article in the "profile" in the fundamental festivals. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: The Minister of Defense said it!]] Only I believe that his theses are largely fundamental. That is the central point, and I would like to address it in detail. His fundamental error is – and I assume, Mr. Cot, that this article is really authentic in the "profile" – that he says: There are two patterns to deal with conflicts: either you look at them or you intervene – a thesis that is superior. Only: The neutral is the one to whom the right hand is bound and who has to be inactive. Of course! I'll give you an example. Let us assume that Hungary or another country – I expressly emphasize: a theoretical case – is going into a conflict. What happens in this case if we keep neutrality high? – Then Austria is obliged to equal treatment and is therefore inactive in this case or comes into Iraq-Iran difficulties. First mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Nickt.]] Second error: There is now the Luxembourg syndrome. That's what's ghosting around. Austria says – and I also put this prejudice in this case – that: Our country is so wonderfully located, if it is possible that Slovakia and Hungary will also go to NATO, well wonderful! Like Luxembourg, we are an internal country. It's wonderful, so the case is done for us. Kostelka also said so beautifully in a press interview: After that, it would be a beautiful perspective. Only: This is, of course, a fundamental misunderstanding of integration. It is quite clear that, as a European domestic like Belgium, like Holland, we must, of course, carry our share of the burden – both political and financial, material and military – of a common security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Yes, I did. No, it's not inside. I'll be right there to your next mistake. They believe that the security police can solve the problem first. [[Abg. Dr. One shakes the head.]] This is, of course, a mistake when we never know how much security is needed and how necessary the efforts are. And there is a bit better security police, at all, an idea that brings with it a fundamental misunderstanding, namely that we would be able to deal with such units of conflict situations. Military actions usually take a very long time and require a long period of preparation. Finally: A very essential error is to believe a quick group of invaders... Yes, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] But that means military structures of a considerable scale. We must also take note of that. We are in agreement with the professional army again. Finally, I would like to say: The statements of One is a very good example to show what the basic errors are. I am sorry that this concerns a member of the government, but I believe that we should enter into this discussion. It is essential that we first produce the security consensus in this country, second, that we actively cooperate in the European security structure, shape it and not wait until it is finished, and then say: Yes, unfortunately, we must now! what is happening very often in EU policy. If we have explained this, we also know what military structures we need, what military constitution we need, how strong we must be, and what needs arise specifically for the federal army. In this order we should deal with things, and if today we perceive this discussion as an opportunity to become aware of these needs, then it has fulfilled its purpose and purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10456	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10477	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a motion for a resolution which is very important to us. It concerns a group of persons who are still being criminalised in connection with military service in Austria. These are members of Jehovah’s Witnesses. I say in advance that I have no sympathy for any sect, nor for Jehovah’s Witnesses. But I see neither a clear difference to dangerous structures, to institutions such as Scientology, which I consider neither a religion nor a sect, but an economic group acting with psychological management methods. But, as I said, I have no sympathy for Jehovah’s Witnesses as a group or as a sect. However, I think it unbearable for these people to be detained on the basis of their convictions, to be criminalized in a Europe in which this is only happening in Greece, otherwise in no other European state. I believe that Austria should not measure up to this tradition, but rather keep pace with democratic practices: that it is a very high degree of tolerance and that religions, with religious communities, whether they fit one or not, should be handled in a tolerant way that allows them to implement their central principles of faith. This right is denied to Jehovah’s Witnesses in Austria. Last year, 48 members of Jehovah’s Witnesses were called up. Everyone refuses to follow this call, and everyone has been confronted with criminal persecution. I would like to make a motion for a resolution, and I would like to ask you, since it is a really small group of people to agree to it. I believe that especially if you are against the sect, you should not upgrade these areas by criminalizing people. This makes them only martyrs. I would like to put it to the vote on this motion for a resolution, but the previous debate causes me to say a few words to that effect. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Dr. Fresheners have meant that they should not mix the ecological and social images that exist in themselves with the classical military questions. That may be true. There is no doubt that the population is particularly insecure and at risk – and this assessment also shares the national defence academy – that ecological disasters can threaten the escalation of nationality conflicts and that people are caused by existential poverty or political persecution to leave their home countries in greater numbers, perhaps also causing a sense of insecurity among the host countries. There is also the classical military discussion. I now think that the ecological social risks are far from being overcome and that the other area is being overshadowed, but I also want to devote myself to this area. I believe that the war in ex-Yugoslavia, the war in Bosnia, has been used to achieve what I believe is no longer what the youth no longer wants. Fresheners have meant military strategies and military "solutions" – under quotation marks – could only be Ultima ratio for every reasonable person anyway. I believe that the Bosnia-Herzegovina war had to stand by in order to bring military solutions out of this remaining size of the Ultima ratio and to restore them to a prime ratio. We have been waiting a long time for the atrocities to be reported in an extensive way, and we have really used this war to make upliftment and military strategies again and bring them out of the situation in which they were already for many young people, namely, that they were really Ultima ratio. I personally also believe that there may be situations in which a certain type of violence might be the smaller evil. But if these strategies are used to stop taking place economic sanctions, social observations, the observation of human rights, then it will be dangerous – it will be dangerous for security throughout Europe! The war in Bosnia was used to speak very consciously only more about the upgrading of organizations and structures such as the WEU and NATO and to say: OSCE, UNO, they're not ready yet, they can't. They themselves say that they are not able to do so. They were not consciously able to perform the ultima-ratio function with a police-military unit – perhaps also violence. They have not been consciously able to fulfil this task, in order to be able to say: Yes, we need the classic, the big, the high-strengthened armies again. – That is what I consider to be the real danger of security in Europe! They say that these organizations are no longer purely military organisations. That may be true. But why not develop organisations which are quite clear that they are primarily civil organizations and can, like the UN, also have a military remaining function? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They also say that the proof that this is so democratic is the fact that Europe's oldest democracies are a member. That's no proof, Mr. Federal Minister. You will find in all democracies, including in the oldest, structures that are abundantly undemocratic, whether they are part of the school system in the UK or the execution of penalties in individual states. There are things everywhere that we consider from our point of view perhaps to be a retrograde democratic policy. Nevertheless: These are old democracies. A criterion would be to make a referendum on NATO accession and also on the question of an arbitrary task of Austrian neutrality. That would be a democratic process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To speak again in Bosnia or in ex-Yugoslavia: I am glad that it is now provisionally less murder, less slaughter than it was. But I fear, if not very soon, that genuine peace work by organisations such as the OSCE will be used by a common European effort, through a worldwide effort, then it will be at best a longer ceasefire, but no peace. So many people have been expelled, people from Posavina, Serbs from Sarajevo and many more, and they have not forgotten what has happened. You know from the history of Austria, you know from the history of the states involved in the Second World War how difficult it is and how many years and decades it takes to get over what happened. I therefore believe that it is an urgent task for Austria to devote itself to genuine peace work, and it would be an excellent follow-up to the work that Austria has already done in ex-Yugoslavia, namely to humanitarian aid, for which everyone and everyone in Bosnia was truly grateful and grateful. Federal Minister! The Greens are not in principle opposed to any collective security system. But the way in which it is happening now and how it has shown to my previous speaker is unbearable: that in a kind of hack between the government parties the neutrality is disassembled in a way. I remember – these were the first days and months I spent in this House – when we discussed the Gulf War, the transit licences for weapons. It was a very spooky session. During this debate, it was reported that the first bombs fell and fell. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You have charged the government with the prosecution!]] We know that there has been nothing better, Mr Lucisch. You know, Mr Luke, that there is a dictator sitting in the saddle more firmly than ever before, that he can commit new human rights violations every day, that Kurds, Shiites are threatened, that the ecological disaster has been a huge disaster, and that even in Kuwait there has not really been democratic conditions. What, I ask you, has created a classic military strategy there? – She didn’t really create peace. It has created a very, very lavish situation. But she may have just awakened the call for neutral states. Because there is conflict of view of the future that I see, the drifting apart of the so-called Western world and the Islamic world, the tensions of nationality in the former Soviet Union, all of which would require much, much more neutral states, not passive neutral states, but active neutral states that are committed to human rights than only Austria. I think it would be our job to advertise differentiated roles in the European Union within a collective security system. Why should there not also be members of a military alliance and those who take over the special crisis communication tasks? All over the economy, we are aware that special tasks are needed. Only in the field of security policy, there is the uniform tank ideology, which still precipitates a pseudosecurity picture. We are willing to talk about a collective security system – then, if it is structurally unable to attack, if it has room for neutrals and if it primarily serves to avoid crises and conflicts, that is, the social and human rights issue feels committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10555	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10576	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, I had the opportunity to attend the adoption of the transport service in Gratkorn. There were so many guests of honor there, almost more than conciliatory. [[Call at the Liberal Forum: Did there have any sausages?]] The idea would have been good, but it was a spoon dish, as you say in the military. But it was very important. [[Call to the ÖVP:... also the family members?]] There were also family members there. You've had the impression that it's a moment of history. The federal army is in the outlay. But I want to compare this with the issue of an antique business, where you give the best pieces in the edition to present them there, and in the business are the antiques and rarities. The people who were adopted there were very well equipped. They were very well equipped: with the modern helmet, with the modern splitter vest. But if you know what the remaining soldiers have to do with equipment, that's already happening. They had the impression that everything had been scratched together there, which conforms to today's standard, while, as I said, the equipment and the armoring of the remaining units is outdated. While the approved soldiers wore the modern helmet, the others – our comrade Scheibner has shown it – literally opened up the "shearing" for the next few years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Examples of the ageing of our equipment have already been mentioned. There have been many recent calls for help from officers in the media. I've got a newspaper report from the 29th. May last year, in which officers say: "Fight force significantly weakened. The qualitative and quantitative flaws in all areas of the federal army's heavy weapons have reached an extent which significantly affects the military force of our army." – For example, the officer company says that. And the press says: "Politics who want to continue to save the German army risk the protection of democracy, peace and freedom in Austria and thus the security of our people and give us international ridiculousness." Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the content of this article should be taken very seriously. The medium-term procurement plans or the procurement plans are so "secret" that the 120-billion-shilling post-purchasing package for the next ten years had to be learned from "NEWS" and, of course, the priorities of what really ought to be achieved are constantly changing, which is, of course, still another food for confusion. The Federal Army has given itself a slogan, which has already attracted Mr Murauer: "Save and help when others can't." – But I ask you: Who will help and protect if, due to the lack of equipment, the federal army can no longer be able to do so? – Therefore, the procurement must be made, especially in the sense and in order to protect the highest capital of the German army, the Austrian youth. If in the last few days two soldiers have frozen their limbs due to inadequate equipment and lack of training – here in the newspaper – the man equipment of the Austrian federal army is not the best testimonies! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU Government Conference is in the house. One of the main negotiating points will be the discussion and decision-making on a pillar of the future EU, namely the common foreign and security policy. Experts and exponents of the EU often point to the creation of a functioning security system, and this is also specifically demanded by Austria. I quote Prof. Dr. Stürmer, who gave a lecture in Graz, a member of the expert commission for the preparation of the CFSP, who says: "The degree of success for the 1996/1997 Intergovernmental Conference will not be the number of footnotes added to the Maastricht Treaty. The real question is whether Europe can become an international player or whether CFSP was nothing but a beautiful weather idea that does not hold any frost. If that were the case, the Europeans would have to ask the Americans for the protection they no longer want to give, or, better yet, they will have to ask the threats that have long gone to wait a little longer." Or: Mr Schneider says: "With the Russian card there is no trick to make. Austria's neutrality will have to weaken solidarity." And even Commissioner Fischler, who is actually responsible for agriculture as far as I know, is concerned about the security system and says in an interview: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Fischler is responsible for everything!]] "In the long run, Austria cannot afford to stay away from the WEU and NATO." Another article says: "Neutrality means black driving." We liberals are therefore of the opinion that it is really time to choose a clear line, to go a clear way and to make a decision on full membership in the WEU – and subsequently in NATO. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! 44 percent of the population are for a modern army, and 48 percent rely on the help of neighbors. The latter is an illusion that was then scattered. I can remember: As a single-year-old volunteer, I was just with the German army, and we were told that during the Czech crisis in Germany, phantom hunters were already prepared, who were supposed to have been marked with the Austrian Highness sign, that is, that foreign countries would have defended us in a serious case. – After that, it turned out: These were rumors that were presented to us to weigh us in security. It is precisely this illusion that has been preserved in much of the population to this day. 48 percent of the population still believe that the neighbors would defend us in a serious case. I think this illusion is obsolet. Mr Maitz said that WEU and NATO want to join us. I think that they do not want to do so because of the good substance of weapons and equipment that we want to bring into this organization, but because of our strategic situation and because of the fact that, in the understanding of our neighbours, we must be an integrated component of this European zone, this European security system, and because it has long been recognized that neutrality is obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I must also deal with the seven theses of the Minister of the Interior, who called for a discussion without a scam, and who, with his interview, which perhaps should not be overrated – although his ideas in his own series were partly referred to as "snapsides", has caused a wave of indignation to the exponents of the German army and to all those who have a serious and serious defence of the country. There are words against him that are very hard, such as "state-setting". Minister One was referred to as a safety risk and as a responsibilityless one with his statements. – Only the Federal Chancellor has no relevance to these statements. He says that this was a contribution to an internal Commission – probably a Commission similar to the Committee on Privileges, which we were allowed to discuss yesterday – that is, a contribution to a SPÖ-internal Commission, without any current relevance. – This is all the more dangerous because it shows that long-term objectives are that the SPÖ is consistently running the estuary and the abolition of Austrian defence in the long term. These words, these these theses by ministers One is not a unique slipper. There's a system behind that. It's all connected. This is an ideologically-founded system, starting with the promotions for the "tatblatt", the wide arch is exciting to the submination of the state defense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we see the need – and I believe we must also include the EIA here, which has found the hard words about the Minister – for us to stop this system of decommissioning our national defence by a minister, by a high-ranking exponent of the Austrian Federal Government. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite all those to whom it is really as serious as you have said here to go along with this request and fail to trust the Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to conclude with a quote by Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky, who, however, comes from a speech he gave on 26 May. 10. 1995 on the occasion of the so successful parade. Then he said: "I know that it is not always easy for the Austrian federal army to fight prejudices, animosities and even financial shortcomings. But the answer must be: Efficiency, sparing, motivation and organization, because there can be no doubt about the basic commitment. Whoever is Austria as an independent state, who acknowledges Austria's neutrality, must also provide for an effective federal army." Mr. Minister! Dear Federal Government! I don't think that's supposed to add anything. Make sure that a well-armed federal army is operational so that Austria's national defence can be maintained in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10705	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled in the course of this debate by Mr Wabl, Mr Kier, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on legal provisions for Jehovah's Witnesses is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The same applies to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mr Mag. Head and colleagues on the opening of negotiations on Austria's accession to NATO and to the WEU. The request made by Members Scheibner and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The last request for distrust lies in the desire for § 66 para. 3 to carry out the vote in the form of a nominal vote. This demand is also sufficiently supported, and it will therefore be done in this sense. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10740	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Ofner, in his speech, said that it was a high-quality debate because the urgent question by the liberals is put forward and implemented positively. After Mr Schöggl's speech, I think that Mr Ofner should come out here and make an actual correction, because I do not see what should be positive or constructive if, on this occasion, a motion of censure against the Minister of the Interior is tabled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Scheibner! You also meant that no one should doubt the need for these urgent ones, and I do not want to do so. Of course, this urgent is necessary, just something different than you see from the liberals. I believe that this is the last tactical attempt of the liberals to push a rope into the final phase of the coalition negotiations. Tactically, you may not have been worse off, but you were already better at times when you still had the chiefs. But Colonel Gudenus has agreed, and Colonel Moser has allowed himself to think again. [[Abg. Aumayr:... and to go into retirement!]] Therefore, I believe that tactics are wrong and failed. This battle plan, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is not coming up. The honourable Member, Mr Ofner, also found it necessary to comment on the election result – of course only that of the other parties, not their own. Nevertheless: It won't help you, ladies and gentlemen. You will be in the XX with this election result. The legislative period must live, and you will, with this importance, which the elector has given you, 40 mandates minus two, here in this XX. must exist and not have a meaning that you may have hoped for by other parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But we can still have and express an opinion!]] Nevertheless, the issue of "security" is a debateable one. It is our duty constantly to work, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the security of this Republic. The emphasis is on this. Many in this House are doing so, but others are only hurting themselves and alone at the demagogy. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Who?]] Others! Think of your own interpretations! For us, security is much more than military security. The honourable Member, Mr Gaal, has pointed this out very strongly, and the Minister has also outlined the geostrategic position. And this geostrategic position must be carefully and objectively analysed. That's our job. I think there is no doubt that the threats have changed. Today, it is no longer the subject of whether tank divisions could attempt to enter the area of Munich or Milan as quickly as possible. If we analyze our geostrategic position, perhaps a bigger problem will arise. A chicken from Russia is calculated with a possible number of 20 million refugees. [[Abg. Kiss: Who is that that reckoning? Incredible! Makaber! 20 million!]] – This creates the need for action, namely the need for political and strategic action. Our army is necessary, that is not a question. Our army is necessary in many ways. Their statement in the justification of the urgent questions: "Our soldiers have always proved their best in international performance competitions and in UN operations. Similarly, the Austrian federal army performs in the country priceless services: Border security, assistance and disaster relief would be difficult to deal with without our soldiers. All discussions on savings should also take account of the economic benefits of the people." – I can only stress that completely. But it does not degenerate us from the following question – and I continue to quote: "The question, therefore, cannot be whether we need military forces in the classical sense at all, but what forces are the appropriate ones that Austria can meet the challenges of the manageable future." – This is from the "Truppe Service 1/96", that is quite new, written by FruitdG Karner. After all, the "trop service" owner is the Republic of Austria. – This statement hits the nail on the head. Which equipment, which device is most appropriate? The aim is to assess the situation and then select and buy the device. Sometimes, Minister, I already have the impression that we are making it the other way round. First we select the device, which is beautiful and also useful, I already admit it, and then we construct the situation. You pointed out the artillery in your answer to the question. So you pointed out that you succeeded in multiplying the martial strength of artillery. – I’m allowed to philosophise from this pult about whether this is necessary. What do we need artillery for in our geostrategic situation? What do we want to do with it? – I do not suppose, Minister of State, that perhaps we are using the artillery against refugee flows. I am missing a scenario today, where I see a reasonable order for an Austrian artillery. So if you have an order, if you know an order you could give to an artillery battalion, I'm gonna ask him to tell me. However, we need mechanized forces in all cases – and that is out of discussion. It cannot be – and we have seen it in the Bosnia-Herzegovina – that weak armed forces turn off our soldiers. So mechanization is necessary. I fully support your decision to buy the wheel tanks. I hope that the first 68 pieces will be delivered soon, and I can also befriend myself with an extension to 200 pieces. I also think it is more efficient and certainly more sensible to send the steering weapons – as you mentioned – instead of tank battalions to the counter. The discussion is of course also to be held about the personnel equipment of our army. The staffing needs of 34 000 men or 120 000 men must be tailored to the tasks. Every company commander, every train commander, every staff member naturally wants more young men to go to the army. That is understandable, but often not feasible. This personal desire should also have been one of the reasons for the freedom of movement to discover a lack of security policy that is urgently remedied. With a motion for a resolution, Mr Scheibner and Mr Hoof believe that they will be able to initiate as soon as possible the legislative and organisational preparations which allow women to volunteer in uniform in all areas of the German army. This is so urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that the honourable Member Gaal gave his opinion a month ago. I would like to remind you of this because it was a statement of social democracy. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have rejected the request!]] What is the point of this decision? In principle, we can imagine that the army is being opened up to women, but we want to clarify some marginal conditions before. Women's military service is to be desired by a large majority of Austrian women. [[Abg. Scheibner: Voluntarily!]] Sure, Minister, there is one or the other woman – I'll come back to that – who wants it. But there are also many who do not want it, and there are also many who believe it would be a beginning of must. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is voluntary, my colleague.]] With the voluntary military service for women, there must also be no question of general military service and the military system for us. That too is to be considered. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell the One!]] Finally, and finally, women must be able to enter all the federal army's leadership at an opening of access to the army. There are very dedicated women, one of them is Mrs. Scherzer. I know Mrs. Scherzer personally. She's from Mistelbach, just like me. So I know her much longer than since she became famous in the Republic. I appreciate her commitment. [[Abg. Scheibner: She wants to become Vizeleutnant!]] That's what I'm gonna do. She has put it in the head, as Mr Scheibner has already mentioned, to become Vizeleutnant. I have the impression, Minister, that these activities, at least in part, were also promoted by the army and the ministry. In the "Kurier" last weekend was a long report. It claims that she has participated in the training for five weeks. According to my information – after I experienced this almost live, as I said – it was 14 days. Nevertheless, the question arises: On what legal basis can Ms. Scherzer serve 14 days in Mistelbach? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is really a question!]] – She has also received benefits there – that is exactly what we do not want with the woman in the Federal Army. Mistelbach's military practice square is about three kilometers away from the garrison, so it takes a nineteen-year-old in 25 minutes. The woman Scherzer was brought the back luggage to the exercises at the troop practice site, for the woman Scherzer was not reasonable to carry this back luggage. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is all kinds of things!]] – Ms. Scherzer was also stopped wearing the machine gun in the type of an MG shooter 2. That too she rejected, on the grounds that: She's not here for that. She finally wants to become Vizeleutnant. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Federal Minister! All of this raises the question: What status does Mrs. Scherzer have? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Nomen est omen – a joke!]] – About October, it ran around here in the Parliament in uniform; Mr Maitz and I were sitting at a table with her. [[Abg. Scheibner: Aha!]] Maybe I'm ore-conservative. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is all kinds of things!]] When I had five weeks of training and had to make the fidelity vow, it took a long time for me to get out of the barracks for the first time in uniform. But Mrs. Scherzer is walking around here in the High House in uniform. That's what I'm asking myself: What status does she have?, maybe also: How does she have this uniform? So we believe that this path is the wrong way for women to enter the federal army. We want a well thought-out arrangement. If I also read that Mrs. Scherzer has given up her profession, is willing to sell her house just to become Ms. Vizeleutnant – I would like to mention that she has three children – then I mean: That's not how it's done! [[Abg. Scheibner: For a year now we have been lying down, Mr. Cot!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! As we believe that there are too many questions in this respect, we are not in favour of this Horuck party, for this resolution of the Freemans. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e10997	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11021	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this urgent request to make a few points on the defence budget first. If you make the international comparison to the Wehrbudget, there is no doubt that we are in the back in Austria, this does not have to be discussed away. If you produce the popular percentage points, as measured by gross domestic product, we are at 0.8 percent in the last place. I do not make any sense that I would, personally for the security and for the protection of democracy, peace and freedom in our country at the Wehrbudget, would undoubtedly be in favour of a better creation, and would describe the financial framework that we have as a minimum. However, it must not be forgotten that, as an internal country, we are of course very difficult to compare with other countries. [[Abg. Scheibner: With Switzerland!]] Yes, there is Switzerland too, that's right. In addition, the comparison of gross domestic product must be very careful, because, of course, Austria is one of the richest countries despite the urgently needed savings package and therefore a comparison is often very difficult. However, despite the savings price at the Wehrbudget, I would like to point out the considerable improvements in the area of military defence in recent years. With the same resources, a number of modernisation objectives could undoubtedly be achieved. There has been a need for investment through savings in services and posts in central administrations. In addition, it has undoubtedly succeeded in achieving significant improvements for time soldiers, but also an improvement for ground defense workers by increasing compensation by 900 S per month. In my opinion, it is also particularly pleasing – as Mr Murauer and Mr Murauer have already said – that a reasonable solution could be found in civil service, a solution that can be accepted with good conscience – without a conscientious examination, because it then falls away. This is undoubtedly a reasonable solution which is being sought in the field of civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days and weeks, of course, movement has come into the debate about the German army, because Federal Minister for Internal Security, Dr. To one of his theses, his personal ideas on defence policy have been publicly announced. I was very surprised about these statements, which I would like to say here, of the Minister of the Interior on defence policy, in order to express them very carefully. Yes, I was actually annoyed and certainly cannot share these views. I was contacted in my capacity as an EIA executive officer by many of my colleagues, who have undoubtedly harshly criticized the Minister of the Interior for these theses. These colleagues – be it the Federal Army, the Gendarmerie, or the police – wonder why an Interior Minister argues against security organs, why an Interior Minister questions the existence of the Federal Army and how he can demand the abolition of the general military obligation, so they wonder how an Interior Minister can make such irrantious statements at all. The colleagues of the Executive also criticise the fact that the Minister of the Interior cannot regain the confidence of the people he has undoubtedly been extremely stressed by the "TATblatt" affair through such thoughts. This criticism of the thoughts, of the theses On one hand, defence policy comes very massively from the personnel representation, from the trade unions – whether by the federal army, police or gendarmerie – but not only from the side of the People's Party and from the liberals, but it is also clearly audible from the social democratic corner. I believe that instead of defaming an entire profession, it would be far more important to take measures against organised crime, because we know that we have an increase of 25 percent there. Urgent need for action – and that seems particularly important to me – is particularly evident in the area of addiction crime. If we look at the 1994 safety report now before us, a further 11 per cent increase in drug victims will have to be observed. We reported 11 percent more drug deaths from 1993 to 1994. . I therefore believe that there is enough scope for the Minister of the Interior for the fight against crime, the fight against addiction, the reform of the Stapo and the like. To defend the country: It is extremely important, in my opinion, that the German army should not be made poor, but that it should be made clear to the German federal army, which was commissioned by the Austrian federal constitution, that the interests of the military state defence are clearly and clearly defined and that, in the coming years, the steps and framework conditions referred to by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Fassleven, will be taken in the interests of the security of our country. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11071	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the words of Mr Ofner, whom he has deposited in his contribution to the debate. It is not, in fact, so obvious that a member of a party who makes an urgent request against a minister, or against the content to be represented by the Minister, is speaking for the Minister here at the Pult Party. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't bring those who are in need against the Minister!]] This is rather extraordinary, and I would like to say thank you for the fact that Mr Ofner has also done the right thing. Fassleven convinced here, and that was the essential thing on that day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister for Defence Fassleven – as was rightly emphasized by some of my previous speakers – also expressed a different opinion when they then put the SPÖ speakers on the whole issue of security policy, especially with regard to the external security of Austria. He is quite contrary to what has been said in so many speeches by Mr Schieder. But I believe that this is also the right thing to do in a coalition government to try to go a common way, to reach a consensus, to represent views that are convinced. I believe that Minister Fassleven and with him the ÖVP represent the more agile, the more active force, namely those who look into the future, while in the SPÖ there are the system-immanent forces to be found. We're going to get through with our line – I'm convinced of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Two aspects which have been somewhat lacking. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Whether NATO is such a future program or rather a relic of the cold war, you should also consider!]] – Mr Schieder! Six years ago, you would certainly not have said that a few months later, perhaps the East Block collapsed and the Communists were swimming down the stream. Please be careful with such forecasts for the future, Mr Schieder! . I have only drawn up the forecast that we represent the more advanced theses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: But you've made the prognosis!]] Mr Novotny! All of us will experience the proof of truth together. In two areas which have been somewhat lacking, a few comments on my part, especially from my point of view as a Turkish Member: The Austrian army currently stands in the sixth year of border surveillance at the EU's external border. It should be noted that the Burgenian element has never been lacking in all these problems, because the Burgenian population knows that it depends on the German army. With us, the federal army has something to do with it. With us, the people are proud that the German army is securing the border area and thus contributing to the sense of security. This is to be said at this point in the sixth year of border surveillance, after the German army has held 26 417 invadings of illegals during this period. Let us not forget this in this debate. The German army thus also serves the internal protection of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. We all come from different federal states and register what the German army is doing in the event of disasters. I have here a list of the Operation Department of the Federal Army in front of me, and then I read again, for example, to bring in the Burgenland Facette: In 1994, 1 870 free volunteer hours of federal military soldiers were carried out in the use of disasters in Burgenland. In the Styria it was even much more. There, for example, the German army has completed a total of 21 263 hours in the event of various declarations, in the removal of windbreak damage – in the interest of the population, for the Styrian people! – In Tyrol there have been 15 474 hours, in Salzburg 12 182. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These figures continued. For all those measures, for which there is no other organization, the Federal Army is there. That is what our Minister of Defense, our Federal Army, is true of our soldiers, a sincere thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I started with the Freedom Party and thanks to Mr. Ofner. But I wouldn't be I, I wouldn't end up attacking the Freedom Party with at least a slight loop. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Schöggl has here in a proven way – we know that, it is well-known, has often been repeated and always laughed by us – again and again a mistrusted request. This time the Minister of the Interior is one. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Minister is dangerous!]] To speak in the language of the Federal Army: This is a maneuver, and even a plump maneuver. Of course, the ÖVP is not available for maneuvers of this kind. We cannot, of course, give our consent to this motion for a censure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11214	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - I give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11235	Mr President. High house! First of all, Mr Kiss has been told that we are not submitting a motion for a censure against a minister who is on the ground of the Constitution of this Republic. It is not the first motion of censure, which Mr One of us has experienced, but the second one. I am going to remind you of how the Austrian People's Party behaved in our first request for distrust. And we don't bring in any urgent "against" a minister. If you carefully study the right to interact with this House, you will know that a urgent person to clarify certain urgent matters will be brought to a competent member of the Federal Government and not against a competent member of the Federal Government. But your attitude shows, for example, how sensitive you are already responding to urgent requests from the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! . I do not assume that the left side of this House today is thinking of a little more intensively dealing with the problem of the statements and the problem of the person of this Minister of the Interior. It is one of their thoughts that he carries their mind pure! – I therefore address myself first to the Austrian People’s Party. I should like to remind you of Mr Platter, who is one of the highly skilled representatives of the Austrian People's Party, who also have the courage here... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Sorry! I hope he won't hurt me if I praise him now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is one of those who have the courage to say something about what they are outraging about with this Minister of the Interior, and will do so even today, tomorrow and the next time, and not, like Mr Kiss, do a 180-degree turn towards the position of the National Council election. Mr Platter has rightly referred to the "TATblatt" donation, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you: It was the donation of an interior minister whose task would be to protect the police forces of this country from any left-wing radical and far-left scene that wants to fight regularly with the police. – Only this year at the opera ball, they were a bit harmless. – But this Minister of the Interior has donated from the private pocket for this "TATblatt" scene because it is his concern that the radical, extreme and violent thoughts that are represented in this "TATblatt" scene and are brought to the people through the "TATblatt" are actually promoted and come to people. I would remind you that during this debate in May last year, it became apparent how the interrelation of the Minister of the Interior Caspar von Einm – I call him so, because in the basic book he can be guided by the nobility predicate – how far back this interrelation of the Lord of One with the scene of terror, that is to say, to his municipalities of Friedersbach and Waldhäsel in the forest district, where RAF-Leuten was granted shelter, and then it became apparent that this Minister of the Interior, with one of the two assassins killed by Ebergassing, was in personal contact, in multiple personal contacts. I would remind you that this Minister of the Interior, Caspar, has denied it for days after the attack in Ebergassing, that there has been a political link between the attack and the culprit. He has denied this for days! And for days, he has been knowing about the perpetrators and knowing that these perpetrators are at least partially known to him, the names of these perpetrators, because he did not want the public to know about these things. I should like to remind you that this Minister of the Interior has made it possible for the third suspect, Bassam al Thaher, to escape, in an unprecedented disinformation campaign, from the fact that this man was able to leave abroad 13 days before my press conference. I would remind you that this Minister of the Interior, knowing that this man was gone 13 days before, tried to divert in the public with targeted misclaims from the actual circumstances. I would remind you that this Minister of the Interior was accused by his own left-wing friends in the scene that they should have been able to discharge the Minister of the Interior, because he was in trouble, to create a culprit who shouldn't have been the real culprit, one would have needed only a "cultor" for the public. Ladies and gentlemen! He has staged this over his left-wing friends, such as the lawyer Prader, the former green representative known as the attorney of Kurdish terrorists, who is known for defending a Dev-Sol activist – Dev-Sol is a terrorist, communist organization in Turkey – who in turn has been in direct contact with the Ebergassinger assassin scene, ladies and gentlemen. – All of this can be read in the criminal adjudication of the State Army Command for Lower Austria to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that the Minister of the Interior has tried to create a "cultor" over this lawyer and about the very obscene journalist Purtscheller in order to be able to relieve himself in public! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I would remind you that only a few weeks ago the Director-General for Public Security, for the second time, complained publicly that the police had been sent to the police in the investigation of the letter bomb attacks. – This Minister of the Interior is responsible to whom you want to hold today the barge you hold today for the second time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They will thus be directly responsible for the failure of the Minister and for the scandalous circumstances and events that take place around Mr Caspar's Minister of the Interior. They bear the political responsibility whether it suits you or not. Whoever holds the bar twice this Minister of the Interior has played every right to act against this Minister of the Interior in the public! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly significant and significant was the speech by Mr Kiss today, which I have followed with great attention. This Member of the European Parliament, Mr Kiss, does not at all generate itself for his 180-degree returns, which could not be sensational! [[Abg. Haigermoser: He turns a pirouette!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December 1995, Member Kiss gave a press conference. He rightly criticised there – I quote you, colleague – "the scandalous approach of the Minister of the Interior, who by instructions has made sure that the organization of the Kurds, the PKK, already identified by the OGH as a terrorist, and its subsidiary organization, the ERNK, which enjoys the special welfare of the Socialists, are no longer observed". Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this was that further research should be carried out until there are further terrorist attacks that can be clearly traced back to this office. – That is to say, in Austria we have to put a proper bomb in order to carry out proper terrorist attacks until the Minister of the Interior comes back to the idea of having terrorist organizations, which the OGH has already found in judgments as such to undergo police observation. The Minister of the Interior thus fulfils, according to Mr Kiss, in his press conference on 14 February. 12. of the previous year, according to § 302 StGB. – Ladies and gentlemen! I have now literally quoted from the corresponding press release. I got her here. Mr Kiss rightly demands that the public prosecutor record the persecution of the Minister of the Interior for the suspicion of criminal acts, ladies and gentlemen. – This must be done against the background of what he has said today, in real terms, on the tongue. This press release, written by Mr Kiss, says – I quote –: "The only sensible solution therefore appears to be his immediate resignation." – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen. And this man goes out here today and explains to the House that it is necessary to hold the Minister of the Interior, that the motion of censure against the Minister of the Interior from Coalition must be remedied! Three days before the National Council election, he speaks of resignation, abuse of office and prosecution of the Caspar of One, a few weeks after the National Council election, because government is just taking place, but calls on him to hold the bar and reject the freedom-free request for distrust for the second time. Mr Kiss! You should ask yourself slowly if you would like to be taken seriously by the voters at all! I ask you: For how stupid do you want to sell the voters, you and all in the Austrian People's Party? – You're blaming at every assembly like the pipe patches about this Minister of the Interior! I have experienced this even by ÖVP delegates, as they even insulted about him in the media. The Interior Minister was the favourite riding tree of the ÖVP delegates. – After the election, on the other hand, one goes and holds the bar for this Minister of the Interior and for the second time rejects a distrust of the liberals, ladies and gentlemen! Skill Are you still looking in the mirror? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You will experience that we and the electorate will repeatedly present this motion of censure – which is why we have called for a name-named vote – as proof of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You may also rely that this Minister of the Interior Caspar of One is worth gold for us in connection with your lamentable failure. He's worth gold for us! From this point of view, this Minister of the Interior on the Government Bank is priceless for us. Keep him on, he's priceless for us! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you, too, why: Because this Minister of the Interior will provide you with a proper cork every half year, and we will present a new mistrust proposal to you after every proper cork at his strange and obscene contacts in the scene! [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP, SPÖ and the Freeman.]] They will be reproached by every ordinary cork about the Minister of the Interior, such as former Minister of the Interior Lösnak, who has said that the statements of the Interior Minister's defence are blatant, or like the Minister of Defence, who says that this is dangerous to the state. – But it is obviously not so dangerous to state that one supports a mistrust against the Minister of the Interior! This Minister of the Interior will impose on you every six months the embarrassment that you must stand in front of him. Ladies and gentlemen! But I'm not at all sorry: Simpling You're not against the Minister of the Interior if you want to hold him! But if you're yelling, you'll serve him off! – This would be a political attitude – if you want to know what the Austrian People’s Party would have to do to be taken seriously at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you if you take your own policy against Mr von Einm seriously, if you take yourself seriously and if you take your own ministers seriously, who are talking about risk to state – at least a few employees among you, Mr Platter! – to finally grasp a heart and not to be forgotten... [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You won't determine who's decent!]] I didn't mean her! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Listen, Mr Maitz. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Maitz. Now I would like to ask for political discipline. Your clubman said yesterday: When the Stadler speaks, don't make calls, but let him fuck up! – Stop You're looking at what your clubman said, ladies and gentlemen! Hold on to it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Otherwise, Andreas Khol is angry with you, otherwise you will be moved back even further. There would be a place even further behind for you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Hold I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. But don't stick to the discipline of the political groups when it comes to speaking out of distrust to this Minister of the Interior today. Get a heart! If you feel committed to the voters and not Mr. Khol, give your support to the request for freedom of expression, and speak to Mr von Einm You don't have any faith!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11404	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. There are applications. I ask you to take the seats! We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each request separately. We are the first to vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert Scheibner and others on measures to improve the framework conditions for the Austrian Federal Army. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert Scheibner and others on the establishment of measures to enable women to volunteer in the German army. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this request give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we will vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Andreas Wabl, Dr. Volker Kierund Comrades on legal provisions for Jehovah’s Witnesses. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is also the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Scheibner and colleagues on the opening of negotiations with the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Austria to NATO and with the Contracting Parties to the WEU Treaty on the Accession of Austria to the Western European Union. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Scheibner and others on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs under Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitution. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council by way of Art. 74 para. I should like to begin by saying that this quota is provided for the presence of at least half of the Members. The vote has also been called for. This request is supported by 20 Members, and it must therefore be done in this way. The ballots to be used are in your pults and bear the name of the deputies, as well as the name "Yes" – these are grey wreaths – and "no" – these are the pink ones. Only those official votes shall be valid for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who agree to the motion for a resolution to vote 'yes', and those who reject the motion for a reluctance to put 'no' vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace them in due course. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11532	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur. Everyone has voted so that I declare the vote to end. The House's officials will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. – The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 9.08 a.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11566	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 158 votes were cast, 34 of them Yes and 124 of them No. The application is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker; Dolnschek; Tomb, groldish; Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meisinger, Mentil; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schöll, Stadler; Trattner, Trenk; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Anshober, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bartenstein, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Brader, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Ditz, Donabauer, Eder, Ederer, Edler, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischer, Freund, Frischenschlager, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gehrer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Haselsteiner, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber, Hums; hunters; Chapel, merchant, doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Climate, Konrad, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leiner, Luke; Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Molterer, Moser Sonja, Motter, Müller, Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Petrovic, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schlögl, Schmidt, Schohlen, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer. Request for urgent procedure Mr Rudolf Anschober, Mr Mag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, friends to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs regarding chaotic conditions in the electricity industry by example Lambach (183/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e11750	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 183/J. This question was also distributed to all Members in the Chamber. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12063	I give the floor to Mr Anschober's question and draw his attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, his speech must not exceed 40 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Haider did not express his distrust! Congratulations, Minister One! The Haider didn't call you distrust!]] [[Further calls.]] – Deputies! Please start with your post. They are called to justify the request, no one else.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12099	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can't serve with roses, but I can tell you the story of 50 days; It is now 50 days that in Lambach at the planned Kraftwerkbaustelle, peaceful, non-violent nature conservationists are trying to ensure that this nonsense project is not realized. For 50 days, these peaceful, non-violent natureists have risked their health. For 50 days they have been trying to make public information here. For 50 days they have felt incredible solidarity of the population. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Possessors! Paid property destroyers!]] For 50 days, ladies and gentlemen, this resistance has been maintained, and for 50 days, one of the most protected areas, one of the last natural river routes in Upper Austria, has been successfully protected from the access of construction troops. I'm still coming to your "payed property destruction," Mrs. Building Entrepreneur, concrete blender Maria Fekter. But that becomes a little more concrete and detailed. I was visiting these peaceful conservationists in Lambach yesterday in Mogengrauen and spoke with the nature conservationists, but of course also with the construction workers and the gendarmerie officials. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I found there a group of housewives from Stadl Paura who had prepared a peaceful breakfast – which unfortunately God was served directly on the construction site access – in the Upper Austrian national costume. – Mrs Fekter! It should be in favour of such an action. These women, equipped with gold caps, have shown where the regional population of Upper Austria is located. I have talked to the construction workers, but also to the gendarmerie officials who have behaved exemplaryly in these seven weeks, in these 50 days, who have repeatedly worked on de-escaling, who have repeatedly tried to calm down emotions and to avoid an escalation. I can therefore confirm to you that what is said in today's media is true: that, after 50 days, the situation on the spot in Lambach is in danger of escalating. An example: Yesterday, a truck driver, who had obviously thrown away the nerves, went off to a group of natureguards with his truck and could only be stopped at the last moment by an OKA servant. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: These are the ones who have been illegally sitting on the road!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kukacka! Perhaps you may not be interested in it, but I am very interested in whether this political debate is going to result in an escalation or not. I believe that it is the policy's task to avoid the foreseeable danger of escalation, to do everything that this escalation can avoid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Then they must comply with the laws!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the latest after 50 days and at the latest in the situation where one feels quite exactly that it is only a matter of time until someone on the ground throws away the nerves – I do not say, on which side; that can happen on each side now – this Parliament has the duty to take a stand and seek solutions that allow a political solution to conflict. Unfortunately, this was not possible on Monday, after the head of the state of Upper Austria had briefly come out of his position of inability to talk, the refusal to talk, and the call of a Lambach summit. I believe that at the next stage, namely at the parliamentary level, there must be an attempt to push forward a political resolution, a dispute resolution, a search for compromise. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Such a compromise is feasible, can be realized. Mr. Kukacka! Come to the construction site with me. Mrs. Fekter, don't just send your company's trucks to come. You yourself on the construction site and look at how much employment is being secured there at the moment. – Eight people are currently working there. This is the great employment offensive! Eight people! A dispute resolution, a compromise attempt, Mr Kukacka, might take four months – four months in which there could be no construction work on site. But is it not worth trying to settle a dispute in this sense, given the situation, that there can be an escalation there and, as I fear, will also come if politics continues to look ineffectively? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The housewives of Stadl Paura have also commissioned bodies – Mr. Kukacka, this also applies to you –: [[The speaker shows a little body with an impression]] "Lambach needs you" is the slogan. – Mrs Fekter, not your trucks, not your concrete, not your gravel, but you, with the attempt to make a political solution, realize a way out of this political dead end. Lambach needs every politician, every politician who is committed to eliminating the causes of this chaos, namely the conflicts in the e-business, the unexplained situation in the Austrian economy. Because that is the very core of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Lambach will need you today with a courageous, honest vote. For example, the Social Democrats will need Lambach today; the Social Democrats, whom I hope and expect to vote today as their dedicated colleagues in the Upper Austrian Parliament; the Social Democrats, whom I expect, will not vote in favour of their own SPÖ Landtag decision, which we are proposing here today. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Lambach needs in this situation Your commitment and your honest, courageous vote tonight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Lambach is a symbol, and I hope that today, with the Economic and Social Committee, we will discuss in detail and intensively the principles of energy policy and the problems of Austrian energy policy, which are the real causes of this conflict. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz leaves in the "Kronen-Zeitung".]] It is now in the right paper; there is always a lot about Lambach, and the energy shortcomings of this Federal Government are being addressed very precisely – I must say, in this case correctly. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: This is a specialist newspaper!]] – The Minister says that it is already a technical journal. All right, then, Mr Minister, perhaps this will be a change of mind in this detailed, long debate this night, and we will see it. We have a chaotic energy policy in Austria. We have a completely uncoordinated energy policy in Austria. In Austria, we now have the situation that, although we have a flood of electricity across the country, in which the combined group has to export massively with major national economic damage, because these exports have to be supported - the same situation as in the butterberg or the milk lake, a power mountain at the federal level - and at the same time state companies operating in this uncoordinated situation against the interconnected group, which engages in an open discussion with it and, in this situation, with additional own productions, ensure that the group will have to export even more than is already the case, as has been said, with severe economic damage. Mr Kukacka! I think I can devote more time to you in today's debate. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But please with more level!]] Mr. Kukacka! I have not heard your speech yet, so I cannot judge your level in this debate. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But I hear your speech!]] I know only Their press releases, and these are unfortunately God's from the bottom drawer. But there are also reasonable people in the Upper Austrian People's Party – for example, the Environment Council, who, with these developments, has anything but joy. If he did not have too much party discipline and if he were first Environment Councillor and only in second line ÖVP Party politicians, he could never and should never have voted in this state government for this project. I know that this is neither his attitude nor his attitude. But later on. It is always claimed that we need the Lambach power plant because we have to reduce foreign dependence. You know, as I do, that this power plant, Lambach, is producing the electricity it produces, for the first time in the summer months, that is to say to a situation where – not even you will encounter from the ÖVP – we have a huge power surplus. And in the periods in which there are sometimes actual supply problems and imports from abroad, i.e. in the winter months, this power plant will throw off extremely little electricity due to the extremely low water management of the Traun. – That’s the crazy thing about this project! That is why we have to produce electricity in a different way, with priority towards the winter months, if you are actually concerned with the energy policy question. But I doubt that. I quote you from the new federal load distributor, who says the following – somewhat dry but very correct – about the energy situation of Austria in 1995: Physical electricity exchange with foreign countries has been much cheaper in the case of net physical exports of 2 456 gigawatt hours than in recent years. Finally, similar net exports were recorded in 1988 and 1989, while Austria became a net importer of electricity in 1991 and 1992. In 1995, electricity imports fell by 11.5%. Electricity exports rose by 7.8 percent. Austria thus has a respectable electricity surplus, namely in an order of 2 456 gigawatt hours. 2 456 gigawatt hours! – Mr Kukacka, do you know how high the production of Lambach would have been if it had been built? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's being built!]] I don't think you know the numbers. It would be 71 gigawatt hours! 71 gigawatt hours with an export surplus of currently 2 456 gigawatt hours! And you really want to explain to the public that we need this power plant for energy policy reasons, that we need this power plant to reduce foreign dependence. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We're getting nuclear power!]] They're coming back with the nuclear current. This is a sign that you really haven't learned anything in this regard. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this situation, wanting to argue energy-politically, it is impossible because it contradicts reality, and therefore you have to go toward polemics, with simple housewives, nature protectors on the ground, citizens from Lambach and Stadl Paura from the Upper Austrian head of state as professional demonstrators, as paid demonstrators and protesters, and a bit of a still being labeled as Communists. A little bit will then be added to the "TATblatt" scene and we have already finished the brew – and you believe that the citizen will fall into it. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's not invented! It's all detectable!]] But this distraction maneuver, Mr Kukacka, is not going on. You do this only because you have no more arguments on this matter – I understand this very, very well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have a total chaos in the Austrian electricity industry. We have a composite company with significant electricity surpluses, and at the same time the national suppliers continue to build power plants. There are witnesses directly from the centre of this energy industry. Do you know what not even a month ago, just two weeks ago, the Board of Directors Dr. Herbert Schröfelbauer referred to the question of how this is about the dispute between OKA and the group? He meant – the energy situation of Austria is perhaps also a very interesting topic for a Finance Minister –: [[Abg. May. Climate is talking out loud with colleagues in the political groups.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] "The Minister has asked us – not the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs – to "do not carry out our struggle in the public." – That’s the situation! There is a struggle between the Group and the Landesgesellschafts, there is an argument about the market share. In a situation in which we have a huge surplus of electricity, a completely reckless, senseless project of power is being realized by the national societies. Mr. Dr. Zluwa, who has quite the say in the electricity industry in the Minister of Economic Affairs's House, was present at the same event on 7 July. ==References== "I'm only talking about the energy organization with my minister – and nobody else!" [[Abg. Wabl: A very loyal official!]] Now the Minister speaks to us, I hope. It will hopefully inform us of what it actually looks like with this struggle between the group and the national societies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was not even two weeks ago a conversation of the Auschützer, the Upper Austrian energy expert with the Federal Chancellor. It is precisely this point that the final effect was the point on which one could agree: that everything must be done to clarify this conflict in the Austrian energy industry, that everything must be done to coordinate this debate, that everything must be done, that the development plans and the energy economic impact of the joint venture and the national society should be agreed with each other. At the end of this discussion, the Federal Chancellor proposed the establishment of an energy coordination authority. I think this is an excellent proposal. That is what the Greens also demand. This is what the energy recovery agency, for example, requires. This is what all NGOs actually demand. That is what could at last end this absurd conflict between national societies and joint ventures. ==References====External links== February, two weeks ago, meant: "I am convinced that, in general, better coordination between energy companies is essential." And then we're going to go on: "In order to better coordinate the needs, investments, i.e. power plants, and services or procurement, many problems in the approach could probably be avoided. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since the statements of the Federal Chancellor for us Greens of course not empty words, but very often – at least in this case! – a direct, direct political mission, we give you in this House the opportunity to make and decide on this announcement by the Federal Chancellor here and today. We are therefore making the following request in this urgent question today: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! So simple it is to finally help the Federal Chancellor's will to break through. I am almost convinced that the Socialist Group here in this House will not desert its Chancellor and will, of course, help us to implement the will of the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But it is more about the whole reorganisation of the energy industry in Austria. We all know that there must be a restructuring of the energy industry in Austria with a clarification of the areas of tasks, with new legal definitions of tasks. It cannot be that the e-Economie de facto is only legally entrusted in the field of security of supply. We believe that we must go far beyond that. We are also hoping for some very concrete statements from the Minister for Economic Affairs today. But crucial is the question: How can the Federal Government make a very concrete contribution in the really acute case of Lambach? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! There is a law pass in Austria, namely the Austrian nationalization law, which here defines that, in larger power plant projects, the Federal Government can intervene in a coordinated manner and draw on the approval competence. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But it is already approved!]] However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not exactly defined when a power plant is a large power plant. Since the Greens are believing people – not only in terms of the statements of the Federal Chancellor; but they sometimes also trust the head of the state of Upper Austria – we have heard with great interest that Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer meant that Lambach counted among the 1 600 running power plants of Austria among the 100 largest. – If that is the case – I do not doubt that this is the case at all – then it is a great power plant. [[Abg. Wabl: definitely a big fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! According to this definition, Lambach falls under the national law, and the Federal Government would without a doubt be authorized to draw on the competence in the matter of Lambach. This would have a very interesting effect: This would be an opportunity to get out of this Lambach conflict in order to remove this issue of approval from the party area of the head of state of Upper Austria. Is it a coincidence that a head of state as supposedly independent approval authority will occur in the "Time in Figure 2" with the first four words: "We from the OKA"? – "We from the OKA"! After that he did not dementate or correct himself, he stayed there: "We from the OKA." Is that supposed to be an independent approval authority? This should not at least lead us to suspect that there is an incredible filtration of the largest party in Upper Austria, the Austrian People's Party, with the state energy company OKA, that there is an incredible filtration between the state captain party and the energy group? That is why we must believe that this was an independent authorisation procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, the solution to the conflict would be to enable this federal government to acquire competence, to rely on the nationalization law and to carry out a new fair, actually independent authorisation procedure. In order to make this possible, we have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That's just an audit order. This is not yet a decision that the Federal Government must do so. So to give the Federal Government the task of examining this question in order to clarify whether this law is true on this issue or not, should actually be a very logical procedure in this Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We are not for centralism!]] Mrs Fekter! This call is interesting, but I experience the politics of the Austrian People's Party exactly the other way round. It actually looks quite different in reality. The point is that Lambbach is a symbol of this coordination weakness of the Republic of Austria and its energy economy. The fact that a power plant project would ruin one of the last intact natural streams, an ecological area of European character, has been confirmed several times. It is a pity that the Minister for the Environment is no longer in the house. I am going to quote a question in which he has decided as a precursor to this ecological landscape and has fully shared our ecological assessment, just as his predecessors, Feldgrill and Rauch-Kallat, also the assessment of the Environmental Country Council of Upper Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Lambach is a symbol of the filtration of a party with the e-economics, in this case with the OKA, and Lambach is also a symbol of political unculture in a country. Because if, in a deep, serious conflict, a country captain refuses to talk for six and a half weeks, I speak of political unculture. If a country captain goes so far that he de facto finds: Landtag majority decisions of a federal country are mesmeric!, then this is a testimony to extreme political unculture. If a head of state delegates the competent national councillor for nature conservation by withdrawing from her the competence on the issue of approval and by delegating this question to a majority question in the body where he has the majority, namely the government, this is really the summit point of political unculture! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, the discussion about Lambach is symbolic, even for a country captain, who is not about a power plant, but about a political power act. It is no longer about a power plant discussion, but about the question: Can a man enforce and profile himself with a political act against the majority of opinions in his political body? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main point on the Lambach question and beyond must be that the coordination of Austrian energy policy is a serious one and it ceases to be of the same kind. There is no longer any dispute today that we have no power supply problem throughout Austria. However, it is argued that the OKA wants to buy less electricity from the compound. The ODA itself, in its opinion in the nature protection decision, notes the following: "It is one of the main business goals of the OKA, the foreign relationship ratio held for decades" – I note, from the group – "to achieve from around 1/3 again." – From the 50 percent foreign reference variant to a third. Can it really make political sense to be completely opposed and worked against at federal and national level? – This is political, economic and energy nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. Now on the last point on this energy policy question: It is always argued and reported that Upper Austria must reduce its foreign dependence on electricity. - We've calculated this very carefully. Do you know what this alleged foreign dependency Upper Austria actually looks like? Do you know how much electricity is produced from hydropower in Upper Austria? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Relatively much!]] "Relative a lot!", says Mr. Kukacka. He's pretty close to it. That was a pretty good hit, Mr. Kukacka! – In Upper Austria, hydropower produces the proud amount of 9 964,4 million kilowatt hours. Mr Kukacka, I now ask you: In your opinion, how high is the electricity requirement of the Federal Republic of Austria? Higher or lower? – It is significantly lower than what Upper Austria produces from hydropower. The Federal State of Upper Austria has a power requirement of 7 562.8 million kilowatt hours. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But you already know that Danube power plants belong to the OKA?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, Upper Austria needs 32 percent less than it produces. This federal state can therefore at present receive itself autarchically with hydropower. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! Since you argue that I have included composite production in Upper Austria, I tell you: Of course, because I think Austrianally and have to have an end to this operating slum mentality. Because this is the one that will bring us to a national disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The OKA has declining sales data. The electricity sales of the OKA have fallen by 2.5 percent per year in recent years compared with the assumed growth. Look at the statistics! In contrast to the forecasts, it has been steeply downhill in recent years. The OKA sells significantly less electricity, for the following simple reasons: First of all – in this respect probably quite at your side – some energy savings proposals and funding in the Federal State of Upper Austria are being accepted by the people. There are also sensible measures on the part of the Upper Austrian Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Secondly, this is the main reason; look at the quantities – a part of the large industry has gone into energy self-sufficiency, with quite meaningful projects, such as with power heat couplings, such as the VOEST or Steyrermühl. There are, as has been said, meaningful projects, and therefore the possibilities in the electricity market for the OKA are currently falling very massive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are always asked: What are your alternatives? – The alternatives are in the air in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Upper Austria is exemplary! Think of the Eberwang project!]] Mrs Fekter! I believe that you are not quite sluggish in this area, but perhaps in other areas, such as supply – not security of supply – of the power plant project with gravel and concrete. I think you're very well-informed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am happy about every project supported in the alternative energy sector. – We have resources and capacities that are huge. Look at the official statements! Especially today, the following statement was made by the Energy Consumption Agency: Only 5 percent of the biomass potential in Austria is currently being exploited – only 5 percent! Can you imagine what resources are missing, which is also a break in employment opportunities in the area of Austrian agriculture? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Which federal states are best? – Upper Austria and Styria!]] Second area: Wind energy. There are currently two useful projects in the field of wind energy throughout Austria, namely the Eberschwang project in the Innviertel and the Zurndorf project in Burgenland. These are the two most important projects from quantity. In the Burgenlanden Zurndorf one is currently in the planning phase for a wind power park – this is highly interesting – with a production of 6 megawatts and an investment effort of 90 million schilling. With 90 million schilling, an energy supply of 10 million kilowatt hours is generated. If you convert this on the basis that you want to generate the same amount of energy as in Lambach, then you come to the result: They would have this possibility, with about the same capital use, but with a very substantial difference, that the amount of electricity from the wind power would come first and foremost when the electricity is used, namely in the winter months. This would be interesting for energy policy, and therefore it is so incomprehensible that individual lobby projects for a very small industrial sector, for a very small area of the construction industry, will be set up public power acts, while such power acts, where alternative energy is calculated for a long time, always fail! The real situation is that there is still discrimination against alternative energies in Austria. This was also noted by the Minister for the Environment a few weeks ago, saying: In the field of energy saving potential, the energy policy of this Federal Government has so far not increased, it has failed so far. – He's right! The huge break-up areas of the alternative energies are scarcely exploited, the necessary favourable and fair feed-in tariffs are not given. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The OKA has the best by far!]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Economic Affairs has small contributions in the final effect when he has delegated these competences to the heads of state and to the electricity industry a voluntary agreement that is ineffective in the final effect. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, Environment Minister Bartenstein said – I quote literally – that "... the current energy saving measures" – also in the field of alternative energies – "are not enough to achieve the required objectives." That it would be possible to achieve the enormous resources in the field of environmentally friendly technologies and energy supply facilities proves to us a number of European countries. This proves to us, for example, Denmark, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In Denmark, total energy needs could be... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Listen to me, too! I'd love to listen to you too. Maybe there are a few arguments that seem logical to you as well. We do not have the public at this hour anyway, why do we act so vehemently to each other? Perhaps we could eventually come to a green branch in the energy field in this context! The total energy demand in Denmark has been reduced by 0.6 percent from 1980 to 1992. In the same period, it increased by more than 10 percent in Austria. This means that there are model projects, there are countries in Europe that, through investments in the field of alternative energies and through a comprehensive coordination of the electricity industry, have actually realized the potential potential for electricity saving and the new environmentally friendly energy generation possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate, we will also make a request for improved legal framework for the forced use of wind energy in order to make use of the topic of Lambbach for necessary and important reforms. We could now discuss, for example, the area of thermal insulation and the potential there. We could talk about what employment opportunities there are. We could also talk about the fact that there is a new study by the TU in Vienna, which describes precisely these employment opportunities with enormous opportunities and makes it clear that with investments similar to those in the nonsense project Lambach can be achieved a lot of jobs and a greater amount of energy saved. We could also discuss the Enns power plants about the fact that the Enns power plants can also offer enormous opportunities for improving efficiency through the modernisation of existing plants. [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] Yes, but it must be invested, Mr Murauer. You're not doing anything for the region! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The longer you talk, the more we are convinced that Lambach has to be built!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you a lot about the ecological value of this region. I could give you many quotes from the ÖVP Environment Ministers about the ecological sensitivity of this region. We could quote here the nature conservation notice which determines that this is a river of European uniqueness! We could quote the official notice of the country of Upper Austria, in which this is found. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you had only a minimum of interest on the issue and on the solution of the energy policy issue, we could put sensible initiatives and decisions in today's debate. However, I have the feeling that the Upper Austrian People's Party has buried itself in a justamental position – for whatever reason, it is the question of building companies close to the party's well-being, whether it be the question of various flows of money, whether it be only the question that a head of state wants to set a political power to profile itself. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We are at the legal position!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] And the tragic thing in this situation is that the purely power-political calculation threatens to prevail in relation to the ecological and energy-political sense. I hope that you will consider this in the context of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12546	Before asking Mr Ditz to reply, I should like to point out, Mr Anschober, that: You have tabled motions for resolutions in your statement. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the founder of a request cannot make a motion for a resolution legally effective, since this is according to § 55 para. 1 GOG can only take place in the course of the debate. The debate begins with an urgent question after the Minister's reply. If the Green Group wishes to have dealt with and voted on the motion for a resolution, it will have to submit it once again during the coming debate. Please, Federal Minister, you are now invited to answer the question.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12573	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's no question at all: Austria's energy policy is facing new challenges, and it is about ensuring energy supply at competitive prices, taking environmental aspects into account in a completely new competitive environment. However, I should like to make it clear here that I believe that energy policy must be more than prevention policy. It would be a trick to believe that the construction of power plants can be prevented without, on the other hand, increasing the dependence on import current. I think it is difficult to classify whether the imported electricity comes from nuclear power stations or other sources of power. I am in favour of exploiting all energy saving potentials. I agree that renewable energy sources are being forced. And I am in favour of doing so in the light of the criterion of competitiveness on the part of energy suppliers and the cost-effectiveness of energy users. – Of course, it is more often so that the aspects of economic and economic optimization are not identical. We must certainly think about how to improve coordination in this area. On the individual questions in detail. Questions 1 to 3: We are faced with the fact that Austrian electricity supply carriers are a number of companies whose organisational structure has been growing historically over the decades. Another fact is that these companies are privately organised and have to proceed according to commercial principles. In addition, from my point of view, more competition in the electricity sector is desirable. However, it is not to be denied that in recent times certain fractions have occurred between the interlocutory society and the national societies. [[Abg. Wabl: But this is very nice!]] Mr Wabl! But I wouldn't talk about a chaos. The interaction of Austrian electricity industry carriers, which has worked well for many years and is still present in many areas today, with the new situation in the European electricity markets – that is to mention examples, for example, the revolution that has caused the new gas turbine technologies, but also an oversupply of cheap electricity imports – must be developed organically. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us take care of central planning ideas and ideologies that want to shift responsibility from the companies to the state bureaucracies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This path of energy policy has led our eastern neighbours to the dead end. However, I will try, regardless of how the debate on the internal energy market is going on in the EU, to create framework conditions that take into account the increased competitiveness of the Austrian electricity industry and to link more competitive elements in this context with supervisory, control and coordination mechanisms of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I believe that more competition and increased regulatory supervisory mechanisms are quite compatible, the new system of energy supervision and electricity price monitoring. It is important to further develop the classical energy monitoring and control mechanisms and, in particular, to adapt them to the EU competition rules, e.g. in addition to electricity price control instruments such as concession for supply areas and the system authorisation procedure for electricity generation. We can certainly discuss whether the procedure is not only carried out at national level, but also at federal level. Other such instruments include the granting of authorisations for the import and export of electricity, the obligation to provide information for ETUUs and the possibility of viewing and/or the control and approval of general conditions of supply. Overall, the public obligations of the electricity sector must be guaranteed, which are summarised in the draft EU Internal Electricity Market Directive under the term "public service bonds". I hope to have answered your questions one to three with these introductory remarks. I would like to point out that the comments made on and not on the subject of parliamentary questions, but I would say that it is exaggerating to speak of struggle and chaos in the case of powerless power supply and a largely good interplay between the companies in the Austrian electricity industry. It will be one of the central tasks of the next legislative period to improve the regulatory framework of the electricity industry, and I believe that better coordination and the concentration of supervisory mechanisms should play a central role in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Question 4: Clearly, the tender procedure mentioned here is to be seen in connection with the ongoing discussion on the proposal for a Internal Electricity Market Directive. Since these negotiations are still under way, I do not see any reason for starting from the existing Austrian legal situation until the conclusion of the negotiations on the Internal Market Directive. Question 5: Work to strengthen the competitive elements in the Austrian electricity industry is progressing rapidly, ensuring that the proven thermohydraulic composite operation can be maintained, thus ensuring a wide-ranging energy autonomy and thus avoiding nuclear imports. In particular, at the initiative of Austria, the draft Directive on the internal electricity market provided that renewable energy sources and thus hydropower could be used as a priority in the proposed internal electricity market. Furthermore, I refer to the activities of Austria with the aim of a nuclear-free central Europe. On question 6: I do not intend to comment on the forecasts on electricity consumption prepared by the electricity industry. I would like to point out that electricity consumption is very much correlated with technological developments and, above all, with economic development. Questions 7 and 8: The question as to whether significant overcapacity in the area of the interconnector currently exists in relation to the available electricity volumes or the amount of costs incurred in the interconnector's field by the increased electricity demand forecasts is concerned with the orientation of the interconnector's business policy, i.e. a private legal entity, on which the Minister of Economic Affairs has no influence. On the question 9: As I have already said on the previous questions, the subject of a parliamentary request can only be a matter of execution from the field of competence of my Federal Ministry. Since the question of further power plant buildings by the OKA has not been raised to me within the framework of administrative procedures or is the subject of a decision by my Federal Ministry in the context of the private administration, I cannot comment on this question within the framework of the parliamentary right to interpolate. Question 10: The question of whether or not the Lambach power plant project can be classified as a large power plant compared to existing power plants is not clearly defined in terms of energy efficiency. A quantitative classification depends significantly on energy economic criteria such as annual regular work capacity, nominal capacity or catchment area or more. – If the standard labour capacity is used as a criterion for classification, but this is not the sole criterion, then the Lambach power plant project is about 65. ==References====External links==* Official website It would be considered as a medium-sized power plant. On the question 11: I'm not a determination of the 2nd. Nationalization law, which would allow me to intervene in the power plant expansion of the electricity industry in a coordinated manner. The so-called 2. Since November 1987, national law has been only the organizational statute of the Austrian electricity industry, which in particular regulates the division of tasks between the interconnected society, state companies and the five major state capital electricity supply companies and is based on the federalist structure of Austria. Within this framework, coordination instruments have developed very well between Austrian electricity companies, such as the coordinated development programme, as well as coordination agreements and the research programme of the electricity industry. On the other hand, the provisions of this Act cannot be taken into account by the Federal Government or by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Also the energy and constitutional and administrative literature of the 2. Nationalization law and the jurisdiction of the Supreme Courts do not interpret in the law any steering and regulatory powers of a central federal body. If you want the latter or if you want to, then you have to make changes to the current legislation. From § 4 para. 1 of the 2nd. Nationalization law must be followed by the fact that large power plants within the meaning of this Act are power plants which are not intended to fulfil the task of the Landesgesellschaften and not as self-sufficiency plants under § 1 para. 2 lit. b falls. According to § 4 para. The Federal Government, after consulting the combined company, decides, taking into account energy and hydroeconomic concerns, whether a power plant should be regarded as a large-scale power plant in the above-mentioned sense. With regard to the question of when it comes to a procedure in accordance with § 4 para. 5 comes with the following: § 3 para. ==References== Nationalization law assigns the task of implementing the general supply of electricity in the field of the individual Länder to the state companies. This task includes, in particular, the production of electrical energy. According to § 5 para. 4 lit. d 2. Nationalization law is the task of the Association Society to arrange the construction and operation of large power plants by existing or to be set up special companies. In the interpretation of § 4 para. ==References== It must therefore be assumed that a declaration to a large-scale power plant must be made only in cases where the construction of a power plant by a special company is or should be caused by the combined company. As this is not the case with the Lambach power plant project, the conditions for the initiation of a procedure in accordance with § 4 para. 5 2. Nationalization law on large-scale power plant declaration not provided. A consultation of the joint venture is therefore unnecessary. Furthermore, it is not surprising that the joint venture did not claim the Lambbach project for a special company. The last coordinated expansion programme of the Austrian electricity companies of the Landesgesellschaft OKA is assigned, which is obviously in line with the interconnected company. Question 12: I refer to my answer to Question 10, which makes it difficult at all to quantify according to the size according to energy economic criteria. If you now address caloric power plants, it should also be noted that the annual production of thermal power plants depends decisively on their operational characteristics and external framework conditions, so that a size classification of the power plant project is not possible according to this classification criterion or according to the nominal output. On the question 13: As mentioned in question 11, a procedure according to § 4 para. ==References== To initiate national law only in cases where the creation of large-scale power plants by the combined company may result in impairment of the tasks of the national companies. On the other hand, the conditions for the initiation of a procedure in accordance with § 4 para. are the conditions for the establishment of power plants, which are essentially intended for the performance of the tasks of the national companies. 5 2. Nationalization law not given. Therefore, a consultation of the combined company with regard to the new construction of Block B of the power plant Dwart was inconsistency. Question 14: The first formal declaration to the large-scale power plant according to § 4 para. 5 2. Nationalization law was passed in 1949 for the Reißeck power plant. The data of subsequent applications in accordance with § 4 para. 5 2. Nationalization law, which has been introduced into different projects, cannot be brought up at present. ==References== September 1981 to the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce and Industry, Donaukrafte AG has applied for a decision by the Federal Government in accordance with § 4 para. 5 2. The nationalization law states that the power plant Greifenstein and the further expansion of the Danube power plants as large power plants within the meaning of § 4 para. 1 2. Nationalization law. The joint venture has been consulted in writing. The answer of the interlocutory company by letter of 4. In November 1981, approval was given. The approval of the Federal Government is in the 110. Meeting of the Council of Ministers on 25 October. ==References== Tauernkraftwerke AG, by letter of 6. A request for a declaration of the Oberpinzgau power plant project was sent to the Federal Ministry of Trade, Industry and Industry on July 3, 1983. An investigation procedure has been initiated for this application. ==References====External links== January 1984 has taken place. In the course of this negotiation, the joint venture was consulted. At this hearing it was already clear that this project will no longer appear in the coordinated development programme 1983. On the side of the Osttiroler Kraftwerke GesmbH was written on 28 March. On 3 March 1986, the Federal Government submitted to the Austrian Federal Government a request to declare the Dorfertal-Matrei storage power plant a major power plant. This request has not been addressed. Question 15: I would like to begin by referring to my introductory remarks, in which I outlined a programme to strengthen the supervisory and coordination mechanisms in the field of electricity management. However, once again I warn of overly energy planning thoughts and I refer to the given constitutional law situation. In accordance with the federalist structure of the Austrian electricity supply, Article 12 of the Federal Constitutional Act only assigns competence to the federal government for the principle legislation, while the implementing legislation and enforcement constitute a matter for the countries. As a result of this constitutional situation of competence, I am not able to intervene in the field of power plant planning. Nevertheless, I would also like to say that coordination of power plant planning is primarily a task to be carried out by the undertakings concerned in accordance with the competition rules. Nor can it be the task of coordinated power plant planning to compensate for any misevaluations of individual undertakings in future energy sales at the expense of other companies. In any case, I reject the direct ad hoc intervention of central bodies. In addition, I believe that the Austrian electricity supply companies are performing their coordination function responsibly, which is particularly evident in the coordinated development programme of the combined society, the state companies and the national capital companies. A coordinated expansion plan does not mean that overcapacity or even low supply capacities can be avoided in all cases, especially since investment decisions or decisions on long-term supply contracts usually take place at a time when this cannot be accurately estimated and can always be clearly defined. On the question 16: The study Least-Cost-Planning mentioned in the question has not yet been adopted by the Federal Ministers for the Mission. The question of any implementation of the LCP instrument, an extended approach to Integrated Resource Planning and measures in this direction can, however, be discussed and discussed after completion of the studies. I believe that these instruments must be integrated into the electricity-efficient authorisation procedure of electricity generation plants and that it should be clarified at what level this should be done. On the question 17: I would like to point out that the new electricity price monitoring system of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs does not detach from the fixing of electricity prices, nor does it allow electricity suppliers to grant fixed monopoly rates. I have to vote against the idea that I would like to put down the "disgusting" electricity price scheme. Rather, I am simplifying the current electricity price system by means of a modern and flexible supervisory and information system and by removing, as I believe, a government-owned bureaucratic steering ideology. But if it is necessary and necessary, I will not be afraid to initiate and conclude current pricing procedures. As far as your view is concerned that the new system guarantees pensions, I would ask you to study the detailed documents I submitted on the occasion of the introduction of the new system to the public. It is clear that a comprehensive electricity supply in a given area contains those elements which are described in economic theory as natural monopoly. But it is here that the new system brings more transparency, which the old formalized system did not have. A pension could at most be referred to if the permissible price were to be based on the consumer price alone. But this is not the case, there is not only the stringent price cap according to Anglo-American model, but also a productivity reduction. Moreover, the level of both fees and the procedure at all have been thoroughly clarified and confirmed by renowned university experts. On the question 18: The collective contracts of the electricity supply companies workers/employees, labour regulations and various operating agreements with regard to allowances and special services fall within the collective autonomy of the respective electricity supply companies. Already in the past, at the initiative of the Minister of Economic Affairs, the electricity supply companies were stopped to take effective measures in particular towards reducing personnel costs – keyword: quantitative savings targets, pension reforms et cetera. These are now also recognised by the Court of Auditors, for example in the recent report on the results of the joint venture's audit. However, due to the strengthening of competition, particularly in the context of the proposed internal electricity market and further privatisation, it is clear that there is a significant rationalisation pressure which will have to and will lead to a further reduction in staff costs and also to more stringent personnel structures. On question 19: The fact is that the programme of support referred to in the 1993 energy report under measure M 52 is already being implemented. In particular, I would like to refer to wind power plants supported by the Eco Fund in 1955 with an electric power of more than 11 MW, for which more than 48 million schilling have already been promised. In addition, under the title "Wind Force for Austria" under the EU-Altener Funding Programme, the project, which was carried out by the Environmental Advisory Board of Austria, was funded by the public authorities. In addition, the energy section of my house has set up a working group which is deeply concerned with tariff measures to force renewable energy sources, in particular wind energy. Question 20: With regard to the general agreement agreed with the electricity industry in February 1994 on the basis of a National Council resolution on the promotion of electricity consumption from photovoltaic, wind and biomass plants, I think it is appropriate to re-evaluate the subsidies provided for in the Agreement and to allow them to be incorporated into the intended wind energy programme. On question 21: In the sense of federalism, the setting of minimum prices for electricity supplies which do not exceed the national borders is to be determined by the authority familiar with local events. A decision on this feed-in situation at national level therefore ensures the best possible reflection of regional cost structures. On the question 22: The question as to the extent to which the network provision fee referred to by you within the meaning of § 4 of the NÖ-EEC is appropriate does not fall within my jurisdiction, but is a matter assigned to the Lower Austrian Government for supply. On the question 23: At the present stage, I will inform you that the Association Society has developed the general project of a 380 kV line between the existing Kainachtal substation in the western Styrian municipality of Schwarzing and the planned substation of Südburgenland in the municipality of Rotenturm an der Pinka. In the course of this line a substation is also to be built in the East Styria. For this 380 kV management project, my department carries out the so-called pre-examination procedure according to the Starkstromwegengesetz. In the course of this process, an international opinion of university professors Edwin, Aachen and Glavitsch, Zurich, was prepared on the energy-efficient necessity of this management. I have sent this opinion to the interlocutory company for the preservation of its party hearing. All further procedural steps depend on the reaction of the joint society. The question which section of this management, which will cover its whole range from Kainachtal to Vienna, will first build the interlocutory company, must be answered in the company's own business decision-making area. Apart from this, the sub-section between South Burgenland and Vienna is to be referred to as a priority from an energy-economic point of view, because there are currently only very old and not particularly powerful 110 kV lines in the Burgenland. Through these weak 110 kV lines, the Burgenland, which has no significant own electricity generation and is almost all the electricity required from the interconnector, can no longer be supplied sufficiently and safely, I say. Question 24: It is not my job to comment on demented press reports. However, I do not want to inform you of my fundamental considerations on climate change and energy policy. The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a task that goes beyond the energy sector without prejudice to a high-energy component. At the federal level, it falls within the competence of the Federal Minister for the Environment, who has drawn up the Austrian Climate Change Report in accordance with a resolution of the House. There are two key measures in the energy sector: the saving of energy and the replacement of fossil energy sources by renewables. This is in the general direction of Austrian energy policy, whose objective, in addition to the security and cost-effectiveness of supply, is environmental and social compatibility as well as the use of domestic resources. Accordingly, the 97 measures of the 1993 energy concept comprise the areas mentioned above. These measures, which are equally important to the environment and energy policy, also include the expansion of hydropower. Austria is seeking an exemplary role in the Community of industrialised countries, but must also accept the limits of action within the international framework. As an example, I would like to mention the increased tank tourism, which, after increasing the tax on mineral oil, has dampened both the environmental and financial effects. However, I believe that further action in the field of energy taxation, which the new Federal Government is planning, will also mean further steps in the right direction. I agree with you on the need to force renewable energy. However, it appears that its concern is to provide, in addition to certain renewable primary energy forms, binding on the energy industry. It seems to me that the choice between renewable primary energy forms is a decision which, on the one hand, should largely be assigned to the entrepreneurial discretion of the supply companies, on the other hand, in the sense of cooperative federalism, to the regulatory area of the countries. Question 25: This too seems to me to be important: the OECD study, quoted by Mr Anschober. I would warn against shortening energy policy discussions on the consideration of less or even a single parameter. As a significant example, I would like to point out that, in particular, the use of combined heat and power in Denmark since the end of the 1970s has been based on a very high use of coal, which has resulted in very high CO2 emissions. In the environmentally significant measure of CO2 emissions per capita and per year, Denmark is 11,4 tonnes much worse than Austria, with 7,1 tonnes of each comparison in the group of industrialised countries. As a major producer of gas, Denmark currently has other possibilities to go in these CO2-favourable but, of course, non-CO2-neutral energy sources than Austria, for example, is undisputed, but also shows a bit of questionability of the comparison. However, if you have already focused on primary energy consumption, I would like to point out that in the period 1980 to 1994 energy consumption in Denmark increased by 2.2%, in Austria by 8.6%. Taking into account the overall economic development, relative energy consumption – energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product – which, I believe, gives the better picture – is the following decline: Denmark minus 22.9 percent, Austria minus 19.1 percent. The difference in improving energy efficiency is therefore by no means as high as you have described it here. In the EU area, Austria is behind Luxembourg, Ireland and Denmark in fourth position. Considering a longer period since the first oil price shock in 1973, according to current data from the international energy agency, there is even a parallel development of both countries. Both Denmark and Austria needed around 0.15 oil units of total energy per 1000 units of gross domestic product in 1994. Between 1973 and 1994, both countries achieved a fall in relative energy consumption by around 29 percent. In the case of per capita consumption, Austria is even significantly better off with 3.3 tonnes of oil units than Denmark with 4,02 tonnes of oil units. The slightly better data from Denmark for the period 1980 to 1994 is mainly due to the low share of industry in energy consumption – Denmark has 20 percent, Austria has 30 percent – as well as the above mentioned expansion of district heating supply mainly on a coal-based basis. I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12629	We are now going into the debate. Under the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 15 minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Petrovic as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12659	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even if individual members of the ÖVP, even the clubman, consider the debate to be indispensable, I think it is important for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] This is all the more sad, Mrs Fekter, because this shows your environmental and energy policy ignorance. This is something that really is of economic harm to Austria. Energy policy should not matter to you – even if you don't care about the environmental aspects and the threatening escalation in Lambbach – which Austria controls for tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly true that Austria in principle has very favourable conditions for producing very ecological energy. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: With the hydropower!]] In part also because of the hydropower, certainly! Only: There must be a balance between hydropower, further expansion, and possible further expansion of hydropower and environmental concerns in all, very small areas. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, these are also economic concerns. Because especially when it comes to protecting an ecological or perhaps the most ecologically important outdoor area in Upper Austria, the interests that are very probably also of economic importance are, for example, in the area of tourism and leisure activities. But there is a process of tightness and well-being, which also proves your call for call, which you are not at all prepared to take seriously into account this weighing of goods and to act accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is just a corn field!]] The Federal Minister has brought many details and answered them very in detail. But one came out of his reply summa summarum: that he does not actually strive to make real energy policy in Austria. And he's denunciating that. Mrs Fekter! He's denunciating this right away. Energy policy, a truly efficient energy policy that does not intervene in individual projects, denotifies it as a dirigism, as a planning economy. And what he is doing in his reply is far closer to dirigistic mechanisms and interventions in market processes in many points. I listened very closely to him: In the first place, he has covered a little, but he has said that there are gross discords. [[Abg. Wabl: Frictions!]] He was talking about certain fractions. In fact – let me make this so salopp – we all know that it flies the claws between the union and the national societies. He speaks a little more moderate of "confident fractions". The bill for these certain fractions is paid by Austrian electricity consumers. Because if the kilowatt hour of Lambach will cost about 75 to 80 sizes, but we export electricity by 20 or 25 sizes, I ask you: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 65 grand!]] Who pays the difference, if not the Austrian population? And that is something that is certainly unbearable in the long run. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! They spoke of historically grown structures. Yes, of course, that's right! It was necessary in post-war times to build up the energy economy. It was certainly also necessary to give the countries competence. But today this is certainly to be rethinked. If you are simply not prepared to make a sensible energy policy, a central energy policy in some way, then it is not true that there is really more free competition, but there are country companies that provide the final consumers and achieve very good revenues and can partly also shape the feed-in tariffs in such a way that they simply push certain renewable energies out of competition. This is not free competition, but it is white dirigism that you deliberately tolerate by your inactivity and by your apparent energy policy abstinence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Wabl: No interlocutory speeches!]] On the other hand, there is the composite company, which produces very, very cheap electricity, even because it is lucky to operate the Danube power plants. However, this interconnected society has a major problem: It does not come to the final customers. That is why you have state companies, which are very likely to have a tax monopoly and partly also a monopoly in the tariff system for feed-in, and you have a composite company that produces very cheap electricity, but does not have to get to the consumers and throw this electricity abroad. And this is a situation which is certainly unbearable by the economy and which leads to further ecological destruction being possible. For if every country company develops this cantonist and says that we want to be independent, not from abroad, as you have said, Mr Federal Minister, but regardless of its own interlocutory society, from Austrian society, then it is precisely this that one really has to come out to devils also destroy the last outdoor landscapes, the last free river routes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is the power plant not going to a cornfield?]] On the instruments you have proposed: If you are talking about the approval of the plant, if you are also talking about the need to carry out the usual electricity pricing process – I have enough of myself participated in such procedures and I know how business and economic activity is inconsistency – then, Minister of State, I ask you: What is that, if not dirigism and ultimately a Central planning element? You say there's a study about the Least Cost Planning! They know exactly what is inside, namely that it would be much easier and much cheaper, that is, much more market economy, even in the Causa Lambach the same amount of electricity through thermal insulation measures to save by other measures than building this power plant by 600 million schilling. You know that's what's inside. And then tell all the serious things here, the study is not adopted. What kind of understanding of science policy or dealing with sound statements is that? Is it really true that we have to adopt the statements of experts from the energy sector with the authority of the Minister? That's, I think, white dirigism, and I don't want that. I want free science and studies, which are then taken note of by politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And even in the question of the 2nd. Nationalization law seems to you to follow an interpretation which is certainly a possible form of interpretation: to switch to the special societies and to say otherwise we cannot. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is necessary by law!]] No, no, it's not. It is a legal possibility. But this Federal Minister obviously wants to have the lowest possible competence. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: It's not ideal!]] This Federal Minister obviously does not want to intervene in the sense of a Least Cost Planning. I also do not think that it is the ideal procedure to wait for any society to present a project, perhaps even to complete relatively expensive planning work, and then to say that does not fit me, now I explain this to the big project and perhaps delete it. But that would require the serious will to a genuine energy policy. The content is not about non-intrusion into individual projects, it does not do individual plant permits outside the normal construction and other procedures, nor does it concern all possible official procedures, let alone the state-of-the-art application of studies, since it is first and foremost about energy policy principles, such as the federal anchoring of the Least-Cost-Planning principle or the anchoring of the principle that the entire power plant park is to be used optimally, that the cheap interconnector flow is to be used, even if this means relatively lower rates for the rulings in the national societies. This also means that a total of the best mix of the different types of production is to be set aside. If you say that you are not interfering in the decision which types of renewable energy are being forced by the individual societies, then I must say: This also testifies to your lack of willingness to have a real energy policy. Because it is not a matter of choosing any forms of renewable energy, but rather of responding to the Austrian situation. And this is characterized by an enormous oversupply in summer and a just enough and ecologically safe improvement in winter. That is why, in the context of an ecological and also economically sound energy programme, the Minister for Economic Affairs should very well give an opinion on the type of renewable energy to be developed. And that can only be a kind of energy that, especially in winter and not in summer, provides high performance when we have to swim in the current and throw it away. It is therefore necessary to think of wind power in particular and to invest relatively more in its use. It was called the 48 million scale that were invested in the expansion of the use of wind power. In view of this, I say: Lambach alone, which is not classified by the Federal Minister as a major project, but as a medium-sized project, costs 600 million. In fact, it will cost much more if it is built. It can therefore be found that there is an extreme imbalance in the inputs into the various energy types. For a medium power plant you are willing to spend more than ten times as much than for the promotion of meaningful winter energies as the wind power. Federal Minister! That's exactly the situation we're in. That is why I am now bringing forward two motions for resolutions and hope that there will be a willingness to think about them in order to avoid the conflict around Lambbach. I hope that, in particular, the Socialists will support the attitude of their Upper Austrian colleagues, because I believe that these applications are really appropriate to bring about a better energy policy for Austria. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] All in all, it is sad if the National Council has to ask the Federal Minister to exercise competence. I would like a Minister of Economic Affairs to exercise these competences actively, in a formative manner and in an ecological way. It would be best, however, that this competence would not be at all in the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the future, because in the past it was badly removed, and it appears that it seems to have been poorly removed there even now. This competence actually belongs to the environment as a central competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12862	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Petrovic are sufficiently supported. They will be involved in the negotiations. The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e12887	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who are like most of you far away from Lambach will surely have taken hold of the handkerchief's presentation of Mr. Anschober's handkerchief because he was so taken from the account of the history of the 50 days – as Anschober put it – of peaceful resistance in Lambach. After his depiction, the conservationists are those who have only the nice, beautiful and irreproachable in mind. – A narrator is usually also a fairy taler, and so it was with his speech, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are – and that is undisputed – among these demonstrators or conservationists quite a few who are there out of conviction. There is nothing against these. But these are very, very few. On the other hand, there are many who are being taken from Vienna and other parts of our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We don't need them there!]] And we don't need them there. It was there to find the last protective area of the Traun. – Ladies and gentlemen! Either the glasses from the top are so bad, then he should go to the optician, or he has actually not been on the spot. I myself am from the neighboring community, ladies and gentlemen, I am from the neighboring community! [[Abg. Wabl: Don't look like that!]] Whoever speaks in this context of a nature reserve and above all of an au, understands nothing, knows nothing or was never there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The nature reserve Fischlhammer Au belongs by chance to the territory of my community, but it is located a few kilometers downstream. And this au lives only from the backstower of the power plant Wels, otherwise this au would have died long ago, because an au needs either flood possibilities or a correspondingly high groundwater level. You should know this for a long time now, Mr Wabl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't care!]] If you're talking about "so peaceful demonstrators," the tears will come to me. The demonstrators empower themselves to foreign land of small farmers, build huts, strike nails in trees, disturb access, disturb access. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is possession disorder!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They threaten the landowner Hartner – I call him literally – with the "Hoamdrahn!" [[Abg. Wabl: What is that?]] That's supposed to be peaceful demonstrators? Ladies and gentlemen! By chance, in Lambach at those shops whose owners are clearly committed to the expansion of the power plant, the door locks are glued with super glues, quite by chance! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with these peaceful demonstrators, you can read: "Dr. Wailand's career pool: Global 2000 is looking for support for the action of the Lambach power plant to help young, committed, communicative employees who want to help the Austrian environment through information and advertising activities, at least 18-30 years old. We offer incomes and flexible working hours in good working conditions." And the same thing I read in the standard. Looking again. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the peaceful conservationists, the environmentalists, the demonstrators! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wabl! I am the only Member who has been involved in all the water law, forestry, nature conservation, energy law and other reviews and negotiations of this power plant. For both planned power plants, namely the power plant Saag and the power plant Lambach, were negotiated in one. And the power plant saw with the planned backstower, which is not coming now because the OKA has declared that it abandons, would have found itself in my congregation, but not in your field of vision, which obviously has become so narrow and so narrow! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is fantastic, with what sad pictures are announced as they are on the construction site: "After excavating in the Traunfluss, Parliament will now decide." – One thing I would be interested in: How can this be technically possible if a excavator who drives down the river in the tears – as one can read in this way – drives a water wall in front of him? I would like to see this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This is not even happening in your stories, Mr. Anschober. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I understand: Media now have the tendency to bring beautiful pictures to paper. To do this, one must understand. But that you give in to it and go with it, that is something that is incomprehensible! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever speaks of an au in this regard speaks against better knowledge. There's no Au here, there's no Au affected. It's a corn field. If you do not realize that it is where the power plant building is to be built, that is the harvested corn stems that can be found on the field that was harvested last year, then you must indeed doubt your knowledge of nature conservation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I understand that you are in trouble. But I'll tell you one thing: Your operational hustle and bustle cannot compensate for your political downtime either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then visit: Wabl, Petrovic, Anschober and so on. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Loud referent of unemployed income!]] Wabl is visiting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] That is indeed welcome and commendable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further call of the Abg. Wabl.]] He's coming by train. That's also commendable. But the way back to the station was too far. Then he asks the Gendarmerie to bring him back. Ladies and gentlemen! I think of this: Everyone wants to go back to nature, but nobody wants to walk. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This planned power plant has been negotiated, replanted for more than ten years, and has really been tried to make the best possible from an ecological point of view. More than 2,000 parties were invited to the negotiations, and there are two remaining objections to the Administrative Court, because two people – who live more than a kilometer away – are afraid that their drinking water could be at risk, although the OKA explicitly and in writing has committed itself to ensuring the provision of drinking water in the case of the cases. I would like to see this small amount of opposition at the Freudnau power plant, ladies and gentlemen, which was once announced that it was not opposed and that it was therefore accepted. I would like to see such an acceptance as in the present case, in the case of the two parties concerned by 2 000, I would like to make two comments on all the projects in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then from here it is announced that the compound could supply the electricity, he had surplus enough. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: He didn't!]] – I read here: "Power supplies from Hungary are developing for the association with the Fiasco." [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Right!]] - Ah, look here! The association has undertaken to take over electricity from the Nagymaros power plant at the price of 70 sizes per kilowatt. Therefore, it is obvious that the power plant Lambach is not to be built, that power plant, which today would deliver electricity at the price of 77 sizes per kilowatt in the event of a falling trend, because the interest-rate burden is lost. Lambach is objectively one of the cheapest power plants of the last ten years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then there are the opinions of the different parties. I've already spoken to the Greens. The Freedom Party, I understand, is also against this hydropower plant. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote the position paper "Energy 90" on the Freedom Party's energy policy: "As before, flowing water is the cleanest source of energy." [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Go!]] " Hydropower remains indispensable. The Freedom Party is committed to further extensive expansion of hydropower, taking careful account of the landscape and ecosystem." That's praiseworthy! "Small and medium-sized hydropower plants should be preferred. Power plants are more important than large storage plants." – Praiseworthy, praiseworthy! I quote: "Urban constructions should in principle be constructed as multi-purpose buildings: Flood protection, fisheries, leisure facilities and others.' Praiseworthy! All of this is true of Lambach! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a description for Lambach!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the best description of the Lambach project! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ-Oberösterreich is in a terrible zwispalt. I read here that Mr Koppler – gratefully – is in favour of this, and Mr Freyschlager from Upper Austria and the chairman of the Wipplinger trade union are also in favour of it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very good!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are still many to be mentioned here. The old mayor of Stadl Paura and the SPÖ Group of Lambach are for this and so on. This was, by the way, still negotiated under a SPÖ mayor. Now there is an ÖVP mayor in Lambach. Ladies and gentlemen! All the mentioned ones are for this. But the imported demonstrators are against it. Ladies and gentlemen! Then there is the accusation to Land Captain Pühringer that he would have issued a water law decision to make him positive, that he would have drawn the nature protection notice to make him so to speak positive. I'm clear: The Department of the Office of the State Government wanted to adopt a positive water law decision. It was then forbidden by the competent State Councillor Achatz. - Ah, look here! So this is the non-influence of the political side, which is always preached otherwise! – The first authority of the Nature Conservation Department, the Wels-Land County Head Team, has issued a positive nature conservation notice. This is opposed by the Supreme Authority. That's remarkable. By chance, the High Authority is the competent colleague Pramer – a very honorable person, I would like to hold on to that – who does not find herself with stubble shoes and fur coat in the outdoor area she would like to look for, because it cannot be found at all, ladies and gentlemen! By chance, the responsible speaker of the First Authority, the Nature Conservation Department at the Wels-Land County Head Team, is also a SPÖ official who gives a positive opinion. But because the political leaders do not like it above, a negative decision has to be made. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are events to be illuminated! I am glad that Mr Pühringer has made sure that this question is dealt with objectively, wisely and actually in the sense of the authorities, the arrants and the ecology, and that this power plant is built. [[Abg. Wabl: Is Pühringer the owner of the OKA?]] Mr Wabl! Let us be glad that there are still people who are in favour of a rule of law being a rule of law, and who do not question such a project because of 20 demonstrators, most of whom will come from Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13168	Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13190	Mr President. Federal Minister! One thing I am very concerned about in this debate since it was held: That those representing the construction of Kraftwerks Lambach are not particularly convincing in their arguments that they argue very loud for this. This is a tone situation that seems to be transferred from the Landtag in Upper Austria right here to the Parliament. My previous speaker, Mr Auer, whom I very much appreciate – we have discussed the power plant question of the more often – has just fallen into the tone of his colleagues in the Upper Austrian Landtag. Mr Auer! Do you wonder that those who fear their wells and water supply give the OKA’s promises so little faith? As a affected Welser, I still remember today's promise... Colleagues, I have listened to you. [[Calls and calls to SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Maybe you can listen a little bit too! We don't necessarily have to be on the market for the year. Perhaps in my remarks there is some argument, which is quite interesting for your considerations too! The OKA has promised the Welsers during the traffic jam in Wels Wassergüte 2. She's got nothing to do with it. The only thing it has done was to ensure that the overlying companies had to deal with their waste water levels with a million costs imposed by the country: This is a situation which will probably also have an impact on one farm or another with very high costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I am going to remind Mrs Fekter that if the farms come to us and complain about the high conditions because they may even have to lock up. If Mrs Petrovic fears, as a preliminary speaker, the Kantönli spirit or a stronger development of the Kantönli spirit in the energy industry in Austria, I can tell her that she has overlooked the signs of time. She doesn't need to fear such a thing. The Kantönli spirit is already in full bloom in the energy industry in Austria. And I would like to give you an example of why, among other things, I am so suspicious of this whole discussion, as it is being carried out here. I visited the Dürn Rohr power plant last May. May is a time when the Danube carries a lot of water. The blocks of the EVN, the energy supply of Lower Austria, ran to full operation. On the other hand, revision work was carried out on the power plant blocks of the compound. I then asked a little question as to how many revision hours are spent on the composite blocks and how many operating hours the EVN blocks have, and I learned that there is an exact opposite ratio: What one revisions all year round, the other ones in full operation, and that at a time when the Danube is fully water-conducting, the water can flow down the Danube and not be used, because the EVN does not want to draw the electricity from the compound, but at the same time generates electricity in a caloric power plant. – Ladies and gentlemen! If this is to be economically sensible, please, you have to look for other arguments. You can't convince me with this! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, neither the Federal Government nor the National Council are responsible for the specific project in Lambbach. In the last few weeks, how much or how little competence has been expressed on this issue has been dramatically and very clear to us: It has required the intervention of three very prominent political personalities. Our National Council President Heinz Fischer, Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky and Federal President Dr. Klestil intervened only so that a conversation between the head of state, the operator representative of the OKA, the clearly declared opponents and those who only support a thoughtful break would occur. The latter do not even make a final statement against the construction of this power plant. They only act for a thoughtful break. Three interventions were needed to create a conversation, and the result is that you took the media. It was basically zero. There were some meaningless "consolations", but it is built completely and without a break. Ladies and gentlemen – also from the ÖVP! If you look at the demands of the Upper Austrian countryside, which were decided by a majority twice in a row, at a rather large time, then you will find that these are quite reasonable in view of the energy situation in Austria. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Jobs seem to be no concern at all!]] Mr President, I am still coming to the jobs. There is a lot to be said about this in particular. But to make you aware of the demands, I would like to inform them briefly. The aim was to have a halting stop to clarify the open issues of carrying out an environmental impact assessment, the controversial admissibility of the construction under the EU Nature Conservation Directives and the open administrative court knowledge of water law. The demands addressed to the head of state in this context were to call on the OKA to stop the construction immediately and to initiate a delay in the further preparatory work for the Lambach power plant until the open questions have been finally resolved. At the same time, a work programme for the construction industry should be decided and implemented in such a way that already projected construction projects of the country and the ODA are immediately preferred and implemented to the extent of the investments for Lambbach. In addition, it was called upon to inform the OCA that, in the area of its existing facilities, it will immediately implement a comprehensive rehabilitation and optimization programme, which will have to include both the replacement of old technical plants with new and structural renovation measures. The first decision was taken at a time when this construction stop would have been justified without economic damage to the OKA. However, this has not been approached, but the political line to which one has once agreed has simply continued. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, we Social Democrats continue to use hydropower because we believe that it is still one of the most environmentally friendly energy sources, but only one and not the only one and not at all. I would therefore like to take the following into account: In Upper Austria, 90 percent of the hydropower in question is already used. In Austria we are at the forefront of this. In our opinion, the remaining ten percent should only be used if this is indispensable in terms of energy efficiency. Each power plant project must therefore be thoroughly examined from an Austrian-wide energy-efficient point of view for its efficiency and environmental compatibility. This test did not withstand the power plant Lambach. After the consideration of interests laid down in the Upper Austrian Nature Conservation Act – in Upper Austria a balance of interests is provided by law – the nature conservation interest was clearly in front of the public interest. This is no longer surprising in view of the energy economic situation, as it is at present. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why is Koppler acting for it?]] Mr President, I should like to thank Let's have a bit of time! All questions will be answered as far as possible. In addition, a few speakers come to me. The said result, however, has moved Landeshuptmann Pühringer, the responsible speaker – she has already been quoted today: Ms. Pramer – to withdraw the competence and deal with the whole state government. Colleagues Auer has makated about the conduct of the State Council of Achatz in the water law question. On the other hand, a speaker was immediately deprived of competence and transferred to the collegial body. And it was obvious that the EIA majority will be given a positive decision. Today it has been said a few times that it has been thought for ten years. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, ten years have been fought! It has been replanted for ten years until a powerful power plant has become the largest rinsing of Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – This statement does not come from me, but I have quoted a recognized specialist from the energy industry. In the meantime, this is Dr. Fremuth. Prof. Dr. Walter Fremuth made this statement. I do not think he has any difficulties in dealing with this even today on the basis of energy economic considerations. This power plant, Lambach, currently does not make sense in terms of energy efficiency. This has already been mentioned by Mr Anschober. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But that's not true!]] Mrs Fekter! Look This is really true, not only from the perspective of the gravel, not only from the sandy point of view, but perhaps from an energy-efficient point of view. Then you will insist that the power plant produces electricity exactly when we have enough electricity anyway, and that we do not have the power from the power plant exactly when we unfortunately need to import God – and in the "Bundeslast Distributor" that is to read in the statistics at any time – in order to have relatively expensive money. It is obvious that the OKA needs a caloric twin for its power plant in Lambbach. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true! The project with the caloric power plant is of the past!]] When you look at the Timelkam extension plan: The Timelkam power plant was to be converted to gas in 1999. This should achieve a power of 70 megawatts. That's to be read, please, that's not my invention! The power plant could not fulfil the concept without caloric twins at all. The same OKA, ladies and gentlemen, is trying to make clear to us with great advertising effort that the Lambach power plant is superfluous of the generation of electricity from fossil energy sources. This would also be possible without Lambach. They only need to draw the electricity from the compound, and we do not need to use fossil energy sources. [[Call at the ÖVP:The current comes from the socket!]] Yes, yes! We know all of that. We know the wisdom. But we also know how it gets in the socket. [[Call the Greens:There are also solar sockets!]] We were also concerned about this. I really didn't do that. This is not my way of dealing with these problems as superficially as you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to explain this to you, but please look at the import records that can be read by the association at any time, where we really buy electricity for payment. This electricity is only from Poland – from Poland! – and there is no nuclear power station there, there is only caloric power plants, due to long-term contracts that were concluded many, many years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Especially clean! With lignite!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There would be a number of arguments to be put forward in this context, including the workplace policy argument. If one had invested in adaptations, we would have at least as many employees as here in this power plant. Finally, I must say, unfortunately, that my group, because we in Parliament have no competence for this specific project, will not agree with the motions for resolutions tabled by the Greens. We believe that political incompetence should not also be underlined by toothless decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13364	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13386	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my words, I would like to say in principle – as this was also mentioned by Mr Auer – about the free movement of energy policy. It is right – and it is to be read – that we are not against hydropower. Nevertheless, this should not prevent us from appreciating a senseless, an ecologically and economically absurd project as such and refusing our consent to this project. It is very simple, Minister of State Ditz, if you answer the words of one of my previous speakers by saying that energy policy is more than prevention policy. I believe that the citizen has the right to show nonsense. This happened here in Lambach and continues to happen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They talked about the competitiveness of the suppliers. That's right, too. And now, obviously, it is the citizens who have to prevent the energy supply company OKA from implementing an economically absurd projecting of power plants into reality, which is not about the risk of the OKA, but is ultimately being taken into the pocket of the citizen and the electricity customer in order to finance this project and the expensive electricity from the planned power plant Lambach; Energy costs, which only the consumer has to bear, but which must also be given a say in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! I also know that a landscape can be beautifully designed, just as it happened here on this photo assembly: beautiful green around the power plant. Perhaps in some time then the angler or the angler group will be installed by photo-mounting to show what good it is for the environment. I think that's a little too simple. But let me come to some facts. According to OKA brochure, the planned power plant with a power of 14 megawatts has an output of 71 million kilowatt hours, which is equivalent to an annual requirement of 17 000 households. Each of us knows that, of course, it is not possible to actually provide 17 000 households for the year with this power plant. It has also been mentioned by my previous speaker that, of course, a twin is necessary to cover the peaks of electricity or, at that time, the need in which the hydropower is not sufficiently available. But if it is said here that 17 000 households can be supplied with the electricity from the hydroelectric power from Lambbach, you also allow me to say that we can provide the proud number of some 570 000 households with that export surplus that we produce in Austria and which we have to spend on cheap money abroad. 570 000 households, that is the amount of energy we produce as surplus in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: In summer!]] Of course in summer. Mr President, I should like to thank We continue to increase this surplus through this power plant Lambach. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Read the energy study! We need a power plant in 2005! – This is a study by the Economic Research Institute! You should look at this once!]] No, you should focus above all on what was ultimately the result of the studies of the association, which was the result of the OECD's studies, which also dealt with it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If the union in Hungary is not economically buying, this is not the problem of the OKA!]] No, it's not supposed to be. But even in relation to this price, to which the association buys in Hungary, Mrs Fekter, the electricity that will be produced from the Lambach power plant, as it is built, is more expensive than the foreign reference current. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 70 grand costs the kilowatt hour!]] You know, it's not particularly credible when it's claimed in the "Consistency" shipment, we need to build the power plant to reduce the nuclear current that we obtain from abroad in order to reduce the proportion of the OCA from the compound from 50 percent to 30 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a legitimate right!]] A legitimate right! It is only, Mrs Fekter, that you will have to explain to me why, effectively since 1994, a contract between OKA and commitment has been established. With this agreement, the OKA undertakes to take 50 percent away from the union, Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was in 1994!]] Since 1994, while earlier the relationship from the compound is about 30 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13503	Excuse me, Mr Hofmann. You are, as it were, exclusively speaking, you do not have to share your speaking time with other Members.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13518	I would like to share the speaking time with Mrs Fekter. Of course, she will also know her views – at least I suppose she will – but I would like to say to you: It does not reduce nuclear power, and it is not credible if the OKA claims it and at the same time wants to sell 30 percent of its shares in the Bayern plants. That's what you're talking about, and you know that. I believe that you also know that the Bayern plants are a nuclear power producer par excellence, so the credibility of this is also to be questioned. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's why we want the hydropower!]] In addition, I should like to point out that power plant construction at lower electricity consumption, as it has been in the ODA for years, is not economic. For years the demand for electricity in Upper Austria has been declining by 2.7 percent in 1992, 1.2% in 1993 and less in 1994, though. The cause for this is not the abandonment of aluminium production in Ranshofen – that is known – because it is also directly related to the combination at the time, so it has no effect on electricity consumption in Upper Austria, which is covered by the OKA. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The electricity consumption in Upper Austria is rising!]] Mrs Colleague, it will be a little too close to speaking time if you always use it, but you can talk about it afterwards. The fact is that, according to the ODA's Annual Report, electricity consumption has declined since 1992 and without Ranshofen. There are certainly several reasons for this. One of the reasons is the benefit of savings potentials, and another reason is that some of the industrial enterprises have now passed over to own electricity supply. This is why, of course, the OKA's revenue for the supply will also be reduced. We have already heard that in Upper Austria already 92 percent of the expandable rivers have been used for the use of hydropower. That means, for example, it remains for the Traun still a small rest, a small flow distance of 22.5 kilometers – just where this power plant is now to be created. Mr Bartenstein, Minister for the Environment, spoke of the need for environmental supervision in connection with the problems arising from the start of the construction of the Lambach power plant. Mr Bartenstein! They were not particularly ready to talk after the construction was started. They then spoke out briefly and asked for a routing stop, which, after it had already been rode – but obviously not everything – was still taken up again. Perhaps you could say how you imagine this ecological construction supervision. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: There are! That's Dr. Wittmann!]] – Dr. Wittmann makes the ecological construction supervision. It does not matter what the Upper Austrian environmental lawyer has known or noted. It has also been mentioned today: Right must remain right. After you have defended what is happening here and you have to remain right because there are supposed to be all the valid decisions, I would like to tell you that the competence for water law, when it appeared to be in the concept and a negative decision, was drawn by Mr Landeshuptmann Pühringer. And it has already been said: With Mrs Pramer, exactly the same thing happened with the Nature Conservation Notice. It was also the head of state, who suddenly took the competence of himself, and – you imagine – it did not matter at all how the Upper Austrian Landtag voted on it. The Upper Austrian Parliament has for the time being refused to implement the project; however, due to the majority of the state government, it was then possible for Mr Pühringer to carry out this project in the form it now represents. And it does not seem to you, Mrs Fekter, to me that ÖVP mayors, who are in the upper category of the Traun, have also raised their concerns, for example those from Vöcklabruck, for example those from Regau who have spoken about it – in addition to some SPÖ mayors who have notified their concerns – whether the companies located in the upper league area have to expect them to comply with appropriate environmental requirements. [[Abg. Auer: Here is the knowledge! No one was invited! If someone is 30 kilometers away from the construction site, he can't just stop everything!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP, in particular the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You have a microphone! Screamed them!]] Mr Auer, you yourself know, for example, what environmental requirements Lenzing AG has received in recent years. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Decides are simply overturned, and it will be prevented!]] No, I just wanted to say it's your ÖVP mayors who voted against it. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Of course! But you just go over it, because right must remain right. Of course! Decides will be overturned, and it will simply "wrong" what is coming. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the procedure! That is the concept of democracy of the Austrian People's Party, which is the concept of democracy of the head of state of Upper Austria. – He will see if he can continue this way. My colleague, Mr Aumayr, will, in my opinion, put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject, and I can tell you that you and the people have not done a good job by moving through this project in the way you do in Upper Austria with your party partners. This will remain the case in the future, at least in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13645	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13667	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The volume of the debate, in particular the further discussion between Mr Auer and Mr Hofmann, is likely to suggest that it is really important today. If you, honourable Member Hofmann, are making yourself there today and as an introduction say, the narrators are fairytale narrators, then I wonder why you are going to start and then tell... [[Call to the liberals: That was not the Hofmann, that was the Auer!]] Excuse me! Deputies Auer! Sorry! This was just a confusion of the name in the anger that Mr Auer is making himself there and his speech begins with that he says that the narrators are at the same time also fairytale narrators, and then stories open up how poor businessmen in Lambach get their locks dirty with supersticks. I tell you, Mr Auer, it is not right if this has really happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter! Listen to me! But what does this have to do with the basic problem in this case? The basic problem is whether it makes sense in Upper Austria to invest more than 90 per cent in this area of hydropower, for example wind power, which is already as competitive as hydropower in this area, and which has a zero per cent expansion rate. I wonder why Mr Auer – not Mr Hofmann – is facing us with the fact that this is only a matter of a few wooden stems, about a few corn stables that stand around somewhere and which are, interestingly, cut in Upper Austria with the motor saw. Probably the farmers are standing there and yelling: Attention, wood, when they fall down. I'm telling you, this is not the case in the South Styria. I therefore assume that this is also just a story that you are telling. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Auer! It's also an interesting one. It is interesting to note that as a quality feature, you live near Lambach. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Have you been there?]] Now let me talk! Don't always bend in between! Don't always talk about it, Madam Member. That's from the old clothes collection. It is simply incomprehensible that you are producing yourself here and making use of yourself to be particularly competent, because you live in this area, but for all the other Members who have been on the scene to deal with this problem, only ridicule and humor are left. I'm telling you why you're doing this: Because in this very case you have long gone out of the arguments. You know, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka, I refer this to you and also to you, Mrs Fekter. I am surprised that you spoke here at the beginning of the day, saying that this urgent request is from the outset a flop, a complete nonsense, but it seems that it is just a matter of insanity! If one makes sense, as you always call for, to highlight the economic approach, Mrs Fekter, then you will also admit to me that it is useful to look beyond the borders and once again to recognize that the Austrian structure in the energy supply is a genuinely elusive one compared to the competitors we face in the European market. Here, of course, something will have to change, and that will have to be discussed in this House. Lambach is not going to be much further, because Lambach is strengthening exactly the problem that Austrian electricity supply already has very strong. We have a very high seasonal problem in this area, and we will not get under control if we continue to reinforce this seasonal problem with such hydroelectric power plants. Mr Fekter and Mr Kukacka. It is no longer the problem of producing as much as possible, but it is only useful to deal with what we have in existing energy as efficiently as possible. If the emphasis is on ensuring as much energy as possible and as many jobs as possible by means of investment, then I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, why, for more than a year, for example from the thermal insulation industry, this study has been neglected and not even debated, which has long been showing that the same resources invested in Lambbach could be used to secure twice as many workers at the same time as Lambbach is currently the case. [[the speaker shows this brochure]] And this is not even taken into account, ladies and gentlemen, what we would save on energy and where this could be used elsewhere. So: If there really is an economic view in the foreground, then this should have been a topic from your side for a long time. And that's what I'm saying, because the Federal Minister Bartenstein is sitting here: That would have been something that would have been in his position, in his responsibility, to bring him here in the house. We do not have to wait again in plenary with such stories as Mr Auer, not Mr Hofmann, has done, but it would be time to talk about the fact that, in energy policy, we should continue a path that has been successful, but that is just starting to turn into the other direction. That would be what we really want from the Liberal Forum. If Mr Ditz says that the energy saving potential is activated and that he is also in favour of doing so, I wonder why he has never resorted to this study until now, although it has been presented, although it has really been wanted by the thermal insulation industry and has also been applied to it. She just wasn't taken note of! Why? – Because in energy policy – and this has also proved the discussion that has been held here today – lobbyism is facing a meaningful national economic account. If Mr Ditz says he is for renewable energy sources, he wants renewable energy sources to prevail: Why did he not take advantage of his opportunities for the black countries, as the Black Minister for Economic Affairs, to better enforce renewable energy sources, for example with the feed-in schemes we are waiting for all the time? – [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: What does this have to do with "black"?]] It is not at all true, ladies and gentlemen, that federalism in this area reflects the cost structure. The only thing that is true in this context is that there is an attempt to prevent competition here from those energy supply companies that have long since withdrawn from this competition. We must not make ourselves here and pretend to have competitive conditions in the energy market in Austria. You know exactly that is not the case. Therefore, we must also take precautions in the political field that, if other energy supply mechanisms are already recognized, they also have a point of view from the political and legal point of view. This is the task of a meaningful and forward-looking energy policy. Mr. Federal Minister Ditz! This has nothing to do with a central planning idea. The renewable energy sources are decentralized production. This is much better than the highly centralized one that we have at present or which we are going through with nuclear power plants or even with nuclear fusion – in this area, a lot of research is currently being done in the European Union. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen: Competition will still not be desired by those energy suppliers we currently have in Austria and who have completely shared this area with each other in order to avoid competition. I'll only send you a letter from 19. February 1996 before, which probably went to you as well. He went to the parliamentary club of the Liberals. He's from the Styrian STEWEAG. That's what the STEWEAG says: As far as the current price situation is concerned, we already have great problems with STEWEAG, industrial own-production facilities through cheap electricity supply from the grid. That is to say, STEWEAG writes to us in Parliament, please make a policy that we can continue to control this market and are not forced to allow self-sufficiency plants in industry to allow us to cope with the energy prices that do not take into account the environmental loads of maintaining the self-production power plants in industry. It is always argued, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, feed-ins, be it from industry, which is easier because they are larger quantities, or from individual smaller feeders, would bring particular problems on the net. I am surprised that, for example, in the district heating network in Vienna, there is no problem at all that this network is fed by all possible sites. And if this is possible for district heating, I do not agree that the specialists and particularly well-trained persons in the field of electricity industry would technically not be able to solve this problem. They do not want it because it means competition and because they do not want this competition, but want to see the market divided among themselves without special competition. This is the reason why simply politics and here also by the Federal Minister Ditz are not enough to make constructive policy. Nor can the stories that Mr Auer has told us here be concealed. But it is also worth illuminating ladies and gentlemen, Lambach from the ecological side. I can only agree with what Mr Anschober said here. But I would also like to point out that the actual political exploding capital in this history lies in the dealings of Mr Pühringer's head of state with the Council of State, relating to nature conservation. It is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, that from an occasion, a single occasion, the competences will be changed in order to make a negative decision securely a positive one. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No skills have been changed at all! That's in the state constitution! That's quite legal!]] Of course, I did not say that it is illegal, Mr Kukacka. I'm just saying, If one makes use of this competence in a very specific case to influence this one quite specific case, then the abuse of power and not democratic action, as would normally be the case in a democracy. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This has often happened, not just once!]] I would like to tell you why the subject is also very exciting: The head of state is also the owner of the OKA on this issue. If he is the owner and in this particular case draws on for the OKA competences, which usually do not belong to him... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There has been a positive nature conservation notice at first instance!]] Of course, the state government has decided, ladies and gentlemen. And who has the majority in the state government? [[Calls and calls to the Liberal Forum and to the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] You will not get beyond the fact that this is a matter of occasion, Mr Deputies. The whole excitement that you are producing here cannot conceal the fact that it is a breach of rule. If this breach of rule were to occur in another party, you would rightly point out that you were excited and saying: I can't do that! – Fairs So you do not take two measures in view of your own cases. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Lambach shows that the paradigm change, which should have actually been initiated by Hainburg, has not yet been implemented. And if it is said here by Mr Ditz that the prevention policy is taking place again in this area, then he is determined to object. For it is not a question of preventing something here, but it is a question of, ladies and gentlemen, finally taking note of the fact that Austria has a chance to solve its seasonal problem, such as increased investment in wind power. We can overcome the problem of misunderstanding between the production of electricity in summer and the low-current production in winter, which we currently have to deal with through caloric power plants or through electricity imports, for example by investing in wind power. It is true that the use of wind power is still at a slightly higher price than can be expected from a hydroelectric power plant for a very long time. But one thing is clear: If there is already an expansion rate of more than 90 percent in Upper Austria, then at some point every economically thinking person must conclude: What I can achieve here is simply a higher cost – and whether it is environmental costs and costs that are not directly at hand – than an increased investment in wind power, which is currently growing to zero percent in Austria. Mr Ditz, however, has vehemently tried again today to extend it. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to support your Minister in his efforts to help the wind power in Austria to break through. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13817	I call Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13838	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all a short characteristic of the power plant Lambach. First of all, we believe that from a democratic political point of view, this is a point of view. I do not want to go back to the question of who used any procedures. I'm just saying, I would also like a company in which I can issue my own decisions. – I really call that free market economy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From the point of view of nature conservation and ecology, it is definitely a tragedy. But at least it makes an economic sense to say: All right, it's all that's up for it? - No! It also makes economic nonsense! I'm not going to go into that in detail anymore, that's what my previous speakers have done enough. I would like to make three brief comments which the Minister for Economic Affairs has mentioned today. These three keywords are: Firstly, we have new challenges and a new competitive environment in the e-commerce. - That's right. Secondly, business optimization is not equal to economic optimization. That's right, too. Thirdly, we have certain fractions between national companies and inter-community. – That was probably the understatement of the month. Because these fractions are indeed there. What's going on? – We have a lot of state companies that still have a Lambacherl and still a Lambacherl and still build a power plant and a power plant, and this in view of the overall Austrian surplus situation. There can be no talk of optimal use of the power plant park in Austria for years! Study the opinions made by my colleague Humer from Innsbruck or the colleague Kok from Salzburg: There can be no talk of optimal use at all. It is not to be used in the production of electricity each of the power plants that have the lowest costs, but it is still partially driven by the state companies in the summer with caloric power plants, and that in a situation in which the combined company at the same time has to sell the electricity to abroad at sluder prices! The energy supply companies we have remain the same dwarfs in the international comparison they have always been. And that is the preparation for liberalisation within the EU! The Minister of Economic Affairs knows all of this, there is no question about it. But what happens in Austrian energy policy? I have long given up my hopes for Mr Ditz's predecessor. Mr Ditz, on the other hand, I still expect more than one reference to the constitutional basis! But what's happening right now? – It is not just the Bayern plants that give their hands to the OKA and SAFE. The Electricité de France has also held preliminary talks. Are these the perspectives for the OKA and SAFE? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter, don't!]] No, isn't it? And, on the other hand, do you want to protect yourself with such a power plant? That's what I'm looking at, Mrs Fekter. The opportunities that have existed or may still exist for the construction of an Austrian electricity group are easily lost. For such an electricity group must have a certain size so that it can play an international role. Neither the OKA nor the TIWAG nor the SAFE are in the remotest range in this order, Mrs Fekter! What is opposed to coordination? The jealousy of the national leaders among themselves, the jealousy between the countries, the jealousy between the national societies and the intercommunal society. I would like to expressly say: The combined company very probably also has butter on its head in the whole process! [[Abg. Wabl: Rinty Butter!]] For how is it possible that the joint venture of the OKA supposedly offers the electricity to 80 sizes per kilowatt hour and at the same time sells it by 20 sizes abroad? The interconnector would have theoretically – I suppose – had it in hand to offer the OKA power supplies to these conditions. Then the OKA would have had a little harder to justify why it must build a power plant if the electricity from there is four times more expensive than the electricity from the composite society, at least in summer. - But she didn't. Of course, we all know what's behind that: The heads of state have their small territories of power. As a rule, these areas are ÖVP, apart from Vienna. And the composite society is firmly in the social democratic hand. – In this interweaving of long-standing political traditions, an Austrian energy group that deserves this name cannot, of course, come about! He is not a cooperative federalism, Mr Federal Minister, as you have said. That's something completely different! This is the prevention of competitive structures in the longer term! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The elimination of this immobility and inertia in Austrian energy policy would now be a truly economically interesting task, which the Minister of Energy should and should devote himself to. The Ministry of Economic Affairs does not know how interesting God is from his competences, but we must admit it honestly. A man like Minister Ditz – I say now – should feel almost underprivileged in this ministry. But there's an interesting section there, and that's the energy section. The Greens are bringing in two motions for resolutions which I shall now read immediately. However, I would like to point out in advance that, of course, the last slug of Mr Oberhaidinger has disappointed me a bit. I could have signed your speech, Mr. colleague, from A to Y – almost until Z –. Your last slug in the last five seconds, that you unfortunately cannot join these requests, however, has disappointed me a little. – This reminded me of advice at the university: In the case of dissertations or the like, it sometimes occurs that the expert writes an absolutely negative opinion, but at the end of the work writes "adequately". Or he writes positive first, and the note does not correspond to the opinion. They are, of course, also under political constraints. I totally understand. A certain sacrifice must be offered. That's probably all we need to say. The first motion for a resolution by Mrs Anschober, my friends and friends, concerns the creation of the legal framework for the forced use of wind energy in Austria and states: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second motion for a resolution by Mrs Anschober, friends and friends is very short. It concerns the binding introduction of Least Cost Planning in the electricity sector: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13946	The two motions for resolutions submitted are submitted, supported and negotiated in accordance with the rules of procedure. I call Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e13970	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by focusing on the legal dimension of the Lambach case. Mr. Anschober showed his T-shirt at the beginning, which reads: "Lambach needs you." And he meant: Yes, politicians also need Lambach. – He meant that we should, as it were, intervene in this conflict. I say to you, Mr Anschober: Yes, Lambach needs politicians, and politicians who comply with the laws that stand on the side of the right and not on the side of the rightbreakers. That's why it's first of all! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Say the pühringer!]] I would also like to add, Mr Wabl, to your role in various major projects, from the Pyhrn motorway to the Lambach power plant. A word on the request of the Greens who have spoken: The Federal Government should consider whether this is a large-scale power plant, in which the Federal Government would also have a corresponding competence, because the national law provides that the government could then draw the approval competence. Let's make it clear what it's all about: First of all, it is about the fact that this is a power plant project which has already been approved, for which all the relevant approvals and decisions already exist. Secondly, this power plant Lambach has been included for many years in the coordinated expansion programme of the state companies, the association and the Federal Government. Thirdly, Lambach is not a large-scale power plant and therefore does not fall within the competence of the association, but solely in the competence of a state company and therefore of the country. These are the conditions we must start from, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, I believe that in the fullness of the arguments for the Lambach power plant, the question of the rule of law and the rule of law must be put to the fore at this stage. After all, there has been a ten-year discussion, with citizens and in all political bodies, all procedures have been carried out and all areas have been authorised. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes! Speak to Pühringer a serious word!]] Mr Wabl! You don't understand today. There are water law, forestry law, construction law, nature conservation law and energy permits. That is the truth, and that is why legal compliance with this construction has also been started. [[Abg. Wabl: Fischler approved that, exactly!]] These procedures did not start one or half years ago when you finally thought that a power plant should obviously be built here, but for ten years the arguments have been discussed and decisions have passed through the instance, have been examined for heart and kidney. Therefore, any injustice must also be ruled out. It is clear that all these decisions and permits are legal and legal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You said: We demand an EIA! . Let us note that, when these procedures were under way and the permits were already in place, the EIA law was not yet in force. And even if this EIA law had already existed, Lambach would not have liked it because EVPs are only mandatory for power plants from 15 megawatts and Lambach produces only 14 megawatts. [[Abg. Wabl: You are already talking about the EIA law and not about an ÖVP donation law!]] That's the truth! So Lambach wouldn't even fall under the EIA law, but you obviously don't know that either! [[Abg. Wabl: But under the ÖVP donation law!]] A word about water law and how the case was presented by the Member of the FPÖ: We note that Mr Landesrat Achatz has commissioned his department to draw up a water law decision. A positive decision was made by the department, i.e. by the competent officials. However, the Council of State then sent a negative request to the Government of the State through its office on the basis of a political direction. This approach was rejected by Mr Landeshuptmann, with the agreement of the Socialists. It has not allowed a political decision to be taken but has led, as planned, to the decision to be taken by the competent officials and by the competent department. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth, these are the facts! [[Abg. May. Stadler: They were just random black officials!]] To the nature conservation notice and how it was presented here: It must also be said in this case that there has been a positive decision at first instance by the District Headquarters. The Nature Conservation Act provides that this nature conservation notice, if a member of the state government wants it or if the collegial body wants it, can, of course, be liked by the entire state government in such an important matter as a power plant. And that is exactly what happened in this case in accordance with the law, as has already happened in many other cases! I think it is important and right that it is about such an important matter as a power plant that a whole state government breaks its head, takes a decision or leaves a decision, and not just a single member of the government. And that is exactly what happened in this case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. What about the ÖVP donation law?]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word to the demonstrators: Mr Wabl and Mr Anschober, beware of this. Of course, we have the highest respect for those who, in their free time, make sacrifices for idealism at their own expense and, according to their conviction, sign up and demonstrate their protest. But I do not think much of it if it is organized throughout the country, if it is advertised in newspaper advice and if it is even paid for. For this there is an NGOs-proportional payment, so it is stated in the Global 2000 ads! – You can’t deny that either, ladies and gentlemen, that’s to be read. Even the "TATblatt" ridicules in this case about Global 2000 and the methods used. This too is a fact that you can't disprove! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Are you "TATblatt" reader?]] Of course I read the "TATblatt"! I also always read the comments of Mr. Ollinger, who is a guest commentator at the "TATblatt", which does not surprise me, because his spiritual relationship with the editors of the "TATblatt" is clear to everyone in this house anyway. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also somewhat curious about the fact that the Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has received the representatives of Global 2000. Of course, that's for him. But if he had already received representatives of power stations, I would have expected him to say a clear and exhorting word regarding the ongoing calls for the breach of justice by this organization. For it is a fact that Global 2000 and the rest of the occupiers do not care about the existing permits, that they are unlawfully entering into restricted areas, that they hinder construction workers in their work, that they disregard foreign property, that they occupy construction vehicles and demand foreign tractors. If you are silent about this, ladies and gentlemen, then you are also advocating the continued hallucination of our rule of law, and we are acting very decisively against it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The great majority of the people, Mr Wabl, expect their politicians to comply with rule of law and not be eroded by silence, by tactical behaviour or even by the support of lawbreakers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the use of the executive also costs a lot of money. The use of the executive has already cost 4.5 million schilling due to the continuing occupation action. In view of the savings package, this is already seen by many citizens, especially those on the ground, as a mockery and as a blow to the face of our rule of law, and we are also acting decisively against it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wabl! Mr Anschober and all the others who do not want to take this seriously. Personally, it is incomprehensible that Members of Parliament, who are committed to the constitution and the laws, not only justify, but even support, the illegal and unlawful driving of the occupation of power stations. In any case, this is a policy that we as the People's Party will certainly not support! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not the head of state who is responsible for the conflicts resulting from the occupation, but, ladies and gentlemen, only the power plant occupyers and the supporting forces. The division of the illegal occupation is therefore well justified by the law. Because in a rule of law it cannot be allowed to happen in the end if a small group of demonstrators by unlawful means prevents a legally covered and approved construction measure by the authorities. Everything else meant putting the rule of law on the head, and we will not allow that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, if the Greens are actually interested in resolving the conflict, they should call on the occupyors to leave the building site and make use of their right of demonstration outside the construction site. That is of course for them. [[Abg. Wabl: Thank you!]] However, they could also make an important contribution to remedying the situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear that we will continue to insist on the enforcement of the rule of law, and we know that the vast majority of the Upper Austrian population is behind us. You can be sure of it. The recent surveys at the height of the conflict also show that over 60 percent of the Upper Austrians are behind the construction of the power plant and behind the position of the Upper Austrian head of state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14183	Mr Brix has now been reported to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14205	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a non-super-Austrian, I was very interested in what it looks like in Lambach, so I allowed myself to visit the place together with my friend Peter Doppelmüller and convince myself. And I have to say honestly: I found a beautiful river landscape, a river landscape, overlaid by two beautiful places, and actually a lot of friendly people, no matter which side they stood on. [[Abg. Auer: But did you not find one?]] I'm just saying, "Let's go." I noticed that among the demonstrators there were not only opponents of the project. There were also other Upper Austrians who were not demonstrators who could not befriend themselves with the construction site and who did not see any special meaning in this project. Also, I was and still am not convinced of the sensuality of the project. If you take data at hand, you start doubting: There are corresponding documents from the OKA, in which the power plant, when in operation, produces a power output of 14 megawatts. There is, however, another OKA project, after which a power-heat coupling could be established in four places, which brings 78 megawatts in comparison to this 14 megawatts – which in fact are just ridiculous – in other words, a five and a half times of what the Lambach power plant can do later. In view of this, I wonder if it is really necessary to build this power plant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I think you should really consider and look for the dialogue about what is more meaningful for Austria: a modern, usable and, above all, environmentally friendly energy source such as this power-heat combination, or necessarily to provide this really beautiful river landscape with a power plant if you could really make it better? Ladies and gentlemen! What made me particularly magnificent as Wiener is that we have learned nothing from it for more than ten years after Hainburg. We have learned nothing through the case of Hainburg, we have not tried to talk to people in good time about it. – Today is by colleagues The power plant Freudnau has already been addressed. The process, when the power plant Freudnau was built, I consider it right, presumptuous and decent. In particular, the Viennans tend to be very critical, and they are known and screamed as the "runzers". The Wiener were also very, very critical of this power plant Freudnau. Only, in contrast to the process in Lambach, the project was first presented before the construction of the Wiener Kraftwerk Freudnau. One could see the studies and one could discuss them. And after that, the Viennans were questioned; there was a popular survey about it. And in this population survey, almost 75 percent of the women and men in this city have spoken out for the Joynau power plant. Today there really is a large power plant that will produce an annual production of 1,037 gigawatt hours, a large power plant that will be able to provide 270 000 Austrian households with its capacity. Although we will be burdened with financing costs of 12.6 billion Schilling – based on September 1991 – but it has also been committed to truly meeting all the requirements of nature conservation, namely 384 requirements of the principle of water law and 200 environmental requirements. By complying with all ecological requirements, this power plant also complies with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. This power plant also contributes to the improvement of the shipping system, because the rail-train could be more dredged and the in-depth stop is offered. In addition – and that is especially dear to my heart – this large power plant Freudnau is the last power plant to be built on the Danube off the Austrian border. After that there is a free flow line of the Danube. I wanted to make this comparison because the Freudnau power plant is an example of how to deal with such sensitive issues of environmental policy today: First, one convinces the population, asks them about it, and only then will action be taken. In Lambach one did not ask the population, one simply built and thus provoked these protests. That was certainly not the right thing to do, on the contrary. Today, too, one should try to establish a dialogue and consider whether it is sensible to establish this power plant. If a base for dialogue is found, you could finally start with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14250	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14272	Mr President. Minister! High house! I have already noticed one thing in today's debate: You of the ÖVP always act as the great Europeans, you are for the free market economy, but you are not able to pursue an energy policy within Austria – thank you, Mr Haigermoser – that makes real sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] There are fights between OKA and interconnected. One can imagine that there has been such a thing in gray times, but still clinging to such a system today is really incomprehensible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And because democracy has been spoken of: Mrs Fekter and Mr Kukacka! Every house builder and every company must take note of the information. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The OKA too!]] The OKA – "we, the OKA", which the Mr. Ratzenböck has done – gives itself according to wishes. That's your concept of democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another, dear colleague from the ÖVP: For the ÖVP, the conservationists are left chaots. But I remind you: When it comes to organizing demonstrations against the Freedom Party, these left chaots, even if they come from Vienna or from abroad or anywhere else, are always right for you. I would remind you of the light chain in Linz, where Mr. Landeshuptmann Ratzenböck is marching hand in hand with these left demonstrators. Depending on how it is popular to you, you get it out, and if you don't need it anymore or if they act against your policy, then they're left chaots again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With your clasp, you are subject to the superfluous construction of the Lambach power plant of the attraction of old thinking. There are alternatives to the hydroelectric power plants for the longer term. Longest! The biomass would be like that. For the costs of the power plant Lambach, we could build 25 biomass heating plants. This would mean work to the last village, decentralized energy policy, and we would have energy if we needed it in winter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But politics defends its protected areas with teeth and claws. And the OKA – and that's why you defend it like that – is such a protected area. This also shows how Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer identifies himself with the OKA: "We, the OKA." [[Abg. May. Firlinger: My OKA!]] Yeah, my OKA. The ÖVP politician Pühringer and the OKA are one. And the OKA was and is a prison camp for unloving politicians. I remember the former head of state Wenzl. Where did he go after he became unpleasant, for whatever reason? - In the OKA. I remember Mr. Fridl. Where did he come from? - In the OKA. And the gentlemen live there at the expense of the electricity providers like in the Schlaraffenland. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How the Mades in the bacon!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of the OCA, additional 29 supplements are granted voluntarily to the 15 allowances granted under the collective agreement. The service providers and pensioners still receive electricity free of charge or extremely discounted. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a privilege!]] A privilege stadium par excellence! 2 000 employees cost 1.2 billion schilling in the year. And the cost of the 1987 pension payments – this year the Court of Auditors report – was saying and writing 132 million schilling. Six former board members receive a pension of 6.4 million Schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much?]] Six former board members receive an annual pension of over 6 million Schilling! And the contributions for the board of directors – and this is also quite interesting – were fourteen times 500 000 S. Social additional expenditure of active employees and pensioners – that must be broken down once on the tongue: [[Abg. Haigermoser: crazy!]] additional costs, not wage costs; Additional expenditure for employees and pensioners –: 321 million schilling a year. This is half the cost of the Lambach power plant, which is spent in one year alone for the additional effort. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is so cheap!]] This is so cheap, Mr Schwarzenberger. You know, the role of the Farmer's Federation in the power plant Lambach is like always a pitiful one! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have been given the order, you have to take a position for the power plant, and you have done so naturally. Here in plenary, you are talking about biomass, Mr Schwarzenberger. There you can realize it now. Around 600 million schillings, which the power plant Lambach is supposed to cost – it's funny, every month it will be a bit less, but let's say, 600 million – could be built 20 biomass heating plants. But we still the areas, the farmers are degrading to subsidies, and the rulings in the OKA can continue to wriggle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You can build your biomass heat plant! I built one!]] Just briefly to the salary schedule in this privilege stage OKA, which you want to receive under all circumstances: The work force of the OKA is about 300,000 s in the year, while an industrial worker earns around 217,000 s in the year. A staff member of the OKA receives about 512 000 S, while an industrial worker receives 374 000 S. I understand that you want to receive these protected areas. All the real believable arguments just wipe away from the table. I really listened back there and listened to these calls. It is indescribable: Any argument that has been put forward, whether from the Greens, the Liberals, the Socialists or from the Liberals – it is simply swept away. Like concrete in my heads, I have to say that. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Stahlbeton!]] Yes, steel concrete! As for taxpayers' money, Mrs Fekter, you are really nothing too expensive. The electricity converters have to pay for this anyway. You can't even choose it. You finance your privileges with the money of the electricity-reducers, and now you also want to build this power plant, which really does not need a person who is ecologically and economically absurd. How far this Freudian promiseer of Mr. Pühringer – "we, the OKA", "my OKA" – goes – has shown himself at the round table, to which Mr. Landesbührer finally invited. A letter has been submitted to him, which must be presented to him, as follows: A woodworking plant from Stadl Paura has been commissioned in a million-height order for the Lambach power plant. And now he has received a letter from the OKA that the contract of the company has been withdrawn. Do you know with what argument? – Because all municipal councils in Stadl Paura voted against the power plant. Now the company doesn't get the order because they're so bad. A colleague of mine has shown this letter to Mr Landeshuptmann Ratzenböck, and do you know how the reaction of the head of state was Ratzenböck – Pühringer? [[Call the Freeman:Pühringer!]] He took this letter, threw it to the Director-General Windtner from the OKA and said: Do it! – "We, the OKA." You can be proud of that, I can really tell you! Do you really know – this is interesting, even for the people in Upper Austria – that the members of the board of directors refer to two months as a building premium when a power plant has been completed? So it is clear that the rulers are on bends and breaks for the construction of power plants. They don't care if they're economic – the electricity customer has to pay. You are not a single argument – not a single one! – accessible. The myth of clean hydropower is really a myth. I experience this in my immediate surroundings. Originally, before the Wilhering power plant was built, there was a beautiful outdoor landscape, where the Danube really flowed freely. Then the power plant was built. The Danube and the Aschach were forced into concrete walls, and now – "flows" can no longer be said at all – the Danube is very slowing down, a greyish-brown band. An asphalt road has been built on kilometres, and there the cyclists drive like the racers. No one can walk in the Au or at the Danube anymore, as it used to be. It is true that energy from hydropower, Mr Kukacka, has had its meaning. But I say: had! There are now better alternatives. I can only tell you: You, we and I can't answer it in any way if there are other alternatives, for example biomass, Mr Kukacka... [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: You can't create electricity from biomass!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] It is clear that there are no board salaries, social expenses or super-pensions, Mr Kukacka, I can already imagine that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You can't flow biomass, Mrs. Colleague!]] The Lambach hydroelectric power plant produces summer electricity, which we export and discard for large amounts. It doesn't matter to you, it pays the electricity. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I have a biomass work myself! You can build one too!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I do not understand that you do not speak or speak of biomass. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Yes, Mr Schwarzenberger, but you know very well that there is no chance of a new form of energy without political support. There's never been a chance! There is nothing else but that the board members of the OKA want to register building premiums again. There is nothing else but the need to preserve protected areas, and you do not care about the environment and the economy at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14533	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14555	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate in its entire structure and its course is, in fact, only a proof of where one comes from when one is putting reforms ahead for decades. We would not have the entire problem area of Lambach, OKA and all the facets that have been illuminated by my previous speakers, in particular by the opposition, but also by the Social Democracy, if we had one at the end of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website The Federal Minister has even suggested with caution and care that he sees it that way. I quote again what my previous speaker said. Van der Bellen has quoted: "a certain fractions between the association and the national societies". – This is the most polite of all possible forms, but it is an alarm sign for someone who is deeply concerned with this area, if the Federal Minister already says something like this, although incredibly strong political implications are in it, especially the implication of federal states, the implication of federally different countries, the tension relationship between national leaders, the sole or main shareholders of their country companies, and a federal minister who has a consortium vis-à-vis that has failed but is partially privatized. All these tensions are quite clear when he says, "A certain fractions between alliances and national societies." Only, these certain fractions, which may be, when the board is talking, are just a few fractions, or, if they speak to the Minister of State, they may move in the context of a well-kept discussion, which then cumulate in the Au near Lambbach as an argument of demonstrating citizens with a wild country bureaucracy. We don't need that. This is not a means of defending the rule of law, but it is a means of damaging the rule of law. For if the rule of law behaves as it does in Lambbach, when it presents this spectacle, that the rule of law apparently has to be enforced with the aid of the executive, even though it should actually be very reasonable in economic processes, then it is precisely this, Mr Kukacka, that an essential element has been lost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] The rule of law lives on the fact that citizens accept it as functioning, and if they go to demonstrate it, that means that they do not experience it more than function. That is no wonder, if the conflict of interest is not just obvious, but cumulated in a person, namely in this case in the person of the head of state Pühringer! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is, of course, interchangeable. It is only a historical coincidence that the head of state in question is called Pühringer. If it had been a few months or years before, it would have been called rat-buck, and it would have been exactly the same. That is not the question of the personal psychogram of the head of state, but that is the case of incompatibility. That is why this excitement of Mr Kukacka is understandable. Mr Auer, who has ex-temporated here, was so excited because it is, of course, unpleasant if it suddenly turns out that groups which are sometimes in serious conflicts focus on one point at a time. Everyone with other arguments, but in principle, it is always based on the fact that a power plant is enforced with "right-wing" force that no one needs! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The economic dimension is that several hundred million schillings are not invested. At a time when the Federal Government is trying – in our opinion not quite right, but at least – to exploit 100 million, since 500 million, since 30 million and there a billion, in order to get some of the budget into the hands of some, are not invested in 500 million. If this were done in a functioning electricity economic system, the Boards responsible for this would have long been appointed, the Supervisory Boards would have been held responsible for long ago, and shareholders would call up. In this case, however, it is the shareholder who gives direct instructions who says: "My OKA", who sends a letter to a Director-General, who is on and on board as a member of the board of directors, as Mr Aumayr beautifully described it, and says: Do it! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's why he gets the board premium!]] A managing director of some sort of reputation cannot do that either by his shareholder, but he asks the question of trust in the Supervisory Board. If, however, he insists on staying there as managing director, because he would never only be a prokura in another business, then he will let himself be pleased! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You know very well that the OKA is trying to cast some serious misconceptions that it has made in previous years with Lambbach. I only remind you of the small conflict with the ESG, where the terms of reference – these were the predecessors of the current Director-General, I admit to you – were put on the nose by the ESG gas turbines and thus suddenly suffered losses in volumes, i.e. sales losses. Against this background, do you need Lambach? And you, Mr Kukacka, know that very well, because you are Austrian insiders. If you weren't insiders, you wouldn't be so upset either! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Because I know myself unlike most others!]] Sure! Mr Kukacka! Because you know yourself because you are insiders, you are so excited, but not because you feel right, but because you feel caught! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They show the very classic behavior of a person who has been caught and who hopes that he will manage the debate in some way when he is aggressive, and who also hopes that not all will know as much as he himself knows. But there are some people who know almost as much as you do, and many even know more than you do. They know very well that this is a question of ODA's complacentness, triggered by its main shareholder, the country of Upper Austria, and in this case, therefore, is a classical case of inconsistency and inconsistency! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would have hoped that, if the Federal Minister had already said that there were certain fractions, you would have come to realize in some way that you at least thought that this conflict, which he meant, would have to be resolved. But you have not even approached this conflict OKA – association – state companies – structural reform – transregional networks – unbundling – but you have just pretended to be a power plant that is first excellent, second economically, third is urgently needed and fourthly is built in a landscape that seems to be just a restaurant or a corn field, as Mr. colleague said, which is to be enjoyed with motor saws. You have not addressed the real questions at all! And this is also typical of the behavior of someone who feels caught trying to distract. Or he's acting like the rumple stylus that bumps up with his foot and says: Oh, how good that no one knows I'm called OKA Zwargerl'! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, I say to you, the reform of the electricity industry we need will not succeed. But if the starting point is so superior and if reason is put behind party egoism such a way, then the reform that will be very difficult will not succeed. It will not be easy to convince the country of Tyrol that it must make a contribution to the trans-regional networks; it will not be easy to convince the country of Lower Austria that Director General Gruber is not constantly negotiating with the Bayern works and with the EdF, but that he should finally sit at the Austrian tables. It won't be easy. It will also not be quite easy to create an order in STEWEAG, which will make it economic again. The Barmüller colleague has read here that STEWEAG fears that self-produktural plants in the industry will be invested which, although they need to be reinvested, apparently operate more cheaply than the STEWEAG at dumping rates. This shows that something is going wrong in STEWEAG, because there are old, depreciated hydroelectric power plants there, and yet STEWEAG is apparently no longer able to compete with newly invested investments in the industry. Or do you think that an industrial company invests in an electric self-production plant if that is more expensive than buying it out of STEWEAG? We will have to solve all these problems for a short or long time, otherwise we will be as small dwarfs according to the need of the playing ball of the Bayern plants, the RWE, the EdF, the Preussag – you can read through the calendar of the electricity industry. Then it will no longer be useful to Mr. Windtner that the head of state is his friend, then the economy will roll over him in its reality, and I will tell you one thing: Sometimes people wonder if this would not even be better if they did not think about Austria because the Bayern plants would not have invested in Lambbach, you believe me that they would have looked at it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They deliver nuclear power!]] Mrs Fekter! If you believe that you can bring the atomic current here with a small polemic attack, I must tell you: This is not the issue in this case. The issue is that I said that the Bayern works had not invested in Lambbach because they can count and are not dependent on presenting a beautiful solemn day to Mr. Landeshupt a band that he can cut through at the opening – that is another facet of Lambbach. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The public understanding of Mr Pühringer is consistent with his democratic understanding for me. It is only with the stock company that it is still working if the Executive Director is not aware that he is not wise. This does not work for the population. Pühringer believes that Upper Austria belongs to him. The voters see this differently and will increasingly see it differently, and he gets a receipt different from in the Annual General Meeting, where he can vote for himself by 100 percent alone. It doesn't work that way in democracy. But his sense of democracy is that, because if someone within the state government uses his fractional majority to change the competences for a single occasion... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: It's the majority!]] If a person uses the majority in the state government to change the competences for a single case, he has the sense of democracy policy of a single shareholder who rides sleds with his board members! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] With no word I have said that he cannot make use of the majority! I have spoken about his political understanding of democracy, which is usually called the regulation of cause. It is quite clear, moreover, that the division of competence is there to prevent such a arbitrariness, so that a collegial body, such as the national government of a Member State, can work in a collegial way. But I don't know if it's collegial, if you just need it for yourself, then you redistribut the skills in the individual case. Mr Auer thinks it's great. This is interesting and I am pleased because it confirms once again my opinion that I have been formed by him on the basis of his present contribution to the debate: He too has an disturbed relationship with democracy. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14702	I call Mr Wabl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14724	Mr President. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have to distribute hundreds, not 20!]] Greeting God, Lord Haigermoser! Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! Today was another rich lesson for me! Mr. Auer has explained to me what "Goldhaube" can still be. So far I've always believed that "Goldhaube" is this radar surveillance system in the federal army. Since today I know that it can also be imported demonstrators in Lambbach, for Mr Auer has said that all demonstrators and demonstrators would have been imported, only a few are decent and honest like Mr Auer himself, who was there and demonstrated for the rule of law. – As far as the gold cap and these military things are concerned, however, I do not know how well, Mr Fassl evening is certainly much better. As far as agricultural things are concerned, I have learned a lot again. Apparently a whole new management method in Upper Austria has been introduced. Mr Schwarzenberger will certainly be very pleased that a whole new maize cultivation method has been developed there: First of all, you try to water the corn properly. This is not so easy, for it is necessary to build dams. In order to harvest the corn, we need chain saws, because there is obviously already genetic engineering in the Kukacka Secret Laboratory, namely corn with very thick trunks. Schwarzenberger will be happy to be so efficient in Upper Austria. I didn't know. – You then have to decide where the demonstrators beat the nails, in corn trunks or in wooden trunks. You'll have to decide sometime! But you're still going to find out with your special management method. Mr Molterer will help you to do so, especially if he withdraws the regulation on the basis of the beautiful motion for a resolution, which will find a majority here today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I thought that Mr Kukacka, as he was sitting in the immediate vicinity of the former Minister for the Environment, might be interested in what he said at the time, when she was thinking of the environment, about this power plant in a parliamentary reply to a question. Mr Bartenstein's successor has made it very difficult for him to succeed him. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: I'm interested in that now!]] I know that the Minister for the Environment has written every question himself, as opposed to me, because I sometimes have questions written by speakers. But she certainly wrote every answer herself, and in this case she said: "Although no own surveys have been carried out by my department, it can nevertheless be derived from the documents I have available, that the projecting area has a very high species potential and is ecologically very valuable." It probably means the high corn stems, the low corn stems, the half-high corn stems, the thick corn stems, the thin corn stems. That's probably what she means. She means the cornpod and all these many things that happen in maize cultivation. In addition, it even gives a judgment on economics. I don't know if you're interested, Mr. Kukacka.Unknown term type: "%s".? Are you interested in how your former Environment Minister and current Secretary-General appreciate this? She stands like a woman behind Pühringer, behind OKA-Pühringer and behind the head of state Pühringer. She probably understood exactly what this is all about, namely the great ÖVP procedure. You have created this today as a substitute for the EIA procedure. The EIA procedure is a bit too complicated for you, I understand: Therefore, the citizens come, ask annoying questions, they want large power plants, small power plants, and then they don't want any more power plants at all. That's annoying! An ÖVP procedure is much easier. Here comes Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer, welcomes the OKA owner representative Pühringer and says: God, Mr. Pühringer, how are you? We're doing an ÖVP procedure. Are our party funds filled, yes or no? – The answer is: Yeah, what's under it? You, Mr. OKA-representative, we are not bribery! We make our administrative procedures correct and clean! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why don't you make a popular desire?]] When this ÖVP procedure is finally completed, Mr. Pühringer will appeal to the Secretary-General of the ÖVP and say: We have now had a very lengthy procedure, but, dear Mary, you are no longer an Environment Minister, you can agree to the procedure. Let's forget what you said earlier. Now the rule of law must remain right. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Right must remain right!]] And what does Kukacka do? – Kukacka comes to the speaker's desk and says: Right must remain right, and ÖVP should remain long, long ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Right must remain right!]] [[Abg. Kiss: What’s wrong with that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Mr Kukacka! Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Koppler remember exactly how the procedures were with regard to Hainburg. The same speeches have been made here: The rule of law must remain the rule of law, the procedures are all valid, everything must be carried out, we cannot allow a handful of imported professional demonstrators to undermine the rule of law. – Just the same sentences you said at the time, you repeat them again today. I believe that within the SPÖ the ability to learn is much greater. Mr Koppler, of course, also thinks of his workers, and I somehow understand that he has a somewhat divided consciousness there. But as he now looks at it, it will not take much longer until he understands that within the nationalized industry plants can be built much more cost-effective and with much greater energy exploitation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rudi Anschober has given me many motions for resolutions, so I have to read them before. Perhaps I have a little time to accept Mrs Fekter's energy understanding, which does not know exactly what to do with biomass. But first of all, the motions for resolutions tabled by the honourable Member. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am convinced that the Minister for Agriculture is thinking of his farmers and biomass production. It is precisely what farmers could do in this sector in the Court of Auditors' report, and it will certainly take care of it. The third motion for a resolution, which my highly valued Lambach fighter Mr. Anschober has given me, concerns minimum standards of democracy policy in the organisation of the state administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elmecker.]] Elmecker! Is anything understandable? Then I'll slow down. Because you are also a member of the National Council, and you too are meant to do so. [[Quoted print version removed]] That was the third request. I'm almost finished. I wanted to talk about the new understanding of the free market economy. I also wanted to address Mrs Fekter for biomass. Mrs. Aumayr managed to say something about biomass here. They called down: We need electricity! We want electricity, electricity, not biomass! That's what I thought: Mrs Fekter was a very intelligent, very careful State Secretary, who probably understands a lot about the gravel business. But it should be told by the Minister for Agriculture or by Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Schwarzböck that biomass can also be poured out. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Explain to me how many biomass plants there are in Austria that generate electricity!]] That's actually possible! I didn't believe it either! Then I looked at this plant in Upper Austria. There is a wonderful facility in Upper Austria. There you can get electricity from biomass, and the OKA takes it off smoothly! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the Greens, the Liberal Forum and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter! You, as a representative of the free market economy, have brought me together with Mr Kukacka and Mr Kukacka The five freedoms of the free market economy are explained here. Free market economy means, if it has gone through a proper EIA procedure, first: free of reason, second: free from rule of law, third: free from competition, fourth: free from skruples in the payment of salaries and pensions, and fifth: free from national economic considerations. Mrs Fekter! I now know what free market economy is. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14951	The three selected motions for resolutions are submitted, supported and negotiated in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mrs Fekter has now been mentioned. - I give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e14975	Mr President. Minister! After the cabaretist deposits of our colleague Wabl at 1 o'clock back to the energy debate. For those who are still sober and able to listen, I would like to become objective. [[Calls.]] Mr Kier has spoken here about the power plant that no one needs. Some previous speakers from the opposition and also from Mr Oberhaidinger have talked about the overcapacity of electricity generation and have argued that, in any case, there is enough electricity in Austria, we are building a power plant in Lambbach, which nobody needs. Therefore, I've been more intensive about what it really looks like with the electricity requirement: What does the Energy Report say? What do the experts say? – There is a very young study by Wifo, written by university professors Dr. Jansen and Dr. Musil under the title "The application and need of electrical energy in Austria until 2005. In this I have found the supposed discrepancy, why they say that there is so much electricity produced anyway, that we cannot consume it at all, and the others say that we very much need a power plant. – There is currently no overcapacity, according to the authors of the study, under the proven assumption of reserve maintenance for a high-security power supply. This reserve is used to bridge economic fluctuations, underwaters, power plant failures. It is practised to a similar extent in most EU countries. Reduced reserve maintenance reduces security of supply, potentially endangering the economic location, but could very well be shifted to other nations, such as the Bayern-Werke et cetera. Mr Hofmann! Is he still there? - No, he's not here anymore. In fact, it has brought figures on electricity production and consumption in Upper Austria. However, the above reserve is discrepancy. I am politically convinced that we Austrians are very likely to maintain this reserve, for which we have also committed ourselves internationally. There is therefore no overcapacity, and we need this power plant very well. The trend in the energy report, despite the realization of savings potential, is expected to increase the demand for electricity. If you know how long you need to build a power plant, then it is unthinkable to start building a power plant that starts in 1996 from the electricity demand of 1994. You know very well that in terms of how electricity demand will develop, you have to plan ten years ahead and longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] It is also stated in the energy report that the whole energy policy in Austria is being pursued by hydrothermal compounds, namely that there are two thirds of hydroelectric power plants and one third of calorie power plants. This also eliminates the argument of the "twining", which is repeatedly cited, as a false argument. Upper Austria is based on this requirement: two thirds of hydropower and one third of caloric power plants. The structure of the Austrian electricity generation and supply plants is characterized by a close cooperation between association and Landes-EVUs, even though – as mentioned several times here today – this cooperation does not always run smoothly. The defined division of tasks still works. That is to say, subsidiarity is taken into account by the federal structure, and the central structure of the Verbund AG coordinates and ensures transport and reserve maintenance. The production and sales function is mainly carried by the state companies. And for this task, namely production and sale, the OKA Lambach is building. This ensures customer proximity and efficiency, and this should remain the case. This system has proved to be excellent so far, and through even closer cooperation or mutual restraint – Mr Van der Bellen is not here now – one will be able to stand up for the future liberalisation of the European market. I'm not for sale. Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Kier have done this. You just smoked a cigarette, I hope you enjoy it. I am not for the sale of the Austrian e-business to Bavaria or to the French. I do not want Austria to become an enclave of the atomic lobby. Austrian interests must be safeguarded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I also do not believe that the OKA as a state company will be able to move in the international field through the construction of the Lambbach power plant alone. For this we need constrictions and closer cooperation. Whether with or without the EU's electricity directive, we will be the second. Nationalization law must be replaced by a new regulation, creating a new energy organisation law that will bring more market, but which, according to my political understanding, must also bring decentralisation. Austria is pursuing a modified single-buyer model in its energy liberalisation. As a big customer, I welcome this. That means: It is not only allowed to import and export the association, it is also allowed to do so by the Landesgesellschaften. For future optimal cooperation and coordination, the most appropriate way to ensure security of supply, optimise power plant construction and achieve competitive electricity prices will be the mutual restriction between EVUs and interconnection. Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Kier. In this case, it is not In this way Austrian environmental policy will also be able to be pursued in the E-Economy, apart from the forced use of renewable energy sources. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs Aumayr! I'll give you a little support on biomass energy. This produces primary heat. It is also mainly used for district heating, i.e. for heating. While electricity generation with biomass plants is technically possible, it is not yet profitable. There is no biomass plant in Austria that works in co-generation and also produces electricity.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15067	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing this urgent question about the Lambbach power plant today, we should also highlight the energy-efficient backgrounds of this power plant building. In my opinion, Chief of State Pühringer and Director-General Winter have said this clearly and clearly: The OKA wants to increase its own production share very easily and thus reduce the acquisitions of the joint venture. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This may well be justified from the business strategic and operational point of view of the OKA, however, whether this power plant construction is useful in the light of the Austrian energy policy as a whole, but it really needs to be considered more precisely. Sure: The Kraftwerk Lambach is included in the coordinated expansion programme. The coordinated development programme is an instrument in which the various energy supply companies agree on planned capacity expansion and coordinated operation. This coordination is necessary with a view to the three-part construction of the Austrian electricity industry – a composite society, state companies and municipal companies – because competition against each other instead of a common procedure under the competitive conditions of the European internal market would lead to a disputing Austrian energy industry becoming largely foreign in the medium term. – On this point I share the opinion of Mr Kier. The Austrian energy industry combined is really a dwarf compared to leading European electricity companies such as the Preussag, RWE or the Electricité de France. We should always be aware of this in all the discussions we are having here, especially in the context of the discussions on the Lambach power plant, which we are discussing today. All the more necessary is a new Energy Organisation Act, as already provided for in the last Government Convention, but no longer as a result of the dissolution of the National Council. There is a need to create framework conditions that will allow the electricity industry to react internally to the increasing competitive pressure and to prepare organisationally for the expected Internal Electricity Market Directive. An analysis of the Austrian electricity market shows that electricity consumption in the field of public electricity supply is stagnating or is even partly declining. The stagnation of electricity consumption among the Landesgesellschaft and thus also with the combined company results mainly from the increasing self-sufficiency of large customers as well as the increase in the cost-effective share of self-sufficiency due to combined heat and power in the municipalities. As this trend is expected to continue, both Austrian market development and the need to adapt the organisational structure of the electricity industry to the changed market conditions are both due to the European Union's competitive approach. Required is a concept that enables the public order to be secured and high-quality power supply to be combined with an orderly competition. The Commission's internal market approach aims to enable large customers from 100 gigawatt hours of annual electricity loss and distributors to make direct contact with the supplier of their choice, leaving the individual States the way in which they implement the competitive approach. The public debate gives the impression that it would already be possible to adapt to the challenges ahead by further privatisation of the e-commerce and that the market would regulate everything. Ladies and gentlemen! A scale comparison with European competitors EdF, RWE, ENEL, Bayernwerk, Preussag et cetera, each of which is actually larger than all Austrian EVUs combined, shows that they could buy and subordinate to any Austrian electrical processing company for sale. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is important that in the future we succeed in considering the provision of low-cost energy as an important part of the economic infrastructure, to realize that we have to stand up for security of supply and prevent disturbances and, above all, to ensure that Austria's economic location is safeguarded by a targeted energy policy. Austrian environmental policy – for example, the achievement of the Toronto target – must not be undermined by eco-dumping, for example by importing cheap electricity from plants that would be banned in Austria – I think in this case nuclear power plants. This applies to both domestic and foreign energy providers. I would have made a number of other proposals, but because of the advanced period, I would just like to sum up more that energy policy has been much more than a power plant building programme for some time. Optimizations and efficiency improvements have long been taking place. There has long been cooperation with industry and households to minimise energy consumption – and as another important task of international networking. With EU accession, issues of the competitiveness of our infrastructure have also become virulent. Who, in the face of these problems, is only referring to a discussion of power plant construction: yes or no? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15159	I call Mrs Elfriede Madl. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15183	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! On the urgent request of the liberals in the Federal Council on the construction of power plants in Lambbach, a SPÖ Federal Council has appealed to the head of state of Upper Austria that he should go away from his demonstration of strength, because this is a sign of stubbornness, uneducatedness and ignorance. I am even going a little further and I say that this stubbornness goes so far as to create a power plant in Upper Austria that, from an economic, economic and labour market point of view, there is a flop that such good money for the electricity consumers is unaware of – and this comes from a prophylaxis of a country chief who is desperate to leave the shadow of his predecessor until the next country elections in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! This is the only reason why this power plant building in Lambbach is so intrusive: Because this head of state is trying to get out of the shadow of his predecessor, because he cannot profile himself, finds no line, and therefore believes that by using a power plant construction, he must display a Macho-port so that he may convey leadership skills to the population. That's the only reason! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Really?]] It is also not apprehensive that decisions which are not acceptable simply not to be adopted and to withdraw the competence from the relevant departments. You've heard this many times today! This head of state speaks of "we, the OKA" – and he is not even ashamed to say that on television – so to speak: "we, the Republic". He has thus spoken in the Pluralis majestatis, and he even rejects opinions, namely opinions by university professor Dr. Rainer Schauer, who says: From an economic point of view, no clear advantages or clear disadvantages of these variants can be derived from these variants of the power plant. From an economic point of view, the decision on Lambach should therefore be based on the criteria of decision-making that are relevant to the economy. The study of Mag. Markus Wiedermann of the Institute for Economic Theory in Innsbruck says: "Although the calculations with a high degree of Insecurity, however, seems to me to say that the Lambach power plants and especially saws are not profitable from an economic point of view, as probably right. To an even greater extent, this applies to the assessment of the beneficialness of these investments from a national economic point of view. The facts of a significant non-performance of the swelling operation and the intrusion by the authorities further strengthen this thesis." – That means that the required consideration is according to Mag. From the economic and business point of view, the next man has made a negative assessment. In the labour market, too, this power plant is not the way one always wants it to be. The power plant construction directly employs 1 043 employees per 1 billion Schilling; the adaptation building, the revitalization or thermal insulation, on the other hand, employs 1 945. This means that the construction of power plants is below 25 percent of the working intensity of the construction industry, whereas the adaptation industry is 50 percent above that. If you add the employment effects of those in the sectors in question to these direct effects, you will have a 1 billion schilling investment per year in the power plant and 1 300 in employment effects, but 2 200 in the adaptation construction, which is 70 percent more. This comparison shows that, from the point of view of employment, a demand-side energy policy for the electricity sector can create or maintain significantly more jobs than is the case with the construction of power plants. Mr Colleagues Auer just invaded four people who are for Lambach. I will now list a few of you who are against the power plant Lambach, for example all environmental protection organisations, WWF, Global 2,000, the "Citizen Initiative Traun" is against, Greenpeace, the Austrian Ecology Institute, the Upper Austrian Nature Conservation Association, the Austrian Society for Nature and Environmental Protection, the ÖGNU Environmental Roof Association, all environmental protection organisations are opposed. Also, communities are opposed, and they have signed resolutions – and not only one or two, as you have listed, but also: It is the municipality of Vöcklabruck, on the other hand, with an ÖVP mayor – you probably didn't bring it on line, but also Attnang-Puchheim. Timmelkamm has introduced a resolution against Lambach. Regau, also an ÖVP mayor, you didn't get to the stripe either. On the other hand: Schörfling, Seewalchen and Lenzing. – In total, there are 46 286 inhabitants whose mayors signed a resolution against Lambbach. But not only communities, but also large companies have opposed the construction of this power plant because they see it as a threat to the economic viability of the companies. SCA Laakirchen: 600 employees would be at risk there, Steyrermühl Papierfabrik and Verlags-AG, also 600 employees, Lenzing: 3 100 employees. That is to say, a total of 4,000 to 5,000 jobs would be at risk, if this power plant were to be built and the water quality of the tears would become worse in terms of return. But you are not interested in the ÖVP, you have taken a Justament stand in this regard! Nor do you care that this planned amount of construction would allow for alternatives, such as the optimization of existing hydroelectric power plants, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, or increased promotion of wind turbines and fair feed tariffs. In the first operation month, Eberschwang introduced a third of the electricity harvest, the calculated annual harvest. A third in a month! You can imagine what the result looks like after a year of maturity. It is even so far that calculations have been made that in the performance of two such wind power plants as the Eberschwang type – in the low performance that the Lambbach power plant will bring in winter – this number would be sufficient to replace the Lambbach power in winter. As alibiactions, the OKA has approved some pilot projects. – I myself was involved in such a discussion and had to listen to how there was really defended with nails and claws the position of the OKA. Or: More energy advice could be provided – in accordance with the principle of how it is done in America. There they go the reverse way, that of saving electricity, because they know that each power plant is at the expense of the electricity price. There large companies and even private households are stopped to save electricity. Services in the energy sector are also offered, as they can guarantee that a low price of electricity will be maintained for all customers. America is always used by you in many areas as an example. Why don't you do it this time and just go the reverse way? – But probably one is afraid then, because at certain directorial posts there is no longer any need. It seems to me that after the last country elections, the head of state, who has been cut off, already keeps a supply post warm for himself, so that he can find his way out later. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also interesting to see how the money of the electricity generators is partly handled at the OKA. I can give you an example of this: You know that 50 percent of the electricity needed must be consumed at the federal government. Of course, notification services are necessary, which are always made a year in advance. Of course you can't know: How much power will I need? You don't know how winter will be: If he gets cold, he gets warm, if he's rainy, is he snowy? – You don’t know how the hydropower power will look like next year. And, of course, there is also the fact that compromises take place. What, then, do you do with the current you have to take off, but you have it left? – One does not send it back, because then one would get a lower tariff for it, but one pumpes water into storage power plants – whether it is needed there or not – so that the electricity that is ultimately to be paid according to the contract is consumed. This is the way to deal with the money of the electricity consumers and so is how energy is handled. That is why we are acting in a liberal way against this uneconomic and completely unnecessary power plant. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that this motion for a resolution will find a majority here in order to finally set a goal – and not that the operations in Upper Austria are the future for our country and for energy policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15262	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation and then to the vote. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15286	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am also not a friend of the Lambach power plant project to express once mildly, but not from the considerations that the Aubesetters have. I have also been there several times, including Mr Brix. We almost found no Au in this area. It's really hard to take a look at the nature conservation argument. It would be much more true and honest to actually look at the economic side of this power plant. I therefore believe that the first part of the explanatory statement of the urgent request made by the Greens should be largely underlined. However, I have the suspicion that the truth here is bowed down by many sides – again, with caution. The Greens – this impression I have a little bit – try to recoup their electoral settlement together with their still some kind of pre-disposition organization, which is Global 2000. Global 2000 has problems with financing. It is significant that Greenpeace is very quiet in this regard. Probably they are offended to death that they have not come to the idea themselves. On the other hand, I have to say: I understand the head of state Pühringer, who brought in a political calculation. This has something to do with the steps he's supposed to step into, that's quite clear. Pühringer wanted to represent himself as a decisive politician, and that is legitimate. Only: Unfortunately, he has caught God’s project that makes him very difficult. I would have understood the original project. There were even several. The larger projects, I think, have gone up to 70 MW, are also with a considerable consumption of nature, where one could have considered. But this project is within the ÖVP, out of political considerations, already dying years ago – and there is really a small power plant with 2 to 14 MW left. In this regard, I also share the opinion of Mr Kanjak, who really is an energy expert, who believes that the Lambbach project may make an economic sense for the OKA, but from a national point of view it should not be built. – And that’s the real core; we don’t need to talk big around it. It would certainly be possible to do much more with the money that is spent on this – and in my opinion, the figures are not yet fixed if they are suddenly 600 million, I believe that this is not in the final bill – and certainly also in the field of heat and power. Since again my reference to the Greens: This is also the green eye. It is also necessary to accept power-heat-couplings, for example, on the basis of waste burning. That's also a useful thing. They always call Denmark a model country in your request, but they do not mention that the Danes are permanently burning their waste and are of course also useful for energy production. I am, by the way, very grateful for this urgent request from the Greens because it has returned a few ammunition for my hands with my colleague, Aumayr. I'd like my colleague Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann – I think he is an expert – asks Mr Aumayr to explain that a hydropower plant cannot be replaced with biomass power plants. [[Abg. Aumayr: I didn't mean electricity, but energy!]] It has meant that Lambach, a power plant that supplies electricity, can be replaced by four biomass power plants. That'll be a problem! But you could register a patent if you manage to generate electrical energy from a biomass power plant. But perhaps Mr Hofmann will help you, which would be an interesting patent. Ladies and gentlemen. I have known the course of Ager and Traun very well since about 1975, because at that time Lenzing was still shabby, and then we took water samples, and that is to Ebelsberg. So I know these auareas. I therefore believe that it is also, as I said, a naughtiness, when quite serious organizations such as the WWF suddenly make broadcasts, in which it says: "the last free free flow line". – I like to be willing to deal with the whole Ager- and also the Traun-Ufer. Then I'll show you what's really an au. You have to look at that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am still against the power plant Lambach, because it is an economic nonsense. - That's one. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Doppelmüller, look at the clock!]] Mr Khol! I would also like to make my arguments; I will certainly not be slowed down by you. You may be able to do this in your own party, for which you have been "famous" as a clubman so far. You can't make any regulations in this respect, you have to take note of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, in order to re-emphasize this partial treachery of the debate: In my Vienna apartment I got a letter from Global 2000 printed, beautiful! [[the speaker presents a letter before]] And there it says: Dear Mr. Doppelmüller! I'll write you these lines under a lot of time pressure. I'm sitting here in the Au von Lambach. The clinking cold makes my fingers stiff, writing will be the effort! Do they think we're depressing? Send a printed snorr letter that? This is unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen. – If so, then you really have to put the right arguments. That this power plant then, when we need it, namely in winter, does not bring anything, is clear. There, Mr Minister, I think you should make every effort, because I am also clear: In the past, the union was sitting on a very high horse – and now the state companies pay it home to him. Let us take a closer look at the problem: Lower Austria, power plant Dürn Rohr, an insanity project; with the heat one "feeds" the Danube. There are two 350 MW blocks. Minister! Look Once you've reached the driving times of these blocks. Look Take a look at the driving times of the composite block and look at the block of the Lower Austrian energy supply company. That's where you're going to insist on slowing down the bond. It is absolutely absurd for the people to export the electricity in summer – and in winter the union must deliver. Let us perhaps confess to the fact that we give the union of the national societies. Then they should make up for each other, and then perhaps something better will come out. Mrs Madl! I would also like to put this right with the mayors. I am in favour of the fair conduct of this House and of the fact that, even if they are from the ÖVP and from my district, they are not allowed to go into the pan. Mrs. Madl, you're from the neighboring district. I can tell you here: These mayors have written a resolution to support industrial enterprises, because the danger – and this must also be said – is that, if the water quality is not class II, the farms have to retrofit once again. But that is clear – I have to say fairly too. The farms need not do anything about this. I'll show you what water quality II to III means. Come with me to Vöcklabruck to "Maidult". Then go over the bridge with me and look into the Vöckla, where no operation – except for a single dairy – is located. That's where fat fat fish swim inside. That's water quality II to III! You have to stick to the truth! But again: I ask you to reconsider the construction of this power plant in Lambach. I understand Mr Pühringer's desire to achieve something politically. I'm convinced: When he reaches it, he will not do anything about it above and below the tears. I'm perfectly clear. There can be so good reasons: He will guard against further power plant buildings like the devil in front of the consecration water. I'm sorry about the money for this power plant. There are projects in Upper Austria, combined heat and power in industrial plants, where the operation can use the heat, where there is enough electricity to decouple. There's a lot more to be done. I say the following to you: If we were to equip the existing small power plants at the Ager – there are some old plants, in part they are set up – with the latest turbines, with small interventions in the underwater, but where there are almost no interventions in nature, then we will achieve quite surely the same performance that the power plant Lambach would bring. I really ask you to consider this properly again. The Lambach power plant should not be built because of the political desire to achieve anything. Nor should it be prevented by reflecting on something that is not there, like this Au, but it should be considered rationally what one could do with the money – not the money of the OKA, but it is the money of the Upper Austrians – more reasonable and also linked to the creation of more jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15357	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. It has been put in motion, so we shall proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on the creation of an independent energy coordination authority. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to speak in favour of a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall also vote on the request of Mr. Anschober and Mr. Comrade concerning the examination of the Lambach power plant in accordance with § 4 para. ==References== Nationalization law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this request for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member on the establishment of the legal framework for the forced use of wind energy in Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this motion in favour of a sign. – This is the minority and is rejected. We shall vote on another motion for a resolution on binding introduction of Least Coast planning in the electricity sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. The next request by Mr Anschober concerns construction stop and rethinking at the Lambach hydroelectric power plant. Here too, I should like to ask you to rise from the seats in case of consent. – The request does not find the majority. He's rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The request does not find the majority, is therefore rejected. The next proposal, also tabled by Mr Anschober, concerns minimum standards of democracy in the organisation of the state administration. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Aumayr on the postponement of construction work on the Lambach power plant project and the implementation of an environmental impact assessment. I should also like to ask you, in case of consent, to rise from the seats. – The request does not find the majority. He is therefore rejected. We have therefore voted in favour of all the amendments on this point. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15501	We continue the debate on the 1994 art report. I call Mrs Heide Schmidt. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15522	Mr President. I should like to ask whether the Minister intends to follow the debate on the art report. I do not want to interrupt for this reason, I am quite beginning, but I would just like to make it clear whether Mr Schholten is present. I don't see him yet. [[Call the SPÖ: He's already here!]] How do you have your information? [[Federal Minister Dr. One takes place at the government bank.]] That's what I call solidarity. I agree that it does not make me particularly happy to resume the debate on the art report at half past two o'clock in the night. I will therefore confine myself to a few headlines, especially because it is not only a question of joy, but also a question of sense, and I do not see much meaning in it either. I must say, however, that I am very sorry if it was really the case that Mr Scholten was no longer coming because he had done something that I would not have expected him to do, namely to get rid of parliamentary use, in particular of the use that a member of the government would normally have to speak when the speeches were made from all political groups. I am also saying this – not because I am, but even so – because the chairman of the committee had not even given a speech before. In other words, if the Minister does mention himself before – and after the emergency does not even come back – this would be a special violation of parliamentary uses. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would now like to say something that I would like to say and underline in every debate on cultural policy, namely the fact that our cultural budget has around four-fifths of fixed commitments. Today, when we discuss this art report, we are talking about the use of 1.1 billion schilling; that is a fifth of the cultural budget. 3 billion schillings are fixed for the Bundestheaterverband, 1 billion schillings are fixed for the museums, 1 billion schillings are available for free. And at this free time, it also looks like these funds are mainly going to major theatres or festivals. If I have correctly combined it, 85 million schillings will remain used for cultural initiatives and the free scene. This is really a wrong orientation of cultural means. I therefore think that this is also a false cultural policy, because the means are also an expression of cultural policy. I'm not gonna stop mounting this until nothing changes. Because this is the case, I would also like to speak on a point I have already mentioned in committee... – I am very pleased, Minister, that you have still found it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten takes place at the government bank.]] I am now telling you something you have already heard in the committee, but I am saying it again because I want it to be contained in the Minutes and because I would like to call on you to make an amendment in this context before this House. There is an agreement between the city of Vienna and the federal government from 1986, in which the federal government undertakes to support the private theatre in Vienna. This includes the Josefstadt, the Theater der Jugend und und. This also included the Raimundtheater. In principle, I think this is a very good agreement, only: The Raimundtheater is no longer a private theatre, but it is now one of the United Stages in Vienna. This belongs to the Wiener Holding, which is therefore the city of Vienna. I really don't understand that this tight cultural budget says and writes 27 million schillings continue to go to the Raimundtheater. That's something I have to say: We could use the money much better, otherwise it would be much more important. Please accept my request. She goes there, not to say, that has grown somehow historically and then they have chosen some kind of construction so that you still have to pay it, but really look at it. First of all, I doubt that there is a real commitment to this, precisely because of this new construction, but if that is the case, then we must continue to negotiate that this will change. The fact is that the Raimundtheater is no longer a private theatre, but is controlled by the city of Vienna, and I have no desire at all to pay 27 million schillings for this – for a stage that would not necessarily deserve a focus on our cultural objectives. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I say this because the use of money for the free scene and for cultural initiatives would be much more important. If I'm talking about money, I'd like to make another comment: It is also very often spoken of, but it is not being done, and not only is it not being done, but it does not go beyond this point, and I think that is a little too little. That is why I am now making another move. When it comes to the distribution of funds, it would be better, I think, to consult experts and to take this decision away from the civil service level. This is not a mistrust of officials, but I believe that it would be very useful, particularly in the field of cultural policy, to use other instruments which also open up other ways of budgeting. I mean, very concretely, the foundation. First of all, there are models for this foundation – one should not deal with the invention of the wheel – and this foundation has several other advantages. On the one hand: The Federal Government and the Länder should set up foundations in which public funds are paid. However, it should also – and this is very important to me – be brought to private sponsors to invest in the cultural scene as well. [[Discussions in the banks of the Freeman.]] It would be nice if you could keep your conversations a little quieter or at least further away, where you normally have your place, Mr Haigermoser! It is also one of the parliamentary uses that if you sit in the front, you do not disturb the others in this form. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't teach us!]] That you're bothering with intermediate calls, I'm used to it anyway. This distribution of foundations would make sense that it would not be necessary to spend the money for the federal government during the financial year, but that the foundations would be able to operate in accordance with their discretion and set themselves their own budget years. This means that one could also plan ahead and extend the budget period. And this is even more important in the cultural scene than in other areas where we also think about extending the budget period. In others This is also important, but in the cultural scene it is as important as a bite of bread, and through such a foundation one could make it possible. In addition, when I wanted to talk about it, I was interrupted, the foundations could also manage funds raised by private sponsoring. We have made a request to the Financial Committee both in the past legislative period – but it has not been negotiated anymore – and in this legislative period we have introduced a request to enable the Income Tax Act to be amended in such a way that it is no longer only the commercial effect when sponsoring it, but that it is not a matter of someone's being unaware and that he should also be able to claim that he is investing in the culture. More detailed rules should be laid down in this respect. I therefore call on you to put this request in committee as soon as possible. I also call on you to set up a subcommittee on this financial committee, in which Members of the Committee on Culture can also participate and consult. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to explain another advantage of this foundation: One could decouple the management of the political leaders by making calls and by selecting those who apply for the intention of such a foundation with a concept for the position. This would have the incredible advantage of knowing what you are thinking of – and not being given a leading position politically, because in the latter case you must be lucky if the person has at all a term of theater or of a book. We know this from politicians – now I look in this direction – that there are some who even boast of having not read more than a book in their lives. [[the speaker looks into the ranks of the ÖVP]] Now it must be imagined that someone who is bragging about it might even have been able to become a cultural councillor! You never know that before! Therefore: With a foundation, as I have described it, one could avoid such things, one knew what one wished to do would have a longer period of investment and so on. In addition, there should be specialist advisory committees which have their own budget to which the intentionant has no access. – In this way we would have laid several tracks for a different kind of cultural policy! This is the request I would like to give you – you can also read it: In this way, perhaps we could really get into a more interesting and serious discussion, so that we really go a little further in this area and not always say: That's a bad model, what it's got to do with. I will not get tired in this context, although he does not directly refer to the art report, but at least indirectly, to the Bundestheaterverband, therefore, because there are the funds that go down and then cannot appear in the art report. That is why I urge you to finally think about converting this Bundestheater Association into a GesmbH in order to free money in this way. For I am firmly convinced that the current nature of the economy is not efficient and therefore does not serve the culture itself, but has already become a good part of it for its own purpose. By the way, if we are particularly concerned with new schemes, I would also like to refer to a new regulation which we have not sought, but which we will probably decide in the next few weeks, or whenever: I mean the new regulation on works contracts. This instrumentarium is also important for the cultural scene like a bite of bread. The free cultural scene and cultural initiatives, which I am concerned with, cannot exist at all without works contracts. I have a completely different view on contracts of work than she has articulated Mr Petrovic in the Committee on Culture. I appreciate the solution that was originally in the conversation that we say: Social security, yes, if one already has a – voluntary – insurance somewhere, then no. I would have thought this solution was reasonable, because I am firmly convinced that it must also be in the interests of a cultural artist to have an insurance somewhere. We cannot believe that it is in their interest never to have an insurance and then one day when it comes to possibly having to be supplied by the general public. This is certainly not the self-understanding of the cultural creators. That is why I think it is unnecessary to want to protect them by means of any social security. – I would like to protect them from the burden of multiple insurance, then if this becomes necessary, then the whole scene will really go down the stream. I fear this in view of the current situation, because now the original regulation I have just mentioned, which we support, has been dropped and said: In the case of works contracts, there should be no involvement in social security unless it is an incorrect contract of work. To this end, I must say: This does sound very nice, but an incorrect contract of work is not likely to exist at all. A "unfounded contract of work" has been due to be a service contract. That's why I'm asking: What a damocles sword – I am saying now for the cultural scene, but this also applies to everyone else – is now again being hanged up that one has to be dependent again on any Judicature that cannot be estimated, and is dependent on having a good relationship with any financial official or not whether he comes more often or not and more. That can't be the sense of legal certainty you're supposed to strive for! Next point: Transparency. – The lack of transparency of the art report has been revitalized for years. We made a request last year in which we asked that a list be attached to the art report, which shows who was adopted and who was rejected. This request was not then negotiated. Now I confess that he did not believe at all that he was really reasonable. I have been convinced by the arguments of the Minister and his officials who say that it would actually be more of discrimination if an artist, who is often rejected, was on any list each time. This cannot be pleasant to the artist himself. And I don't know if it makes sense when it's anonymized. We have, therefore, now considered another system that should benefit the cultural maker and not discriminate against him. We will then make a corresponding request: I do not want to introduce it now, because I do not want to vote on it, but rather to negotiate it in committee. We therefore make him an independent request. The aim of this proposal is to add a list to the art report, namely: A three-category system for rejected applications is to be introduced, for example: (a) the financial resources of the department were already exhausted at the time of the application; (b) the department is not responsible; (c) the application was rejected for quality reasons. Such a list could be compared to all requests for support. So we have an overview of what is at all there in terms of funding needs, what is being rejected and for what structural reasons it has been rejected. I believe that such a solution is also the constant argument: "We need more transparency!" to be able to satisfy. I have one point to mention: Minister! I believe that you measure the art mediation to be of too little importance. You're responsible. They're distributing the money. [[Interlocutory call from Federal Minister Dr. Scholten.]] I'm glad you're right about that. I assume that you will draw the consequence of this and work to ensure that more resources will be made available in this area in the future. If I look at this, I notice that, for example, the Austrian cultural service receives 27.7 million schilling. Previously I spoke of the Raimundtheater; it also receives 27 million. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: The cultural service does not concern my ministry, but the Ministry of Education!]] This does not change the fact that the cultural service is an instrument of cultural communication. [[Further call from Federal Minister Dr. Scholten.]] That is true, but you must admit that this relationship is not in the lot and that you bear the responsibility for strengthening the instruments that make an important contribution to a climate in this country in which art is made possible at all. That's what it's all about! We all know what we're talking about, I don't want to get involved anymore. I do not have the documents with me, which deal with the cultural understanding of the liberals, because I really have the time to do so at two o'clock. For example, this cultural service could make an important contribution to the development of programmes for the discussion of contemporary art and current trends of youth culture and all of this. I therefore believe that, above all, the mediation of art should also be given a higher priority in your field. In this sense, I ask you to put your headnick into action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15644	The next Mrs. Dr. Petrovic will be speaking. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15666	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the advanced hour, I would like to say a few words about the art report. Dealing with artists, with cultural artists, is always a reflection of how tolerant or how repressive a society is overall. In this context, I would like to remind you of the transactions in Nigeria, Ken Saro Wiwa, who was murdered for his courageous attitude and for his actions against purely commercial interests and against political arbitrariness. Just a few days after the seventh anniversary of Fatwa, that is, the seventh anniversary of the life threat to the writer Salman Rushdie, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these processes should always remind us of the importance of promoting and actively supporting a climate of openness to art and culture. There is no doubt that in Austria we are far away from the fact that artists, artists and artists are so threatened with life and health. Nevertheless, some ignorance has been felt in recent years. There was and is always a climate of cultural stormy, which is primarily triggered by the Freedom Party. However, it is also evident to the authorities that the spirit and the ideals of freedom of art and culture are not being satisfied. I would like to tell you, despite the advanced hour, especially since the Minister of Finance is present, a small anecdotes tell you how an Austrian writer does not have an excessive income, but is really very moderate about the rounds. In the case of accounting books for approximately 30 000 S per year, the Financial Office has informed it that this is not necessary for a writer: He's writing, he doesn't need to read. – This writer then came up with a good idea and filed a different bill for an item of equipment for his office, namely for a carpet, about the same height: And this one is recognized by him. – I think this little anecdode shows that there is still much that could be improved in relation to the attitude towards artists and cultural creators. This also refers to actions of the financial sector. On several occasions, artists and cultural professionals are required income tax on subsidies they have received from the competent authorities in the ministries, although the financial offices should actually know that these subsidies are tax-free. – This shows the importance of artists, and I believe that one should change this if Austria is really interested in being the cultural nation that we like to present ourselves internationally. There would also be much to improve in the cultural field in the narrower sense. If, for example, the IG authors have been demanding librarians for 25 years, it is worth noting that they are granted at the federal level, but it is really a shame that they are not granted in the countries. I believe that we should, together, insist that it be granted in the countries and that it is not taken for granted that people produce works and are ultimately praised for the benefits of these works. Or, for example, think of the call murder campaigns that there are again and again, for example, in connection with H.C. Artmann. I think it is even more important and necessary that not only the cultural speakers raise their voices, but also that this House, as a whole, refrains from taking note of such abuses, in this case of a political group, namely the liberals, without criticism. The ignorance and attitude towards art and culture in this country can also be seen – and this is what the ministry is about in the narrower sense – that the art report was discussed in the newspapers already in November, but this house has only been visited in January. I believe that such small things could really be avoided if we all strive and the climate could be clearly improved. I have already said a lot in committee that I will not repeat myself. Of course, we should make a greater amount of transparency. Federal Minister! At least it should be possible for the advisory protocols discussed in the Committee to be delivered at least to the representatives of the artists' interests, such as the IG authors and other stakeholders' representatives, in order to allow for a review of what the Advisory Board has recommended and in which cases the Ministry has deviated. I believe that this would be a minimum of transparency if, for some reason, these protocols were not fully published. On the question of employment contracts: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I am still of the opinion that the criterion that, if you are already socially insured, you no longer need to be insured in a contract of work is a false one. For either a work contract is such, that is, the owner of the contract fulfils it by himself, then of course this is not a classic case for social security. Then you have to establish your own insurance obligation. Or it is ultimately a service contract – and then there is already the insurance obligation. In case of introduction of the criterion: Only then, if someone has not yet been insured, do I fear very strongly that we will ultimately take out those who do not have insurance at all, because then every employer, including in the arts and culture sector, would, of course, rather employ someone in the context of a work contract that already has some kind of insurance, because that person then simply comes cheaper and simply cheaper. I believe that the concern we all have that no one is completely without insurance could not be realized. This is certainly a difficult question, and we must also try to keep excessive costs away from the organizations within the framework of art and culture. Nevertheless, I believe that we must look forward to a more appropriate definition criterion. In other words, we must try to ensure at least a minimum insurance, but we must not conjure up the danger that, after all, only those who already have at least a little something somewhere else will be employed. In this sense, I would like to end my remarks and appeal to this House in the light of the hour ahead, and I would like to appeal to this House for real vehementness against the yet perceptible signs of a repressing of the freedom of art and culture. The democratic forces in this country must resist it in all its form and with all its power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15741	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not requested. We therefore come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-3 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this art report to give a sign of approval. – The art report has been taken note of by a majority. 5. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1 of the supplements): Animal transport law – TGLu (44 of the supplements) 6. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (17 of the supplements): Protocol amending Article 50 lit. (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 26 March. October 1990 (45 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15793	This brings us to points 5 and 6 of the agenda: These are the reports of the Transport Committee on the Government Template: Animal transport law Air (44 of the supplements) and on the government template: Protocol amending Article 50 lit. (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 26 March. ==References====External links== On the fifth point, Mr Dietachmayr said that he was referring to the sixth point. Please, Mr Dietachmayr.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15814	Mr President. High house! I bring the report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (1 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Transport of Animals in Air Transport (TGLu). The objective of the present draft law is to protect the animals from risks that may arise in the transport of aircraft. At its meeting on 7 October, the Transport Committee adopted the Government's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of At the time of the vote, the draft law took account of amendments tabled by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni and Mr Mag. Helmut Kukackaein was accepted. A amendment tabled by Dr Stefan Salzlzu § 20 did not find the majority of the committee. As a result of its deliberations, the Transport Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation annexed to the written committee report. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15857	Thanks a lot. Mr Sigl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15875	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will report back to the Committee on Transport on the Government template (17 of the supplements): Protocol amending Article 50 lit. (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 26 March. October 1990. At its meeting on 7 October the Transport Committee adopted this Protocol. On 1 February 1996, the Council decided unanimously to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of the present State Treaty. As a result of its deliberations, the Transport Committee therefore proposes that the National Council: 1. The conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending Article 50 lit.a of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 26 March. The Committee approved the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. 2. The authentic texts of the Protocol in Russian and Spanish are in accordance with the nature. 49 para.2 B-VG by making them available to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15910	Thank you for the introduction to the deliberations. Speaking time: a maximum of three speakers, a 20 minutes, the remaining a maximum of 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e15941	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In line with the wishes expressed by Mr Schwarzenberger, I shall speak shortly. I believe that you all - in the Committee, indeed, across all political groups - have recognised that Austria has a pioneering role to play in animal transport by means of this law. Austria is already a contracting partner of the European Convention on the Protection of Animals in International Transport. Furthermore, other regulations, such as the Live Animals Regulations created by the IATA, the International Air Transport Association, are not binding legislation. It is therefore certainly necessary to make these legal provisions now because, in the event of infringement, no sanctions would have been possible. Finally, there is also an EU directive which we essentially adopt with this animal transport law. I believe that with this animal transport law air we create extremely sensible and very animal-friendly legislation. For example, transport capacity is restricted, it is also required that experienced, trained companions monitor transport, that a path as gentle as possible be chosen, and that transport containers be adapted to, inter alia, the needs of the respective animals. This means that useful safeguards and strict penalties complement this law. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of my brief remarks, I can make an amendment by Mr Parnigoni, Mr Mag. Bring in Kukacka and comrades. [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment is a correction in terms of criminal provisions. I should like to invite all of you to follow up your commitments in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16006	The request referred to just now is under negotiation. Next speaker: Deputies Kukacka.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16030	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Today's decision is a second step to effectively eliminate abuses that exist in the transport of animals. This is a second step: That's what I'm saying, because there was a first one about half a year ago. ==References== In May of the previous year, we passed the Animal Transport Act Street and with it also made a significant contribution to the future elimination of problems which have occurred in this area. As with the transport of animals on the road, there is also air transport: Austria has taken on a pioneering role in this area, it is the first country in the European Union, indeed across Europe, which has legally transposed the Transport Directive. Now there is still a law that regulates the transport of animals on the railway. Then: The Railway Transport Act does not even provide for the criteria which have been implemented in the air during the transport of animals on the road or in the transport of animals. We therefore believe that there is also a need for action in relation to animal transport on the railway. Animals can suffer from poor transport conditions everywhere, not only in their transport on the road, not only in luf transport, but also in rail transport. That is why we should tackle this problem quickly. Otherwise, of course, we agree with this draft law today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16068	Next speaker: Deputies Rosenstingl.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16090	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The animal transport law air is extremely important for animal protection. Federal Minister! It must be clear to us, however, that this is not yet the great throw that we expect from a animal welfare law. It is only a first step that needs to be taken. The decisive manko in this law are the countless rubber paragraphs and the fact that this law can hardly be enforced abroad, but the transports of course take place in many cases from there. Many paragraphs contain formulations such as the expressions "animally" or "suitable manner". The practice will show that these wordings will lead to difficulties in interpreting. In § 5, for example, "suitable companions" are spoken of. There is also a lack of a specific definition. There are indications, for example, that these companions must be trained and experienced. The explanations again contain a reference to the EU directives. Federal Minister! If you look at these EU directives, it will be possible to see that there is no explanation whatsoever of what is meant by "trained" or "experienced". It must also be taken into account that this law should also be applied to transit. We have already found in the committee – you have agreed to me there – that this can hardly mean overflighting, because it cannot be checked. The practice will show that checks will be difficult at the port of call and there will be no consequences for non-legislative transport. It will be difficult at all to carry out inspections. Federal Minister! They have said that the criticism expressed in the review has been taken into account and has been found in the law. It's not like that. This criticism has not been incorporated into the law at all so far, so there will have to be more novels. It is important, however, that this law be passed, which is why we shall also vote in favour of the liberals. However, improvements still need to be made.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16130	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16151	Mr President. Federal Minister for Transport and Finance! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to take a short look at the hour ahead and refer only to the matter itself, although, of course, the matter of animal transport in its entirety would give rise to a lot of discussion. The animal transport law air is one of three legislative instruments relating to the transport of animals. They all know that about half a year ago, there were a number of suspensions related to the transport of animals on the road. There have been things that would certainly have been avoidable, there would have been a better coordination between the Austrian National Council and the authorities in Brussels. I'm counting this on the initial difficulties there. I do not hope that these difficulties will continue if we turn to the third part. In contrast, the current air transport system has a different background. It is based largely on voluntary arrangements already practised under the IATA Agreement. It is practically a matter of including this non-binding regulation into a national legislative matter. It was, as it were, legally legitimated. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to expressly note that, as a result of this law, Austrian airlines have taken on an important role in the field of air transport, for many years this airline has demonstrated a high standard of how to do it with air transport. Other airlines have a lot to offer, and I do not want to thank the Austrian airlines for this. The third stage – in order to enable a comprehensive implementation of all three sub-areas – will be the area of rail transport. I am afraid that the transport of animals on the train will not go through the stage quite as badly and so freely. There is an EU directive ahead, which must be implemented accordingly. I suggest that in the rail transport sector a similar procedure be chosen as now in the air transport sector, namely that specialised companies bring in their experience and, so to speak, to date voluntary arrangements will also be included in the legislative process. Otherwise, I would just like to say that our group would like to vote in favour of this motion. I hope that there will also be a similar broad consensus in rail transport. Thank you. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] ..
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16194	Mrs Petrovic is speaking. Mr Fischler seems to have a problem with how an airline can react.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16218	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! The animal transport law-air is a consistent continuation of the rules in the field of animal transport. Although there are a number of small criticisms that the animal welfare organisations have to raise, in particular as regards the definition of the terms, the greens of this scheme will, of course, agree. However, Mr Federal Minister, I should like to stress very strongly that, I believe you know, there are still major shortcomings in the implementation of the animal transport law street. That is why I fear that a similar lax monitoring could occur in the field of air transport. Media reports show that, for example, animals from Austria are transported to Lebanon in the case of particularly cruel animal transports. That's not supposed to be in itself. However, this is confirmed by the authorities in Lebanon, and the media reports also show that cattle are also delivered from Austria. I believe that such media reports should be carried out and checked which entrepreneurs are so threatening and, above all, in the case of the animals, such tortures in the law. Federal Minister! They know about the accusations that there are always animal protectionists. I myself was there on various occasions where we were able to convince ourselves that completely strained, partially injured and obviously already much longer than the law allows for carrying animals to be found in trucks. I only mention a few cases – you know them –: St. Michael, cases from Salzburg, cases from Arnoldstein. These are really just pins in the hay. These cases become known only when animal protectionists happen to be on the road to such a transport. The transports that are illegal and which are not discovered by anyone are certainly much, much more numerous. That is why I would like to call on you to implement Austrian law now, despite the soon to come into force EU regulation - the poor EU rule - because I believe that the experience gained from implementing this law could be an important contribution to a new regulation in the area of the European Union. If we look at parliamentary questions concerning the number of cases in the first months following the entry into force of the Animal Transport Act, we can see that there were no objections at all in four federal states. All in all, there were only 10 complaints. I believe that you share my opinion that the number of violations is much, much, much higher and therefore that appropriate improvements in the implementation of the law, especially at national level, but also as regards the control from the federal side, would be urgently required. Federal Minister! I'm looking for you: Do not allow the animal transport law to be carried out better and do not allow the animal transport law air now to be decided that it will be carried out in a similar manner as was the case with the provisions on animal transport on the road so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16266	The next speaker is Mr Wallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16288	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I too will take a short look. . I would like to point out that the value of a society can certainly also be seen in the way it deals with, among other things, animals, including transport. As opinion polls tell us that 85 percent of the population of animal welfare is a concern, I believe that – and this has rightly been mentioned several times today – we Austrians have a pioneering role in the field of animal transport. Our group will also vote in favour of the animal transport law air today, in accordance with the animal transport law. This will certainly also have to be followed by legislation on animal transport on the railway and on the water. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing I would like to highlight: Animal transport in the air certainly differs considerably from the capacity of animal transport in other areas. In 1994 there were 100 animals transported by aircraft. Among other things, they are more exotic animals than farm animals, which later are intended for human consumption. Short: The repertoire ranges from reptile to beehives. But this legal measure, ladies and gentlemen, certainly focuses on the protection of animals and, above all, on the safety of aviation. Allow me to stay a little short while protecting the animals. I think it is important that the animals are kept in such a way that they are not damaged during the entire transport, i.e. also at port of call, and then, if they are at the destination airport, that they are treated properly, that they are provided, that they are fed and that they are not hurt. This is very important, and that is guaranteed by this law. Finally, I can say that this law also contains essential provisions ensuring that our country is protected from any risk of disease. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16330	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16351	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years now, this House has been dealing with the problem of animal transport, and we, in particular, have set up initiatives in this area and from the outset have demanded that, in addition to the road sector, the areas of rail, water and also air must be regulated. We have also pointed out that this would have to be done before EU accession and that we should then include these legislative instruments in the EU negotiations. As this has not been done, in the opinion of many experts, we will have to say goodbye to our far better animal transport regulations. We are likely to have to make adjustments in 1997 and possibly only maintain stricter provisions in Austria. This is also the opinion of the President of the German Animal Protection Association, Wolfgang Apel, who represented him at the Animal Protection Congress. He also said, as a representative of the largest European animal welfare organisation, that the EU was seeking full harmonisation in animal transport and that it was a mogel pack when it was assured the Austrians before accession to the EU that they could maintain the animal transport law in this form. [[Call for the call.]] "Mogelpacking" he said. – In this area, as in many other areas, they have attracted Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. In reality, Austria will not be able to maintain these exemplary provisions on its own, because in the EU there are mainly economic considerations and less animal protection aspects; they have a more subordinate role there. Even if the Federal Minister for Climate Change has announced climate change at the opening of this animal welfare convention, we will oppose the EU, we may not make any adjustments if the EU wants to do so, I do not believe it in this case. Too much was promised before the EU vote and before the elections, but very little of it was really held. Ladies and gentlemen! I would, of course, be pleased if we could actually maintain these provisions, but reality probably looks different. The law we are going to adopt here today, and which we are happy to give our approval, has several shortcomings. In Austria, however, it regulates a rather unproblematic area, namely that of air transport, and there are only a few animals affected: single tournament horses, the other bees, but not bee sticks, as my previous speaker has said, but these are artificial bee queens. Nevertheless, massive changes have been requested in the Committee, mostly in addition to animal welfare. For example, when transporting pregnant animals, no restrictions on pregnancy were decided. The rules on transport routes and ports of call have also been formulated very diffusively. The biggest problem that has arisen, especially from a professional point of view, was that one wanted to remove the passus regarding cleaning and disinfection of the transport containers without replacement. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As can be read in every literature and as each expert will confirm, the professional cleaning and disinfection of the transport containers is one of the most important criteria in order to prevent the introduction of animal diseases. In Austria, we have already experienced the consequences of animal diseases: with enormous economic damage, with untold suffering for the animals themselves and possibly also with health damage to the human being. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the passus regarding the proper cleaning and disinfection in the government template has been preserved on the insistence of us liberals. Unfortunately, God has disappeared from the criminal provisions, and I am therefore submitting an amendment in this regard so that this important passage can also be taken into account in the criminal provisions. [[Quoted print version removed]] In my opinion, further, the fines for administrative infringements should be made available with the aim of providing the facilities actually used for the animals affected by transport which take over and care of the animals affected by transport. I should also like to make an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, animal transport plays a rather subordinate role in air transport. Transport will play an important role in the field of shipping and, above all, in the area of rail transport. There's an awful suffering every day. Thousands of animals are also transported on the railway and on the water every year in and through Austria. Federal Minister! I therefore ask you to: Policy As soon as possible, you will have these animal transport areas! We liberals will be happy to be there, we will be happy to help. Don't be sloppy, Mr. Federal Minister! The animals will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16488	The two requests put forward by Mr Salzl are for negotiation and for the vote. No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We shall proceed to the votes which will be carried out separately between the Committee's proposals. I ask you to take the seats. First of all, however, we are voting on the draft animal transport law air and title and entry into 44 of the supplements. That is what Mrs Parnigoni, Mag. Kukacka and comrades submitted an amendment. Mr Salzl and Mr Comrades have also tabled amendments. First of all, it is agreed on the parts concerned by the amendments and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Dr. Salzl submitted an amendment concerning § 19 (1) Z 2. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an indication of this. - That's not the majority. That is rejected. In addition, MEPs have Parnigoni, Mag. Kukacka and comrades submitted an amendment concerning § 19 (1) Z 2. I should also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign in this regard. This request was adopted by a majority. Member of Parliament Dr. Salzl has tabled an amendment concerning § 20 and heading. I would also ask for an appropriate sign in the case of approval. – This is not the required majority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on § 20 and the title as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with § 20 as part of the Committee's report to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – This is decided by a majority. So the second reading is over, and we are now coming to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their third-reading approval to the draft law for a sign. I note that the draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending Article 50 lit. (a) the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 26 March. The Committee approved the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give this approval to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously decided. Thank you many times. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Committee on Transport, within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 B-VG to decide that the authentic texts of the Protocol in Russian and Spanish must be made known in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs for public consultation. I can also ask for a sign in the case of approval. I note that this was unanimously approved by the National Council. This is what we have done with Agenda items 5 and 6. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (8): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the use of two parts of the Slovenian State territory in the area of the ski area "Threelandereck" (35 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16602	We're coming to the 7th. Agenda item: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the use of two parts of the Slovenian State territory in the area of the ski area "Three-country corner" (35 of the supplements). Mrs Jäger has taken over the report. It will initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16620	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall bring the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (8 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the use of two parts of the Slovenian state area in the area of the ski area "Threelandereck". The present agreement aims to establish a cross-border ski resort on Austrian and Slovenian territory, as well as the necessary infrastructure, as well as permission to use this ski area by Austrian and Slovenian citizens as well as third-country nationals who are not subject to the obligation of sight in the Republic of Austria or in the Republic of Slovenia. At its meeting on 31 December, the Foreign Policy Committee held the present State Treaty. Negotiating in January 1996. At the time of the vote, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of this State Treaty. In the present case, the Foreign Policy Committee shall keep the adoption of a special federal law in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 2 B-VG for the fulfilment of the State Treaty. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the use of two parts of the Slovenian state area in the area of the ski area "Three Country corner" (8 of the supplements) is hereby approved. Mr President. In the event that word reports are available, I would like to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16663	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement. There are words available. The decision of the National Council is: a maximum of 2 speakers per group, a maximum of 10 and a maximum of 5 minutes. First word message: Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16693	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This agreement, which is unanimously recommended for adoption, shows, on the one hand, the ever-increasing relationship between Slovenia and Carinthia, but it also shows that it is important and necessary to set an economic impetus in the Arnoldstein border region with this agreement. You may remember our discussions here in connection with the BBU. Due to the lost jobs in Arnoldstein, it is urgently necessary to set new economic impulses here. An important impulse would be tourism. That is why this agreement, with which it is in future for skiers between 15. ==References== It will be possible to cross the border in the "three-country corner" without exceeding the usual formalities, a very important decision. I assume that this agreement will be adopted. However, I would also like to ask you, in this context, to support a second matter, in a matter which also concerns the "Three-country corner". As you will probably know, the three countries of Carinthia, Julian Veneto and Slovenia have applied for the 2006 Olympic Games. They have already applied for 2002, but this application has failed to meet the usual conditions. It is now possible because other directives have been in force since 1991. The idea of organizing an Olympic cross-border is actually a great Olympic and a great European idea. I believe that the gap between the three major European cultures, the Germanic, the Romanic and the Slavonic, Olympic Games, is an idea that needs our support. She's worth it, too. In particular, it should be noted that these Olympic Games have an impact on the infrastructure of these three countries and would therefore be environmentally friendly and cost-effective Olympic Games. As a Carinthian, I would ask you to give your support, not only to the agreement, but also to this idea and this great objective.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16733	The next Carinthian to speak is Mr Leikam. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16755	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker mentioned the importance of this item on the agenda, which was only called at dawn. I can also take a very, very short look. The ski area "Treialändereck" is a very popular ski area for domestic and foreign guests, it is mainly visited by many Slovenian and Italian skiers. The problem that existed there is the fact that in the area of the mountain station the state border between Slovenia, Italy and Austria runs. There have always been border violations. But the athletes also want to practice sports cross-border, and this has, as already mentioned, repeatedly led to problems. It is surprising that it took almost 18 years for an agreement to be reached between Austria – in this case between Carinthia and Slovenia. ==References== In September of last year there has been a corresponding international agreement, and it can be attributed to the tenacity of the Carinthian negotiators that this agreement has come about. It is now necessary to ratify it by the Austrian National Council. This is to be done today with this decision at this meeting, and I should also like to ask you to agree to this ratification and thus to raise the attractiveness of the "Three-lander corner" ski area. I would also like to join with what my previous speaker said: Of course, we also want the support of the Republic of Austria for our Olympic application. I have listened very carefully and have found that the Tyroleans and the Salzburgians and also the Steirers have also taken an active part, and I see this as an approval for the Carinthian application for the Olympic Games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16797	The next speaker is Mr Reichhold. - I give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16818	High house! The main arguments for the approval of this agreement have really been put forward by my previous speakers. As a result of this agreement, there will certainly be an improvement in the ski industry in the "Three-land corner" and it may also be the foundation for an economic recovery in this region, if the well-known ski area Kranjska Gora in Slovenia can also be connected. That's a big goal. Whether it's feasible, you'll see, because many infrastructure improvements would be necessary in order to be able to handle the Olympic Games attractively enough. I too may ask for approval. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will, of course, vote in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16849	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. We shall vote on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 8 of the Supplements. I would ask all those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I adopt unanimous decision-making. 8. Point First reading of motion 29/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16894	This is the next item on the agenda: First reading of motion 29/A by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades concerning a federal law amending the law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Reasonable time scheme: A maximum of two speakers per group, a speaker 15 minutes, a speaker 15 minutes or a speaker 15 minutes, a 10 minutes. We are going into the debate. First word message: Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The course of today has shown that a reform of the Rules of Procedure is very good for this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16954	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. He's got the floor. The speaking time is also not longer than 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e16981	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, a reform of the Rules of Procedure would have to assume that it does not serve parliamentarism or opposition if the meetings were too long to take place without the public being excluded and that what Parliament wants to convey could not be communicated to anyone. An orderly agenda and an orderly speaking time are, therefore, not something that is damaging to the opposition, but something that also benefits the opposition – because it benefits Parliament as a whole and increases Parliament itself. That is why I believe that all the proposals relating to the reduction of speaking time and to the better order of the meetings will help Parliament as a whole and thus also the opposition. Secondly, We also urgently need provisions for the EU's main committee. 30 to 40 percent of our previous activities are now over the EU. In a few years, it may be half. We must therefore provide the same staff, time and organisation for co-determination in EU matters, which we have planned in this area for plenary and committees.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17011	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17033	High house! All of this and much more will have to be dealt with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I am looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17060	The next speaker is Mr Wabl, but he is not present. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why I agree with Mr Magnice as the next speaker. Stadler the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17090	Mr President. High house! The gladness with which the Rules of Procedure debate is obviously started only indicates that it is obvious that the other political groups have already agreed to narrow down the rights of the opposition, as we could read in the daily newspaper "The Press", with a peculiar background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] The Liberals like to shut up, please! I'm talking about the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17118	Mr Stadler! There's no one here to shut up. Such a word must not go from one speaker to the other!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17139	Mr President. I am talking about the opposition and not about that government attachment that wants to enter the government by being permanently cut down with the support of the Liberal Forum on Opposition Rights – for example, what the convocation of the special sessions is about, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He doesn't have any manners!]] I think it unbearable for an opposition group to want to narrow the rights of the other opposition groups, ladies and gentlemen, just because it does not come to the train itself, just because it itself recently acted on the seat of another opposition group in the Council of Europe against this opposition group and then complained that it was no longer allowed to take up the seat of this opposition group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] She is now ready to narrow the rights of this opposition group, which, as I say, is the only opposition group in this House, by contributing to it, as in the daily newspaper "Die Presse" of 27. To read Feber is that, in the future, the convocation of special meetings can be made more difficult, ladies and gentlemen, of meetings that have brought together and especially results such as yesterday's meeting of this House, at which... Haven't you read your own request before you have decided it? [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum as well as at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thanks to the efforts of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the government was finally forced to take a small step in the right direction in the area of privilege reduction, which I say would never have been done if the liberals had not forced him to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All the other special sessions, ladies and gentlemen, have also produced results which are, at least, entirely in the sense of the citizens' intentions. That is why we liberties do not allow the rules of procedure to be applied to the opposition. Even though Greens and Liberals are committed to making themselves popular with the Socialists in particular: We will not be prepared under any circumstances for a reduction in the essential rights of the House, especially on the rights of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is unfortunately represented by a liberal as chairman! You have to break this on your tongue: Mr Frischenschlager has been the chairman of this subcommittee, which should have prepared the Rules of Procedure. And the chairman of this subcommittee goes here and says he is already looking forward to reducing opposition rights! My colleague, fresheners! In any case, we will not be able to hold the debate on the Rules of Procedure with this attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17204	In order to achieve an actual correction, honourable Member has reported fresheners. I would ask you to look at the facts to be corrected and the facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17225	High house! Mr Stadler said that I would have said that I am looking forward to reducing opposition rights. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's in the press!]] You claimed I said I was looking forward to a reduction in opposition rights. That is just not true, as all those present were able to convince themselves. Mr Stadler has deliberately said the untruth here!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-28-020-XX-NRSITZ-00008_d7e17261	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. I agree with Amendment No 29/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda of this meeting is thus complete. I declare that in this session, self-employed requests 110/A (E) to 125/A were made. Questions 182/J to 224/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will be convened in accordance with the agreement of commercial communications and allocations, will be convened at 2.54 p.m. That is to say, it will take place in the immediate follow-up to this meeting. The sitting is closed.
