ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e742	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to open the sitting to inform you that I have been told that the relevant administrative acts relating to the deposit of mandates and the issue of electoral licences for new Members who require the involvement of the national electoral authorities have not yet been completed. The original assumption that this could take more than two hours proves to be correct. The attempt to make the interruption shorter in order to save you time has not been successful. In order for us not to make a formal mistake and not to have problems with the official or any other protocol, I must interrupt the sitting once again. I am told that we can continue at 5:15 a.m. – at human discretion – and carry out the fishing talks. The sitting was suspended. – Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e776	I'll start the interrupted session again. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e803	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that Members may. Herbert Bösch, Dkfm. Ilona Graenitz, Dr. Hilde Hawlicek, Dkfm. DDr. Friedrich König, Dr. Reinhard Rack, Dr. Paul Rübig, Agnes Schierhuber, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumer, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Mag. Erich Schreiner, Dr. Klaus Lukasund Dr. Martina Gredler waived their mandates, which is linked to the confirmation of their election as Members of the European Parliament. Instead of Deputies Mag. Herbert Bösch was replaced by Member Manfred Lacner, instead of Deputies Dkfm. Ilona GraenitzDeputies Sonja Ablingenrund instead of Deputies Dr. Hilde Hawlicekde Deputies Eleonora Hostashin appointed the National Council. In addition, the mandate of Mr Dkfm was released. DDr. Friedrich KönigHerr Deputies Fritz Neugebauer, on the term of office of Dr. Reinhard RackHerr Deputies Hermann Kröllund on the term of office of Deputies Dr. Paul Rübig Mr Deputies Wolfgang Großruckufen. The mandate of Mr Ing. Leopold Maderthaner holds Deputies Dr. Alfred Brader. Deputies Ing. Leopold Maderthaner was given the mandate of Mr Agnes Schierhuber, Member of Parliament, Dr Alois Mockdas, who had been granted leave of office by Dr Spindelegger. In addition, instead of Deputies Ing. Wolfgang NußbaumerMr Dr Brigitte Povysil, instead of Deputies Mag. Karl SchweitzerMr Deputies Dr. Liane Höbinger-Lehrer, instead of Deputies Mag. Erich Schreiner Member Josef Trenkund instead of Member Dr. Klaus LukasHerr Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornin appointed the National Council. Finally, honourable Member Hans Helmut Moser was given the mandate of Mrs Martina Gredler. Since the electorate of the new mandates is already present and these mandates, as I am told, are present in the House, we will immediately make the fishing visit. You know the process: After reading the vow formulas and calling for a name, the new and the re-appropriate mandates will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I ask you to rise from the seats and ask Mrs. Applebeck to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e956	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Apfelbeck, the following honourable Members are making the fishing observation with the words: "I vow." Manfred Lacner, Sonja Ablinger, Eleonore Hostasch, Fritz Neugebauer, Hermann Kröll, Wolfgang Großruck, Dr. Alois Mock, Dr. Brigitte Povysil, Dr. Liane Höbinger-Lehrer, Josef Trenk, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Alfred Brader.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1012	I very much welcome the honourable Members who have just been thanked and wish them all the best. [[General condolences.]] That's the end of the fishing draw. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1042	I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room in accordance with Article 23 of the Rules of Procedure as regards the negotiating items and their allocations. I assume that those committees which have been set up are still being established today. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00002_d7e1336	I would also like to point out that, at this meeting, self-employed requests 17/A to 23/A (E) and questions 2/J to 12/J were made. The next meeting of the National Council, which includes business communications and the allocations provided for, will be convened at 5.28 p.m. It will therefore take place immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
