ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4247	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you to take the seats. I'll open the 17th. Meeting of the National Council. ==References====External links== Meeting held from 16 to 19 February. In April, the European Parliament's Directorate remained apprehensive and undisputed. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Chief, Dkfm. Bauer, Vergestnich, Nürnberger, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Gatterer, Dr. Schwimmer, Ing. Reichhold, Dr. Karlsson, Elmecker and Moser. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4281	For this meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: In his capacity as Federal Minister for Science, Research and Art Dr. Michalek, Minister of State Dr. Scholten is represented in his capacity as Minister of State for Public Economy and Transport by Mrs. Dr. Konrad. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Climate is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Einm. Ms. Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection Dr. Krammer is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Hums. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4311	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for consultation of responses
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4539	I declare that the request supported by 20 Members has been made that the answer be given to 109/AB and 64/AB of questions 71/J and 28/J by Mr Haider and others. Trattner and comrades concerning Wolfgang Purtscheller and the explosive attack on Ebergassing, as well as on opinions, surveys and studies commissioned by the Federal Minister for the Interior or the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs between 1992 and 1995, may hold a meeting before entering the agenda. According to § 92 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall refer this discussion to the end of the sitting, but not beyond 4 p.m., in the order indicated. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4564	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda be summarized. Is there any objection to this summary? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4588	We are going into the agenda, and I am aware that consensus on the duration of the debates on the agenda as a whole has been reached in the President-in-Office's Conference as follows: Accordingly, for today's meeting day and for the following session days, it will be up to and including 26. A block speaking time of 11 Vienna hours is set each April 1996, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 165 minutes, ÖVP 154 minutes, Freedom 143 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes speaking time. If a member of the Federal Government spoke in the debate for more than 20 minutes, the extent of the excess would be taken into account in the speaking time of the respective group. The Federal Minister for Justice is not considering this. This proposal has been reached in the President-in-Office of the Council. The National Council is now to be found on this issue. Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. Then there is unanimous agreement on this procedure. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (70 and 70 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for 1996 and Investments (96 of Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (71 and 71 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1997 and Investments (97 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4645	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (70 and 70 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1996, including investments and on the government template (71 and 71 of the supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1997 and Investments. The rapporteur on both points is Mr Fink, and I can ask him to introduce him into the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4667	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I shall report on the Government Template (70 and 70 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1996, including investments. ==References====External links== The draft federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997 were drawn up in March 1996. ==References====External links== In March 1996, a hearing on the topics of budgetary and economic policy, taxes and economics, health and science, to which some experts were invited, began. A subcommittee has been set up for the preliminary examination of the present proposal. ==References== ==References== The deliberations were held on 4 April 1996. The debate was divided as follows: Top institutions, agriculture, home affairs, health, education, national defence, BKA and women's affairs, justice, external affairs, economic affairs and other parts of the government template. No agreement was reached on the proposal. ==References== In April 1996, the Subcommittee chairman reported to the Budget Committee on the outcome of the discussions. In voting in the Committee on Budgets, the text of the Federal Financial Act for 1996 was adopted in the light of a amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachlerund Ing. Kurt Gartlehner The annex I – Federal proposal 1996 was taken into account by Dr. Ewald Novotny, Dkfm, taking into account a amendment tabled by Mr. Dr. Ewald Nowotny. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Mag. Gilbert Trattner, Dr. Heide Schmidt and Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen as well as several amendments tabled by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachlerund Ing. Kurt Gartlehner, including total summaries (Appendix Ia to Ic), these, taking into account the amendments adopted, and the economic compensatory estimate (Annex II) partly adopted unanimously, partly by changing majority. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. As regards Chapter 10, Gilbert Trattner did not agree with the majority of the Committee. The Annex III - establishment plan for the year 1996 was taken into account in a amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachlerund Ing. Kurt Gartlehner. The Annex IV – Vehicle Plan for the year 1996 was adopted in the light of a amendment by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler and Ing. Kurt Gartlehner was accepted by a majority. In addition, the Annex V – Plan for data processing facilities for 1996 as amended by the Government's proposal was adopted by a majority vote. The Committee on Budgets therefore proposes that the National Council: The draft Bundesfinanzgesetz submitted by the Federal Government for the year 1996 in the version of the related amendments and its Appendix I – Federal proposal in the version of the related amendments to the chapters 02: Federal legislation, 06: Court of Auditors, 14: Science and Research, 15: Social affairs, 17: Health and Consumer Protection, 18: Environment, 19: Youth and family, 50: Financial management, 51: Cash register management, 52: Public charges, 53: Financial compensation, 54: Federal assets, 55: Pensions (Government), 59: Financial debt, foreign exchange contracts, 60: Agriculture and forestry, 63: Trade, trade, industry, tourism, 64: Construction and technology, 65: Public economy and transport, Installations Ia to Ic – overall overviews taking into account the amendments resulting from the above amendments, Appendix II – Economic compensatory estimate and its summary breakdown in Appendix IIa; Annex III – establishment plan in the version of the related amendments, Annex IV – Vehicle Plan as amended by the attached amendments; and Appendix V – Plan for data processing plants (70 and 70 of the Supplements) shall be given constitutional approval. I shall also report on the Government template (71 and 71 of the supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 1997 and Investments. With regard to the structure of the discussions in the Committee on Budgets and in the subcommittee set up for this purpose, I refer to my statements on the Federal Finance Act for 1996. At the time of the vote on 12. In April 1996, the text of the Federal Financial Act for the year 1997, taking into account a amendment tabled by Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler and Ing. Gartlehner adopted by a majority vote. The Annex I – Federal Proposal 1997 was adopted in the light of a amendment tabled by Dr. Novotny, Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler, Mag. Trattner and Dr. Van der Bellen as well as several amendments tabled by Mr Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler and Ing. Gartlehner, including total summaries (Appendix Ia to Ic), these, taking into account the amendments adopted, as well as the economic compensatory estimate (Annex II) partly adopted unanimously, partly by changing majority. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Trattner concerning Chapter 10 did not agree with the majority of the Committee. The Annex III - establishment plan for the year 1997 was taken into account in a amendment tabled by Mr Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler and Ing. A majority vote in favour of Gartlehner. The Annex IV – Vehicle Plan for the year 1997 was adopted in the light of a amendment by Mr Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler and Ing. Gartlehner adopted by a majority vote. The Annex V – Plan for data processing facilities for 1997 was decided by a majority of the Committee as amended by the Government template. The Committee on Budgets therefore proposes that the National Council: The draft Bundesfinanzgesetz submitted by the Federal Government for the year 1997 in the version of the related amendments, together with its Appendix I – Federal proposal in the version of the related amendments to the chapters 02: Federal legislation, 06: Court of Auditors, 14: Science and Research, 17: Health and Consumer Protection, 18: Environment, 19: Youth and family, 50: Financial management, 51: Cash account, 53: Financial compensation, 54: Bundesfährung, 55: Pensions (Government of Highness), 63: Trade, trade, industry, tourism, 65: Public economy and transport, 75: alcohol (monopol), Annex Ia to Ic – General overviews taking into account the amendments resulting from the above amendments, Appendix II – Economic compensatory estimate and its summary breakdown in Appendix IIa; Annex III – establishment plan in the version of the related amendments, Annex IV – Vehicle Plan as amended by the attached amendments; and Appendix V – Plan for data processing plants (71 and 71 of the Supplements) shall be given constitutional approval. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4852	I would like to thank Mr Fink for reporting on the Committee's discussions on the two federal financial laws 1996 and 1997. General and special debates will be held under one. The President-in-Office agreed to follow up the debate. We have to debate the Upper Institutions and BKA/Women’s Affairs, the part of the national defence, the Section on External Affairs, the Section for Economic Affairs, the part of education and art, the health and health component; and a further part containing the other chapters of the Federal estimates, the text of the Federal Financial Laws, the establishment plans, vehicle plans and plans for data processing plants. The votes on the drafts of the two federal financial laws 1996 and 1997 are after this breakdown for Friday, 26. In April, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to radiation. Top organs Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Federal Chancellery/Women's affairs Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4956	We are now the first to enter into the negotiations with the Federal Chancellery and Women. The speaking times are known. I repeat her again: 165 minutes SPÖ, 154 minutes ÖVP, 143 minutes of Freedom and 99 minutes of Liberal Forum and Greens. As the first speaker, Mr Haider spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e4984	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Chapter of the Supreme Institutions not only concerns budgetary policy in the narrower sense, but also gives us the opportunity to consider the question of the constitution, the state of our top institutions, not only as regards the administrative area, but also as regards the legal protection bodies, such as the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court or direct civil protection bodies such as the People's Procuratorate or the Court of Auditors. I am therefore doing this because I believe that the last debate in the committees on the state of the budget which is now under way for decision-making in many citizens has also given the public some thought and, of course, also in the ranks of members of the government a dissatisfaction has been caused by the way in which the constitution of this country is finally dealt with. This contemplation was still promoted by this – which is the criticism of the opposition – that there is not only a quick-seated procedure in important budgetary decisions, but also that, above all, constitutional provisions, which have been adopted more or less arbitrarily, are trying to create complete facts and thus simply break the concept of legal protection. In addition, as a national government notes in its assessment, such a confusion has been caused in the legislation that, in the context of this budgetary consolidation conflict, as the Carinthian state government and the constitutional service call it, one can only talk about a preservation of the Austrian law culture, which has been set up a new highlight in the negative sense. Ladies and gentlemen! As members of a legislative body, it should be thought that we parliamentarians not only have to face the criticism that there is a negative highlight of the preservation of the legislative culture, but also that the Supreme Court, namely the Constitutional Court, is very dissatisfied with the nature of the "government legislator". We are no longer the legislators – this Parliament does not even have a legal apparatus – but we are the puppets of an increasingly powerful government law in this country, which chooses what it so to say to Parliament to eat and what it does not. As this legislation then looks out, it is also seen by the decisions of the Supreme Courts, which say the legislation is so sloppy and unforgettable that it is no longer understandable to the ordinary citizen. I quote the Constitutional Court of Justice for a law he has reviewed: "This requirement of a clear, citizens' understanding does not meet a requirement which requires subtle constitutional knowledge, qualified legal skills and experience, as well as even archival diligence, nor such an obligation to understand extraordinary methodological skills and a certain desire to solve thinking sports tasks." That is, the Constitutional Court itself says: Legislator, what do you think about the citizen? The citizen must have a certain desire to solve thinking sports tasks so that he can find out what is in these complicated laws, in these confusing materials that we serve him. That is why it must be a priority objective of a fundamental renewal of the constitutional institutions of this state to end this government legislation, to give Parliament a legal apparatus and to enable Members to make themselves laws that are tested, practical and enforceable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This sloppy handling of the rule of law means that, if the laws are no longer on the brink, a constitutional provision will be decided quickly so that, as now, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, as in the Structural Adjustment Act, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court will be removed. What kind of legal understanding is this, ladies and gentlemen, if the government is closing the way to the Supreme Court for the citizens seeking legal protection by bringing these provisions into the constitutional ranks? – It’s easy to say: We do not want the Supreme Court to consider whether tax laws can be adopted retroactively or not and what this means for the citizen. Nor should it be possible for a family father who complains of an unfair family tax to go to the highest court and bring it down. What is this understanding of the rule of law if this unculture, as it has now been torn down, continues? – Ladies and gentlemen! This is the way to Parliament's justice, which has already adopted a dangerous dimension. It is not possible to sit down, as the clubman of the Socialist Group did, and to say: I don't like the whole thing, but one day you can't stop it. Mr Kostelka! What are you a constitutional lawyer? You are yourself trained in this subject. You don't even like that. Dealing with the Constitution is something sensitive, you step it with feet, laugh at it, and say, one day it is not possible to tighten the Constitution and cut off the protection of the citizens. Otherwise, you will always stand up for human rights, or you will stand for God and the world and believe that they should have fundamental rights. But when it comes to protecting the fundamental and freedom rights of its own citizens in this Republic, you're going over it if it's in the government's interest that it can no longer be annoyed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Last but not least, one who is very allied to you, Mr Rauscher of the "Kurier", who looked nothing more than a pragmatically large coalition until 3047, meant: "From such incidents, we can see how little legal and democratic thinking is still anchored in our elites in the state." – He is right to agree. It is a question of a lack of rule of law and democracy, as is the case with the institutions. I am glad that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic gives us his attention today, because it is also about the implementation of the laws. Federal Chancellor! There are thousands of asylum proceedings in foreigners' legislation today, in any case before the Supreme Court, because in Austria there is the possibility that a foreigner who is seeking asylum or who is subject to a residence ban, because he has committed a crime, can nevertheless make his way to the Administrative Court. However, until the Administrative Court has decided, it must not be postponed. That is, notorical lawbreakers, serious boys, I would like to say, who are in Austria – we have collected many cases – foreigners illegally resident in Austria who commit crimes such as robbery, burglary, violent acts, which are often pre-punished, which often have a scapegoat, which includes several pages in the police computer, these people in any case go to the administrative court and say: If we are to be postponed, we go to the Administrative Court... [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you know what's in the police computer?]] You are of course interested in how we have the information, but not how we protect the Austrians. This is the typical attitude you show, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So these people go to the highest court when there is a ban on staying. Federal Chancellor! Now we know that the administrative court, due to its poor equipment – ten years ago it had to deal with 3,000 cases, now there are 11 000 cases, each month the number of cases increases by 250 to 300 – is hopelessly overwhelmed. The President of the Administrative Court says today that the completion of an asylum procedure or the issue of opposition to a deportation notice takes on average 60 months. That's five years! And then the circle closes to Mr One's integration policy, which provides that after five years everyone will have a permanent residence permit. You only have to be able to wait long enough at the highest court for a decision, then there is a permanent residence permit. The criminals, the perpetrators who have no right to be here in Austria – and of which there are thousands of cases – have us sitting here in the country and can no longer push them off. But the Austrians are denied legal protection where they should be granted. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a real legal problem that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should perhaps deal with once again, because it ultimately also depends on the decisions of this government to which the highest courts can or may not work. But there is another question that interests me. Federal Chancellor! They are responsible for the media. We liberals went to the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg three years ago to bring an action against the ORF-Monopol. It is significant that Austrian citizens must go to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg to bring down a monopoly that is nowhere in the world in this way. Even Albania has already liberalized, only in Austria there is still a media monopoly, something that the judges in Strasbourg have also brought to the fore. The Austrian representative of the Federal Chancellor appears there and says: We need to maintain this radio monopoly – to be read in its opinion – because we need to protect the Austrians from the manipulation of the media. That is why we prefer to have a government radio where we can decide for ourselves what people are told about information, about filtered truth. – That’s the argument! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky: But that was years ago!]] Yes, that's been years ago, and that's exactly what I'm saying now, Federal Chancellor. The government, not the ORF, was sentenced to lift the monopoly. Until today, you have not managed to enable privatisation in the Radio Law – this too is unconstitutional! – and until today you have not managed to lift this ORF monopoly formally and the Constitution in accordance with Austria and finally introduce freedom of expression, as it is enshrined in the Human Rights Convention, for Austria. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know why you're doing that. – Because, of course, the power over a state medium can be used effectively to strengthen its own government position. [[Abg. Oillinger: What about your propagandasender?]] Let's just look at the latest episode of the "Kaisermühlen-Blue" on Sunday. It's interesting how to act there: Subtle political propaganda, it can no longer be annoyed. Freedom councils are becoming – and that is unmistakable! – represented as anti-Semitic, anti-foreign, drunk and asocial. Even "The Press", which is not suspected of making free movement policy, concludes: "How easy to do," wrote "the press" yesterday, "in the ORF under the claim, one receives business entertainment, for political agitation the most primitive sort of broadcast times, provided, of course, that the ear figs are distributed to church, ÖVP and liberals and that the traffic lights remain completely unmentioned except for a tame alibisa." - That's exactly the line: What one no longer brings beyond the news and political argumentation is subtly trying to accommodate in the entertainment sector by simply pursuing a misguided opposition. That's what all authoritarian regimes did. This has also been done by the GDR by reducing the dissidents and ultimately promising these people their moral qualifications. And that's what you do in Austria. We have to go to court again. It was also condemned a contribution in the "10 1/2", the cultural journal, because a few days before the elections the liberals were tried to represent as an extremist group. We'll get right. There the Federal Chancellor eats, chewing in all sports broadcasts on Sunday. He is always present where he actually has no competence. If he was at least active in the sports field, I would like to say that. You can run a marathon with me the next year, then you would You may once be entitled to appear in a sports broadcast by the ORF. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It is also known that the extended arm of the Federal Chancellor, Mr Krammer, in the ORF, has ensured that, for example, before the election, one of the SPÖs-loving mission, namely "The Candidate", in which Herbert Fux should have played the main role and, so to speak, the pro-propore economy has been placed on the stage – about the pressure and intervention of Mr Krammer from the Federal Chancellor's Office. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] It is also known that we have a court report. If Mr. Vrannitzky is at the tennis tournament in Kitzbühel, the "time in the picture" will report on it, and he will be shown walking. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's not so good at tennis!]] That's so important. And if Mr. Dr. Vranitzky appears on TV at the "time in the picture", then a staunch comrade Broukal sits opposite him and lets him talk for ten minutes without a question. There's never been anything like that. This is Romanian television in the best times, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's just remember how politicians' intervention in the ORF invites critical journalists to the Chancellor's "press hour". Mr. Barazon of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" has written many critical articles about the government of Vranitzky, so he will be invited from the "press hour" of the ORF in the short term. It was similar to the editor-in-chief of the press, Michael Maier. Or the current initiative: Mr Nagiller will suddenly act to support reporting by setting up his own EU editorial action to implement European editorial before the EU elections, in order to make "supporting" in the sense of the government as it is so beautiful to make intelligible and supportive reporting. But not only do we remember these examples in the ORF, but we also remember the cancellation of a scientist from the Institute of Economic Research, Professor Breuss, who, before the vote in the EU, fully said the truth of how high the budget will really be. That's where the chancellor cut him off. Mr Kramer had to apologise on television for the fact that the scientist Professor Breuss had unfortunately not told the truth how high the deficit would be due to EU accession. The economic research institute depends on government funds. The ORF is of course at its service if Mr Kramer's abbot is to be transferred. – However, that Breuss kept right afterwards, it was only added in addition. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all of this should actually stimulate reflection and should also end today in the appeal to you, Federal Chancellor: Finally, follow the conclusions of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg! Need more You don't have to do it. It is not the task of the opposition to demand it. They are obliged, as head of this government, to act in the sense of knowledge. You haven't done that for three years. Why, nobody knows. That there are political backgrounds, I may have been able to present here a little. That's it: It is simply about this kind of guided opinion formation in our country. You are not only a powerful gentleman, who now also has an influence on the ORF and who has it in his hand, whether or not something is released, you have some 300 million schillings at your disposal, something that is unique in a democratic state, that it is more or less in the power of the chancellor to promote newspapers. Write them good, get them high subsidies, don't write good, look different again. The fact that the short-term editor of the "Press" Dr. Maier is being intervened in a farewell article in the "Presse" has admittedly admitted when he describes how one of Austria's highest politicians – hard to imagine who he is talking about – is calling on him and asking whether one cannot do something in the "Press" for his party, if one could not take greater account in reporting. Then the editor-in-chief of the press, according to his words, points out that the title of the newspaper stands "independent", day after day. "The argument could not convince my counterpart," writes Mr. Maier. Maybe I should have called a sum. But my interlocutors began to think inconspicuously about press promotion." [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] This is Austria, ladies and gentlemen! That's Austria! This is the "free expression" in our country! Therefore, one should really say: We are discussing the minima of this republic. There it becomes a state affair when Mr. Chancellor is working on a cover without clothes. The fact that this happened to the opposition chief of the liberals three years ago is forgotten. There was no excitement. But if the chancellor is affected, then immediately all the journalists who dared to bring out such a paper must withdraw, because that is Your Majesty's policy, ladies and gentlemen. I would be delighted to see the way in which the government offices are being put to work as regards the formation of opinions in our Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Hans Haider is right when he says: "In the course of its decades of government, the Socialists have created a cultural and media aggregate, which has Stalinist cuts and is the largest cultural unit next to Pjöngjang and Beijing." – He has so far been able to say that irrefutable. You have not even been able to object. They are now taking further steps. Mrs Ederer has already announced: We're going on now. Not only is there a need to promote opinionalism, the trend-journalism that is government-friendly, but we now also want to give priority to those citizens who are not conspicuous because they do not argue in public institutions within the meaning of the government. Remarkable citizens, teachers and professors in schools are to be sent to the Pranger by denunciators. Remarkable citizens! Mr. Brauneder has been mentioned as an example, he is to be put to the Pranger. A lecturer, Romig, is to be presented to the Pranger because he is an adviser to a bishop in Austria. It is already a sacrile to be conspicuous, so one has to take responsibility for these people. This reminds me very much of the times when the eastern block was still fully operational. There, too, one has dealt with those who have had different opinions. How does that work? – The socialist youth, according to Ederer, is to be used in these denunciant parties in schools and universities. There is a youth newspaper from the Socialist School Schools Association, in which pupils who are intended to monitor other students for their moral qualifications and their political reliability are given the following tips to students: "Forget the media and move through the streets with your friends, destroy limousines, plunder shops, light up liberals, spit old grandmothers, torment animals...!" These are the new denunciants! This is that spirit, Lord Chancellor, who is being bred under your benevolence! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is still being promoted!]] There are promotions for this! There are subsidies for that! The Socialist Party and the Socialist Trade Unionists' Group are still in this paper, although they are to be sprung on old grandmothers. .. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in fact, the scandal: that you are persecuting decent people today and not putting off such things as are cruel! We cannot accept this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let's take the debate! I'm ready to do this: Let us take the debate on the conspicuousness in this Republic. Federal Chancellor! It is striking that you have in your government a minister who is constantly noticing, Mr President. It gives instructions to enable a terrorist organisation in Austria. It is striking that you have an interior minister who escaped the third culprit of Ebergassing. I emphasize: let go! [[Abg. Oellinger: The Stadler was that!]] The Director-General Sika has already publicly confirmed in a television interview that this Mr Bassam al Taher, the third perpetrator of Ebergassing, is also coming from the terrorist organisation DEV-SOL, which is associated with the Kurdish resistance movement. What links are there really that such things are possible? [[Abg. Oellinger: Stadler!]] It is striking that you have a minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, who also gives unilateral investigation orders and now very slowly admits this. It is striking that you have a minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, who is confronted with an act of the criminal police in Lower Austria, which, minutely understood, shows that six further bombings in the past go to the account of the Ebergassinger perpetrators. No consequences so far! I ask you: What is the background that the coat of silence is spread about such things? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Maybe he was a friend!]] It is striking that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have an interior minister who is making a state police reform which is involved in the development of a university professor, who for many years has been advocating working relations with the GDR-Stasi authorities. This reformed by good money, around 80,000 s for eight hours of activity per day the state police? I'm really wondering: What else does the EIA in this coalition keep from finally ensuring that order is made? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The ministerial posts!]] What's going on? Why are you so reluctant on this question? It is not in the interest of this country that such conditions exist: that former Stasi friends reform the state police, that detectable bombing attacks are not continued, that the third perpetrator of Ebergassing, only because he has good links to the terrorist organisation DEV-SOL, may escape that the Minister of the Interior is depriving it with instructions to disband a banned organization in Austria! All this is possible! It is also striking that one of the same scenes I have described here, Mr Purtscheller, may teach at the Austrian schools with the release of Mr Scholten, but then suddenly comes to the suspicion that he is involved in letter bombs and bomb attacks as an Ebergassinger friend himself and suddenly goes abroad. [[Abg. Oillinger: But only with you!]] Where is he today, Mr. Purtscheller? Why is he no longer a correspondent for the "standard"? Why has he been dropped overnight as a correspondent for "NEWS"? Why don't we hear from him? Why doesn't he give us any more Ezzes? Where did he hide, that man who is allowed to teach our children at the Austrian schools, but who is actually trapped in the entire scene of terror and violence from the left? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also striking for us that the Aunt Fini of the Communist Party of Austria, Mrs. Steindling, who is looking for Austria with an international arrest warrant for the transaction of GDR funds, is guest of honour at the feast of Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Illustre Runde!]] It is also striking that the Federal Chancellor has apparently arranged his selection criteria for ministers - not only One belongs to this species, but also Mr Scholten. Mr. Scholten freely announced in the magazine "Die Bühne": "I don't feel comfortable until the climate really radicalizes." – This is the rule of law, democratic minister? When the climate radicalizes, does the S & D Scholten feel comfortable? [[Abg. Scheibner: All right!]] It is also striking, Mr Bundeskanzler, that a theatre director is held at the Austrian Burgtheater with the help of the Social Democrats, expressing public sympathy for the Rote-Armee Group and its terror, which holds a commemorative celebration for the RAF terrorists in the Burgtheater. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From tax money!]] It is also striking that the mayor of Vienna recently even said in an interview that every politician should be a bit of anarchist. Please, in which society is the Austrian People's Party currently moving, which has found a government alliance with the Social Democrats? – Ladies and gentlemen! Even the incarcerated and faithful Social Democratic Rozsenich it has become too much. Mr. Section Head Rozsenich in the Science Department – I only quote your own people here! – said: "It is all the more sad for me to see that the moral and intellectual level of party leadership, apart from very few exceptions, has now reached a low level which makes it increasingly unbearable for me to continue to support this party. Difficult," says Rozsenich, "but the fact is that the SPÖ leadership under the leadership of Dr. Vranitzky only stimulates or does not respond at all to criticism from its own ranks." – That’s the atmosphere! If we practice liberal criticism, we are also stimulated to react, we are immediately subjected to malice. But that the Federal Chancellor himself should think about whether or not he is indebted to a choice, whether he has really chosen the right minister, whether he can really imagine the Austrians to leave Mr. One even longer in office, whether he can really believe the Austrians to carry out ideology policy on the back of the citizens and thus brutally abuse the national offices, he does not come to this idea. But these questions ask us! A head of government who does not eliminate the ORF monopoly, although there is a judgment, a head of government who tolerates people with terrorist links in government offices and equips them with the responsibility for the security apparatus, a head of government who is silent to all these things and goes to the agenda, is concerned, especially since on the other hand, the same head of government does not think that the Austrians have a fundamental right to the other, with which they could find real legal protection at the Supreme Court in the sense of fundamental rights. I am in favour of a new line, I believe that a slim state with low taxes should be created, but this slender state must nevertheless remain a rule of law. It must be in the foreground of the strength of the right, Mr Chancellor, and not the right of the stronger one, who has power in politics. Maybe you should think about it! It's not our job as an opposition to tell you that again and again. It should be a natural obligation for you, as a Democrat, to think something more self-critical about what They believe in this republic and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5285	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5307	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Haider, before dealing with sequences from individual programmes of the ORF, has also dealt with some fundamental questions, and I would like to address them. However, I have noticed that the reporting of his own bungee-jumping and of the time he has needed to reach the goal of "remotely running" at the Vienna Marathon has not been criticised. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr Haider! This is your equality that you strive for: that besides the same there is also the same thing, and by the same thing you understand yourself. Mr Haider! You spoke to me as a constitutional judge. I very much welcome this comment. In the past, no one has found just one flaw in that constitutional provisions were adopted when they were necessary to ensure the return of tax laws. Now that the return effect is not even favourable, it is a burden, some in this country, and you, too, are, although it is clear that the objective of fiscal consolidation can only be achieved by means of a retroactive tax measure that will enter into force at the beginning of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, a very important question is raised in this House: Who is constitutional legislator: the negative constitutional legislator, the Constitutional Court, or we here? – I say quite clearly to you: For me, this question is clearly regulated by the Austrian Constitution. We have seen the development of the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You're cavering out the Constitution!]] But how doubling your argument is is easy to understand. If, for example, the Constitutional Court felt that it was permissible under Austrian constitutional law to cumulate political pensions without frontiers, such as in the case of your former party chairman Götz, we have here in this House a constitutional law, where we have said we reject such a fundamental right understanding. But there was no appeal about a constitutional correction of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we started official reforms, there were constitutional provisions to enable them. There was no appeal on this matter, although it was a correction of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The same was true of women's retirement age: We have also raised the constitutional retirement age, which the Constitutional Court has equated with that of the men until 2018. This is an argument that is very uneven: You will find a hair in the constitutional soup if you do not like the soup. But you're going to kick her out if it's going to fit you in politically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the beginning of your remarks, you pointed out that tens of thousands of procedures are necessary under the right of residence, because in an average procedure of five years, the persons concerned have to wait a very long time for the deportation and cannot be postponed even though they have committed crimes. You know very well that this is only a disappearing part of the tens of thousands of procedures. Furthermore, the oldest of these cases pending at the Constitutional Court is about five years old, on average a procedure at the Administrative Court takes much less long. You, Mr Haider, meant that Austria with Albania is the last state to have no liberalisation in the field of broadcasting rights. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No! Albania's gone!]] I should like to point out to you that, when we joined the European Convention on Human Rights, there were radio monopolies in all states in Europe. So at the time was the constitutional situation. In addition, we are not concerned with a monopoly, but with maintaining a cultural institution in this country, namely Austria's radio, which is committed to Austria and reports on Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider! Her sequence on the "Kaisermühlen-Blues" clearly shows what it really is about. You went to Strasbourg in connection with your own station, which you want to build. It's about playing a mini Berlusconi that you want to be in this country. Please note: Berlusconi has had to face a great defeat in Italy in recent days. But they will have to do this much more in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I invite you to take a look at the Federal Ministry Act! You will find there the competence of the Federal Chancellor for Sports Affairs. I admit, reading isn't always your thing, especially if it doesn't fit into your mind. But maybe you'll look into it once, you've done it a lot more often. As regards the promotion of newspapers, the promotion of publicity, your people, Howadt, Riess and Kurt Lukasek, are represented in the Commission. You know that the Commission usually takes unanimous decisions. Press promotion is about the distribution of funds according to pre-determined criteria. What you are accusing here, namely a censorship according to political criteria, - I can tell you clearly - is not your categories of thinking, but it is certainly not taking place in this country as long as social democracy is responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another comment: They quoted a student newspaper of the "Action Critical Students". You know, that's one of the double-bedded things that's on your agenda. There is a student newspaper in which such quotes as you read them are actually printed. However, you did not point out that this can be found in a corner of opinion where students could write what they wanted. The publication is not particularly tasteful and politically not very wise. However, you are not quoting the next number, where the editorial staff has pointed out, as well as this number itself, that it is first of all a publication of the opinion of a single student who has received an opinion forum there, and secondly that one regrets this failure. First of all, you quote and issue it as the opinion of a social democratic organization. But the second one you're hiding. That's your form of truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have not lost many words about the budget, which I very much regret because I believe that at the beginning of the budget debate we should also talk a little about the budget itself. If you have listened to the opposition in the last few days and weeks, you have got the impression that budget consolidation is a purely Austrian problem. First of all, let me point out that a brief look at the media is certain that such budget consolidation will also occur in Sweden, France and also in the Federal Republic of Germany, which you have recently quoted. On average, all European countries met Maastricht's budgetary criteria in 1989, but in 1993 they had to face a government debt of around six percent due to the economic recession. Even Professor Tichy has admitted in recent days that much – more than two thirds – of this deficit ratio is due to economic developments in 1980 to 1995. Therefore, the question of whether these public debt should not have been avoided is quite justified. I answer them with a clear yes – but the price would have been a army of unemployed people. Studies show that, if we were not to counter, the state would not make additional financial expenses, which would in addition mean 50,000 to 60 000 unemployed, and we did not want to do so. This was also the reason for Austria's failure to achieve a deep economic downturn after the years 1993 and 1994. We Socialists have acted in this sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, at the beginning of an economically better development, however, the time has come to implement a programme to ensure the state's ability to act again. For us Social Democrats, saving is not self-evident, but it is our aim to ensure that, for the young, often quoted by you, there is an unemployment insurance even in the future, if the person concerned is in the most difficult situation of his life, that health care and pension provision are guaranteed, and there is also a corresponding mass purchasing power in the future. Socially weighted is to be this fiscal consolidation, which ensures the ability of the State to act, not only because of our progressive tax system, but also because we social democrats are aware that the richest income in Austria has over 40 percent of all government revenue. What has been achieved is a good mix of additional revenue and expenditure reduction. There are tough measures – I admit – but they are socially balanced and necessary. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is also recognised by international media. For example, the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" - I quote with the permission of Mr President - meant: What has come out of these negotiations – very important – can be seen in European comparison with the efforts of social democracy. Vienna is – and it has every reason to be proud of it – in the first series of those who want to complete economic and monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, a very good assessment. We have managed a success course over the last ten years, which can be sought in Europe. These last ten years – remembering: they are ten years of government of Vranitzky – represent a good, a very, very good goal that has been fulfilled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The real gross domestic product has increased by 30 percent, real wages by 16 percent, jobs have increased by around 300 000 to over 3 million, and, ladies and gentlemen, you always complain about Austria's economic location, exports by 78 percent and savings by 77 percent. These are data that we can point to with pride and that can also be confirmed in recent times. Exports of goods from the Austrian economy, which you are suffering, have averaged between 5 and 10 percent in recent years, and this trend will continue. This is a success course that hardly any other country in Europe can make for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore: Do not regret the economic location Austria sick! For example, our labour costs are around a quarter below that of the Federal Republic of Germany. This means that we have the competitive advantage, and in addition, there is no reason for the Austrians' wages and salaries to take on the great sheer, just as some of them want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The unit labour costs in Austria prove that we are internationally competitive, and I am also proud of that. Ladies and gentlemen! The current account shows: While in the past tourism was the factor that ensured a balanced, reasonable balance of payments, it is now increasingly the export of goods. It was also added in this context: It was right to join the European Union. The successes are slow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All in all, the structural adjustment package is a right, a good mix of savings, investment promotions, additional incomes, modernisations that partially cost money – while maintaining credit credit. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days, they have increasingly limited themselves to criticising the budget debate on their own. Sometimes you have had the impression that you were so busy with press conferences and press releases that you had no time for the Committee's deliberations on the 1996 and 1997 budgets and on the Structural Adjustment Act. This impression not only has I, but in the "Economic Week" Mrs Elisabeth Horvath also meant that "this activity of opposition, once the media light is directed towards her, is at least in stark contrast to her behaviour in the previous budget session. After all, the representatives of the people of all the couleurs are always calling for the actual work of Parliament to be done not in plenary, but in the committees. This time, of course, there was not even a hint of it." That's my complaint. They have complained in press releases of a particular form of parliamentarianism, but have done nothing to improve parliamentaryism. We have thus had to close more than two thirds of the Committee's deliberations before the agreed time, because you no longer have any discussions, questions or comments. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Who is talking about discussion?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not saying that what we have to put behind us will be a model case for future budget debates. But I am also telling you with all the clarity that this procedure, which was carried out in plenary and committee for a total of seven weeks, was the best alternative. The other one we had would have been that we had pushed the 1995 budget out far into the summer. It would have been a budget that had nothing to do with reality at all, and we should have been waiting for consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians had a good feeling during the National Council elections in December of the previous year. They have opted for the right political power and the right programme, as have the members of the Chamber of Labour in Burgenland and in Carinthia made such a right decision in recent days. Mr. Dr. Haider, I am waiting for you to have the courage to explain out here: I recognise the vote of 92 and 93 percent of the workers of Burgenland and Carinthia. Do this, you have the democratic maturity, you have this size and explain that you are in an absolute minority position against the legal representation of workers. But be aware that the Austrians think quite differently in this regard and have told you that with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me return briefly to a debate last week, which will be the subject of discussions in plenary today. On Friday to around 3 p.m. the debate in this House was quite factual. After Mr Haider's day-long absence, in turn, to honour the national council's plenary session, there has suddenly been a wild whirlwind, because you have put an issue to the discussion, which has had nothing to do with the agenda on and on its own, but which has been made a great new story through poetry and without any truth. First of all, let me add: How far would the peace process in the Middle East have advanced if there had not been twenty, 25 years ago courageous men and women, especially from the social democracy circles, who were looking for talks with the PLO? In the area of the settlement areas of the Kurds there is war and terror. I do not want to admit this, but to talk with representatives of a people who are persecuted is rather political virtue and in no way to reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary, I read here in a newspaper today, in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" that my colleague Kiss is for a consistent persecution of the Kurdish activists. I would like to say that if they have only done something in the quietest way, they have come to debt. But if this is not the case, I say quite openly to you, I am afraid that what Kiss announces here will actually come true, namely that there is such a persecution beyond a concrete criminal act, even if the climate becomes sharper and radicalises the matter. Mr Kiss, you know what this means, namely that this unrest, this radicalization, if not terror, is carried into our own country. I think the task of the Austrian police is to do everything to stop such radicalization. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are acting in this context as are some of the countries of Europe, such as Holland or Denmark. I am not at my disposal for such a policy of responsibility, which I do not consider to be a support for terrorism. We are pursuing a policy of preventing terrorism. I think we should discuss this in all peace and substance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5464	Mr Kostelka! The voluntary speaking time of 20 minutes has expired. Your Rules of Procedure are 40 minutes' worth of attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5479	Thank you many times, I've come to the end. In this context, it is obvious that only the point was that, after Mr Haider, who has been attested by an Austrian court, was called the "See Mumbain of Right-wing Extreme Terror", he built up a counter-position on the social-democratic side. Ladies and gentlemen, this is transparent, that is deplorable, and there is truth becoming a shapeable raw product for your policy! Please note: This is the High House of the Republic and not a trap for Dobermen! And in no way must reputations become a legitimate means of political action.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5515	The next speaker is Mrs Schmidt. Voluntary speaking time: 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5537	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If you have experienced the last few weeks here, you do not really believe that there is Article 24 in our Constitution, which states that the legislation for the federal council is exercised by the National Council together with the Federal Council. That is, the Constitution clearly states that the National Council has the last word on whether there will be some law at all, when it should come into force and what it should look like. I now admit that the fact that the National Council has the last word is also undisputed in practice. However, whether it is a crucial word is more than doubtful. And now I even admit something – also as oppositionists –: This is not so new, for it is true that the majority of the legislative proposals come into the house on a government proposal; it is true that the majority of these government proposals are essentially adopted unchangedly. It is therefore quite possible to ask: Where is the difference if such a procedure is now chosen? I think there is a difference and a negative quality leap. Because this is the case that in the house itself there is a relatively narrow space, the pre-parliamentary space has been given a very strong weight. And I do not mean, at all, the pre-parliamentary area in consultation with the social partners, but I mean the instrument of the assessment procedure, which serves to mobilise a maximum of expertise, a maximum of special knowledge, to hear the people concerned, and – and this is very important to me as a parliamentarian – to enable Members to see things through, to recognize the problem situation, the complexity, the complexity. All of this is made more transparent by the review process and by the opinions that come into force in this context, including for Members. In order for the honourable Member to be able to exercise his responsibility much better, which is that he adopts these laws. In the present case, not only did Parliament itself become a notary function, but it has also been regarded as an alibi in this pre-parliamentary area, but it does not give it the slightest weight in terms of content. If you look at how this assessment procedure has passed to the Structural Adjustment Act, which is the preliminary stage, the prerequisite for these budgets to be decided this week: This review procedure is more than an insult, it does not deserve this term at all, yes it is actually an increase in this instrument. This has also made clear a number of institutions. It has already been mentioned by the Carinthian Government today, and I am therefore saving myself from quoting this opinion. The President of the Court of Auditors, who is present, expressly says that the Court of Auditors is again opposed to the practice that the Federal Ministry of Finance has long handled in this context, to submit to it proposals for the revision of texts, which are granted an unreasonablely short assessment period of just under a week. There is – I leave Carinthia – also a statement from the Office of the Salzburger Landesregierung; it is not possible to say it more clearly. The Salzburger Landesgebung (Land Government of Salzburg) is right to quote the term "reviewing procedures" and to say: If you have only a few hours at your disposal, an in-depth assessment of the projects cannot be made at all. It is therefore not possible, in the absence of concrete explanations, to assume that there are no concerns against individual points. – I wonder what that makes sense. There is also an opinion from the Lower Austrian Government. Here's what it says: In principle, it must be regretted that such profound financial policy measures as they are contained here are being sent out with an extremely short assessment period. For this reason, there was also a proper referral – a proper referral! – the departments concerned are not possible. The Federal Chancellery also clearly states that there was a review period of only four working days – one was still good at it anyway. The Federal Ministry of Finance is asked, because of the complexity of matter, to understand that within this period the constitutional service is not possible a substantial assessment of the importance of the matter. That is to say, even in advance, there has been no chance that those who are equipped with special knowledge, and this distinguishes them from most of the Members here, to deal with matter in order to actually show wrong developments in order to show mistakes in order not to allow wrong laws from the outset. You have then chosen the further way that in a few hours you have supposedly had extensive materials discussed in the committees – the word "consultation" is probably ridiculous in this regard. But now to say: You didn't even take the time off, I think it's an insult. For if you know that you have three hours available for the entire social chapter, for example, you also know that it is not at all possible to enter the matter; that is probably obvious. And the fact that one does not give up this farce at all, but distances itself from it, is just a logical consequence of it. I therefore believe that, in this whole process, the tension relationship that exists simply in a parliamentary democracy has been particularly clearly expressed. In my opinion, it is precisely this feeling that we need to formulate a general debate on the budget in order to draw its conclusions from it. It is a gross violation for me of the principle of sharing of power, which I already admit that in a parliamentary democracy it is often quite consciously broken through, often quite consciously and deliberately restricted. But one must know that it is basically an instrument to limit power, that it is basically an instrument to prevent the abuse of power and that, for this reason, the sharing of power is so important to the liberals. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In his speech, Mr Kostelka turned back to Friday. I want to do the same. I too would just like to focus very briefly on Mr Stadler's speech, and not on the content, because I think it is permissible for me to believe that criticism that conclusions are also formulated here from this speaker's point of view, whether they are shared or not. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But how!]] It is a matter of course of a parliament, of course a democracy. But as that has happened, anyone who has only a minimum degree of sensitivity to democracy has let the cold shone run over the back. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Think about what you said to Michalek!]] – You just need to read that, because you weren't there. The aggression, the diffamation, the evaporation, the exaltation, the penance, the downfall, all of this, these things as an overall picture, along with the gestures, the mimics, the sound color, the sound color, all this must be felt, one must have experienced, in order to know how far we are already here with this Parliament – he certainly does not take this Parliament seriously – and how dealing with other political opinions, with the political competitor looks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The woman teacher!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Clear haircut!"]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: She loves me hot! She already did that when she was with us!]] If you have experienced this, you have also tried – and I have made it quite conscious – to praise Mr Novotny, which is certainly unusual for an opposition – and I know that some Members of our group have done so too – and then to praise when he came out of here and said that he or his group would defend Parliament before the destruction of such members. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In your hatred!]] I have complained about this because it was my concern to make clear what is really going on here. But I was already aware during the clap, how inconsistuous it is, how unlit the side of the medal is, whose front side of honourable Members Novotny has illuminated here. Then: What is the defence of Parliament that he has spoken about by the Social Democrats? Does it look like it is right to reduce Parliament to a notarial function? Is it so if there is a tension and therefore a conflict between the government on the one hand and parliamentarians on the other, that the parliamentarian is on the side of the government, against Parliament? Does Parliament's defence look such that, if there is a conflict between the free mandate and the political group, it is on the side of the "group of party thinking"? Does it look like the Members of this group think it normal to be prescribed by the Head of Government or by the Vice-President when what is decided in this House? Does it look like the principle of coalition-free space itself is an unfit instrument for Parliament? – It cannot really be serious that this is the defense of parliamentarism! But even though I have just referred to Mr Novotny, it is no different with the ÖVP. Does the defence of parliamentarianism seem to be such that the concept of non-coalition, that is to say a very important principle for a parliament, is no different from the one used as a cover for the change to a different coalition, with a strict force of clubs, as happened in this Parliament a few months ago? Does it look like we are talking about the newspapers, as Mr Khol has done, that not only would a creative Parliament be wanted, but it would also be advocating and stimulating, but at the same time it says that oppositional applications will not find a majority without even knowing it without knowing which one will be put at all? If it looks like the honourable Member, Mr Khol, also says about the media, on television: It is up to us to use our two-thirds majority, regardless of what constitutional culture is associated with it? The fact that you can use your majority is probably out of question. But in this situation to articulate the demonstration of power – according to the motto: We now have the two-thirds majority again and therefore we will use them where we want to withdraw from the review of the Constitutional Court! – is this your defence of Parliament against the Freedom Party, which I also believe it wants to break up? They therefore bring other opposition parties and other critics into a situation in which one can no longer be able to really conduct the discussion properly if one is at once in the sheer, on which one side of which someone has to praise, because he is opposed to it, but precisely knows that the moral right to do so is no equal – the word "exactly so little" is correct – nor is it there. That is the difficulty of the discussion. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore think it is so necessary to think about it because a principle debate on a budget, even when it comes to budgets for two years, makes it necessary for a politically active person to think about the direction in which this democracy is developing. What is the direction in which this Parliament is developing? In what direction does this Austria develop as part of a common Europe? – I think it is important to think about it because it requires consequences; therefore, the alertness and attention to recognize the signs of certain directions is also important. Democracy is an essential part of political culture. I have already mentioned aspects of this political culture. This also includes considerations such as: How to deal with other opinions?, How to deal with minorities?, How to deal with social weak people? – All of this is part of political culture. Crossing the different fields of policy, I must say that one has nothing to blame each other. On the one hand, they're bad on one side, on the other, they're bad on the other. I think you can't figure things out and you can't say: Because I behave decently and honestly in one area, I have a free letter to act differently in another field, namely not as sensitive, not as alert and conscious as it would require the respective problem situation. Political culture also belongs to how one deals with the political competitor, how to deal with the plurality in democracy at all, and there these two government parties also have a huge need for repetition. Every time we stand in front of country elections, it is noticeable what climate you produce with your majority in this country and what pressure you exert on the citizens because it serves your power, for example, when it comes to obtaining declarations of support for candidateing for a country election, namely with the signature performance in front of the mayor, in front of the county headquarters, in front of the political officer in a small place where you know exactly how it is registered, where you know that even copies are made, so that you know who signed it. You've still done it, you can do it again. But what attitude is behind this and how much can the citizens of our country be manipulated? How difficult it is to bring them to the civil court and tell them: Give your democratic political understanding a back, and give no matter who you want to vote, different groups will have a chance to stand up for the election at all! What all this means is that the climate you produce in this country needs to be made clear. And that's very right for you. So don't talk to me about political culture. If she's serving you, you'll bend her! The credibility is also part of the political culture, namely the credibility measured not only by whether to keep election promises, but also by how to deal with reality and with pure wine gifting for the citizens. The latter you don't. They not only talk about the matter, but they also often represent things in a different light. You do this either from political considerations, because you are too misguided for the truth, or because you believe you can reach a majority by doing so. That is, you also agree when you feel the truth to people and when you do not think it is. But this is also a part of credibility. This is also a part of political culture. And it also belongs to the achievement of democratic awareness among our citizens that they feel at all serious. But they should take them seriously not only on the election day, if they are allowed to do their tricks, but all year round, in order to make them realize their democracy at all. For democracy lives on it! And that's something that you don't just have to neglect, but you're almost out of the week. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But it is also a feature of the development of our democracy and of the direction in which it develops, the influence of the media on politics. In this House last week, as a result of the consultation of the Structural Adjustment Act, we have already talked about how it happens that one simply does not want to abandon a desire to a media sar. Whether it's happening to you, whether you really appreciate this power at all, is not going to be debated. The fact is that you have simply made a kneefall in front of a media landscape, with a derogation in the contract of work, in front of very specific media players, perhaps thinking: Don't use it, it won't hurt anything. – If this is the basis for political behaviour, if it is the motivation for legislation, then it is really a low point of political culture! When I think about how we have discussed in a Committee on Culture, how deeply cultural creators are affected by this change in the working contract situation, which means for the whole cultural scene, I must say: There has been no reason at all to deal with something like this in an approach, whether or not one could regulate something else. But as soon as it comes to a heavy-duty paper, not even much is said about it, according to the motto: I'm sure it's safe! Let's go! – This is your idea of political culture? Is that really the development of democracy which you wish to see given, at the call of media sars, not only topics, but also content? The example of noise attack and grid search also shows this because it is not due to a need for content, but because you allow topics to be written, and then you also deal with them in a way where fundamental rights are no longer important to you, where you simply put yourself at the top of a wave, because it may bring some voice, but where, for safety reasons, no one will be beaten, because those who can start something with fundamental rights may be underestimated by you too little. If I imagine that you are consciously going along with and even force the development of this democracy into more influence of media democracy, I am concerned because I do not believe that political responsibility can really be lived well in this way. This also means that we are working against concentration in the media market. This also includes the fact that this Parliament is in fact dealing with the antitrust law once again in order to achieve a decommissioning of the concentrations we are currently having. Only: You don't trust yourself. You haven't trusted yourself at the last novel. This also means that you – and it has already been mentioned today – are not now looking again for a regulation at the ORF-Monopol with which you are restoring your party-political influence under another coat, but that you actually allow independence and media diversity. This means that a private radio law does not follow political interests, but rather the objective of pluralism in our democracy. These are essential points for the development of our democracy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] When I look at the development of Parliament, I see – and I have already put a flashlight on it – in what direction we are going. It is a matter of course to see this Parliament as a representative of the government parties. I do not understand the problem of the fact that a government must, of course, be interested in implementing its projects, because, if this fails, it is at least tried to do so. I don't know that at all. But if you consistently think through these thoughts and make them the sole measure, then we do not need Parliament anymore. It is therefore simply about finding a balance in this field of tension. It is about knowing where there is a conflict situation, what one decides to do. It cannot then be decided upon by the government and by Parliament. Then it can't be that we're making a collective legislation more and more practical. If I remember correctly, last year's title of the last collective law contained only two pages, now the title already has four pages. This cannot really be the way forward. You're getting tighter and tighter to tell us the next time: That's nothing new, we've done it for the last time. That is to say, this development of Parliament is not only corrective, but it should be strongly suggested that a bar be introduced, and that is because we are stressing our own responsibility more often in all the discussions that are now being held. To demand responsibility of citizens, but to deny Parliamentarians' own responsibility, that is not in keeping with it. That's where we're back to the unbelief. No one will follow you there – and that is right. If one does not always take the free mandate seriously, if one wants to speak against something that one's own political group wants, but if one also understands the free mandate in such a way that one takes responsibility for what one decides, for which one is part of the decision-making instrument, then the situation looks different. Then it will not be like it was in this structural adjustment law and in these two federal financial laws. By the way, my colleague, Mrs Freshenschlager, will come back to this, too, that we are dealing with the field of tension: Social partners here, government there and Parliament there. I think it is a mistake to have a link in which the social partners are represented here in Parliament. I admit that we will have to discuss where a border crossing is to take place, but that a Mrs Hostasch is sitting here, that a Mr Maderthaner is sitting here, that a Mr Vergestnich is sitting here, that all the social partners are sitting here, that I do not think is right. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a very strong observation of the fact that his understanding of parliamentarianism is moving out of the Chamber in favour of his secretary's understanding. That's really noticeable to me! It is not new, of course, that the environment and the field of work also shape the attitude here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] But we also see what is going on here, which concentrates on everything here, where Parliament's further hallucination is taking place, and how important it would be to address precisely these issues and bring about a change here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is to say, interrelationship with the social partners in this form I think is a misdevelopment. Finally, I would like to refer to the development of Austria as part of our common Europe, according to which structures and in what direction it is developing. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: "Bad" are all those who have a different opinion! That's "liberal"!]] - That's liberal. That's what I'm talking about. - Who said it was bad? Mr Puttinger, can't you listen? - Look, that's one thing, too. We don't have a culture of conflict. If my opinion does not fit in with you, I should like to say that I am wrong with other opinions. I am just saying that we think this kind of interdependence is wrong. Come on. Get out of here and argue this connection! I really feel a change in the concept of parliamentarianism, Mr President. You won't be able to take that. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is a minority opinion!]] That doesn't mean you can't have it. Of course! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is your minority opinion!]] That's right. And unfortunately, it's a minority opinion, and you're gonna have to admit it to me too. For it is the desire of a politician that, of course, he is ringing for a majority for his ideas. . I am simply talking about making it clear that this professional environment is very likely to affect the understanding of parliamentarianism. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You are demarcating certain professions from Parliament – do you mean that?]] No, no, no, Not at all "vocations". It is rather about certain functions. That's right. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, we really need to talk about this, whether this is all compatible. Let us start a discussion on this. What comes out of the discussion, of course, we cannot go ahead because we are a minority. But you can not only premise it because you currently have a majority by chance. It is about analyzing the problem at all, but you even refuse the problem, and that is what makes your mind stand. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In which direction is Austria developing? . It was very significant to listen to Mr Haider today, which legal understanding is expressed in him when it comes to foreigners. Of course, it is a problem in a long procedure that a decision cannot be made; it is true that this problem is also common to nationals. But the fact that we are now making a difference and refusing to accept certain principles of the rule of law from foreigners is a negative quality leap which you have already decided here with the right of asylum. Now we are still expected to continue, namely that, out of bureaucratic efficiency, we are increasingly restricting the rule of law for foreign citizens. What is so worrying about me, on which fertile soil that falls on certain groups – not only with the ÖVP, but also with the SPÖ. In the context of the Structural Adjustment Act, you have made a further step in the treatment of inequality, by allowing foreign citizens to be included equally in the family tax compensation system, only when it comes to the readjustment of rights, you make a difference between foreigners and foreigners: Then the Austrian or the Austrian, who has children abroad at school or at the university, is very likely to receive the family allowance, but foreign citizens who make the same contribution do not receive it. I really think this is a violation of the principle of equality. I already know that this is quite formally secured, Mr Feurstein. Only – you know, the mind attitude is not always based on the formal possibility to measure, but at least I measure it – and you have to leave it to me – in terms of what content is expressed in total. In other words, while you are treated equally in the duties, you are treated in the same way in the duties, you are taken out to make differences in the rights. And that is something we Liberals are not willing to accept. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this way, you and your party – including at national level – are dealing with the principles of the rule of law, so you are dealing with the rights I have referred to and in other areas. I know. It is of course not very popular when it comes to the need for housing that we have, if we take one step at a time to allow for the admission of foreign citizens. I know. It may be that this will also harm us in the election campaign, it may have hurt us already, but you are constantly orienting on whether it is useful or whether it harms the electorate, has led to the loss of principle thinking. I really think it is unfair to have someone deposited, but to him the rights he could get from it to simply agree – and you do so more and more often, and you did it again last week with the Structural Adjustment Act. I also wonder in which direction this Austria is developing when it comes to equal treatment for women and men. What have you decided with this Structural Adjustment Act? – Another deterioration of women’s rights! With the sayings that you want to implement women's promotion, it is not done, but you must also follow content. You didn't do anything about it! How do you deal with the overall framework conditions, with the structures? The pro-pore thinking – an ancient story in this Austria – always finds out when it comes to further securing – whether it's in the banking sector, whether it's with the interlocutory society, where you can also increase the board of directors, so that you can share it with half and a half again, whether that's at STEWEAG, where it's about bringing people back to red-black color teaching. You believe that this is something you can now carry to Europe – to Europe! It is embarrassing not only to admit to Commissioner Fischler, but also to Van der Miert, who speaks of a "kow trade". This is the attitude you want to develop and even to carry on to Europe, rather than making yourself Europeable in a different direction, namely from this overregulation, which we in Austria are suffering from, and finally those – and I can point to the proposals of the Liberals...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5750	Ladies and gentlemen, the voluntary speaking time of 30 minutes has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5765	I just saw it. We have tabled applications so that you do not always accuse us of criticizing us, but you can see, in our application for the Working Time Act, our application for the Industrial Code, our request for the Holiday Time Act, our request for the opening of the shop time, that there are very concrete proposals on the table in all of these matters; You should only treat them, you should only be prepared to deal with them. I would also like to talk about the budgetary development in concrete terms as regards the figures, but I stick to an internal agreement and therefore conclude. But one thing I would like to put as a headline about all of this: Not only do we need a reform of the budget debate, through which we can achieve more appropriate results under the participation of Parliament, but we also need more responsibility from this Parliament, because only with the pre-life of responsibility will you bring the citizens back to their responsibilities – and this taking responsibility is the most important building block of democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5803	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. In the sense of the agreement, I put the speaking time at 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5825	I put it myself at 15 minutes, Mr President, in view of my practice. Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn to the really important issues of budget planning, I would like to address a debate contribution by my club colleague and coalition partner Kostelka. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Freudsche miscarriage!]] Klubobmann-College! The Security Officer of the People's Party Paul Kiss recommended the rule of law of the Minister of the Interior and the courts to organisations qualified by the Supreme Court of that Republic as criminal organisations within the meaning of paragraph 278a of the Criminal Code. As a result, Klubobmann Kostelka here, and before him the Federal Chancellor in a similar press release, pointed out that this recommendation of the rule of law was a contribution to radicalisation and that tolerance of such organizations was correct, that had shown the example of the PLO. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well, this is a thought that is expressed there!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I am concerned because you should keep in mind the sentence of the Administrative Court in a famous judgment on which social democracy had to work for a long time. Mr Klubobmann, there is no one in the rule of law above the law and no one outside the law! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Klubobmann, Federal Chancellor and Minister of the Interior! If there are organisations that act unlawfully, there can be no tolerance to them, there can be no packaging with such organizations. Such "tolerance" – under quotation marks – always had negative consequences. Do I have to remind you of city councillor Heinz Nittel who was murdered by the PLO in Austria? Do I have to remind you of Carlos and his attack on OPEC? If I have to remind you of the attacks in Marchegg, do I have to remind you of the blood trail of the PLO in Austria at the time when it was practised against tolerance? [[Intervocations with the Greens and violent calls to the ÖVP.]] I must remind you of Minister Lösnak, who six or seven years ago, when I received a death threat from the right-wing side at an event at the university, said to me: Mr President, we have the extremes of law under control, we all know them, we tolerate them, then we can control them better. – Do I really have to remind you of that? I'll tell you: Neither the PLO nor the extreme of law, nor any organization to which the Supreme Court finds, when condemning four serious criminals, that they are invading funds and running acts of terrorism, and that such organizations have no tolerance against them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I should like to quote the Supreme Court of Justice, which says in the judgment: "In addition, the complainants disregarded the fact that the Court of First Instance expressly found that you, as a member of the National Liberation Front of Kurdistans ERNK, a sub-organisation of the PKK, were responsible for the procurement of financial needs by bringing in monthly donations and annual large-scale collections. Thus, the Court of Justice has set out in sufficient detail the actions by which the complainants participated in an organisation whose activity, although not exclusively, was in the pursuit of acts of terror." End of quote. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! If Paul Kiss and the ÖVP club here demand that the law be done, then we call into question the law, because in the rule of law no one is above the law and no one is outside the law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, what Cicero said in the Catalan speeches: Quousque teeth abutere... Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to comment on the budget debate and the budget debate. There are major problems throughout Europe with reforms of the social state, with reforms of the welfare state. There are crises in many state budgets created by debt created by excessive expenditure policies and by a departure from stability policy, and throughout Europe, throughout OECD, it is the government's task to work towards balanced budgets, to increase stability, and we also feel committed to this objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are three ways to achieve this goal. The first is the way to increase taxes, the way to increase taxes, the way to increase contributions to pension, unemployment and health insurance. This way, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable for us as an exclusive way of burden. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a second way, the path of absolute expenditure savings, the marked reduction in social benefits, the marked reductions in subsidies and the marked reductions in state benefits, state tasks and bureaucracy. This path has proper approaches, but is not the only way either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because if you try only through savings to get the big budget problems under control, you lose the possibility of setting priorities, you limit yourself to the socially unbearable, and you can no longer put the right accents with an eye. We have therefore opted for a third way, ladies and gentlemen, the path of a policy mix of spending savings and new revenue gains in relation to two thirds savings and one third in revenue, and I think this is the right way. [[Abg. Böhacker: herb and beet salad!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant for the discussion throughout Europe that the sentence applies here as well: Whoever comes too late punishes the story. If the measures are to be taken carefully and in good time, they can be carried out in a proportionate manner. In France, the measures have been put in place in good time, Germany is now trying to take these measures, and I hope that with the help of the social partners, our German friends will succeed in anchoring a socially acceptable package of savings. In Sweden the measures have been taken too late and have had to make massive cuts, in Italy we have been rehabilitated too late, we have had to eliminate entire categories of social benefits. Therefore: It is our government's task to take the right measures to find the Cairos, that is to say, the right moment. We may have used the right moment a little late, but at least now we have presented a budget plan which will enable the goal of restoring stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, followed the budget debate very closely, and I must tell you that at the end of this budget debate I am already in a position to say that there have been a number of very constructive and very valuable discussions, but that, in principle, a fourth path, in addition to these three paths, has not been put to the debate. The Liberal Party, as the largest opposition party, has verbally felt obliged to correct the budget only by saving the budget, through cutbacks in subsidies, e.g. halving subsidies, i.e. also in agriculture, by stamping – that is a legitimate measure. [[Abg. Böhacker: There are no subsidies for farmers!]] It was the declared objective of the FPÖ to reduce the tax rate from 44 to 40 percent, i.e. to move a volume of about 80 billion exclusively through savings. By the way, this is a point where FPÖ and Liberals meet; even the Liberals have seen their priority in reducing this transfer rate from 44 to 40 percent, i.e. in a drastic reduction in subsidies. At the same time, however, when the budget debate was under way in this House, the liberals brought 20 requests to the special meeting when it came to a programme to combat unemployment, the cost of which would be between – low estimated 25 and – highly estimated – 43 billion schilling. That is to say, a homogeneous alternative to our budget rehabilitation programme was not proposed by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum has made more homogeneous and comprehensible budget proposals, which essentially also go in the direction of the first way: Savings. Savings in transfers and thus also massive savings in the social field. Net income over 37 000 S should not be able to benefit essentially from transfers, one can see transfers in the family area. The Greens, on the other hand, have made a number of proposals that are very interesting to discuss. They are based on a policy mix similar to the government's proposals, i.e. to make mainly expenditure-side savings and to open up new revenue. It is not surprising, however, that with regard to the political attitude of the Greens, other savings have been proposed than ours, which is the legitimate right of the Greens or also a duty, because the citizens must have the choice of what budgetary measures they have to choose among the parties. Ladies and gentlemen! But a fundamentally different budget, another budget concept, the Stone of the Wise, was not found by the opposition parties. I now assume that, at the end of the day, with the legitimacy of the two government parties, a financial plan has been submitted for the years 1996/97, which will stand and form the basis for a new upturn in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take two consequences from the budget deliberations and the entire political process of these last weeks and months. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] One consequence is that I believe it is right not to make the budget deliberations in autumn, but that it would also be wiser for the future to decide on budget deliberations already in the first half of the year in the planning period and then, in the second half of the year, if the accounts were to be drawn up when the necessary budgetary developments existed, to make a second debate, a re-adjustment debate. And the second is that we in the National Council are also aware of our responsibility that the government budget is not getting out of the row again. That is why we must calculate and account for our own requests for follow-up costs, and we must insist that legislative projects submitted by the Federal Government are seriously covered and that no other local authorities are involved in this. Ladies and gentlemen! We need Mutmacher in Austria – and not Mäsmacher.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e5986	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic. – Ladies and gentlemen! You have, voluntarily agreed, 30 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6008	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated members of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! In a budget debate, it is almost common practice that the government approves, praises, finds correct the budget it has presented and that the opposition criticizes the same budget and shows weaknesses. But especially interesting are the undertones of this debate – especially in the case of budget debate – the topics that are also tailored in general terms. These sounds were very remarkable with my previous speakers. It shows how fragile the consensus among the government parties is, how fragile it will be with this numbering work being presented, and how unstable this consensus is, which you conjure up here today and which you will bless at the end of the week. If from the speeches of the representatives of the government parties the discussion on the subject of terrorism has always been about the subject of PKK and if very sharp words have fallen here, even though in advance – from the second series of government parties – very specific accusations have been launched, then this has only one meaning: to signal from the PDP towards the SPÖ, watch out, be careful, actually there is in this House, actually there is a black and blue majority in this country. This is the actual message being delivered here. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You are not concerned with the PKK, and you are not really concerned about questions of security, about the rejection of violence – you should have behaved quite differently in many, many points – but it is about this domestic policy signal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you just got the question PKK out of the ÖVP, I'll ask you: Where was your criticism when a real representative of a terrorist movement, when Abu Nidal, approved, was allowed to hold an office in Vienna? There was a lot, much quieter. At that time, it was not opportunistic to elicit coalition-internal twilight. Or: Where have you been from the ÖVP in connection with the bomb alloy in South Tyrol? Was it appropriate to speak of idealists when there were dead people? – So this is very one-sided, and that is very obvious and very transparent what you are doing here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the FPÖ, your already apparently in the starting holes alliance partner. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You shouldn't be quick!]] There is a lot to be said about the comments made by Dr. Haider. Dr. Haider! You are absolutely right,... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] You can't even wait if you're right. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say anything! It was the Haigermoser!]] Dr. Haider! You're absolutely right if you're suing and complaining about the pro-pore economy in Austria. It is a scandal that in enterprises, not only in the national area, until the lower ranks are still strictly divided into red and black according to the party book. It is true that, whenever the government politicians fit, a media slugs and, once again, when it is opportune, some very embarrassing media can be used. It is also true if the liberals complain of a huge arrogance of the powerful, a truly threesome deal with the two-thirds of the resurgence, when retroactive laws are made, when it is said: What's the matter? Well, if we can, don't do anything, we'll just do it. On the other hand, I would remind you that, for example, the Rules of Procedure, which brought about a dramatic circumcision of opposition rights, have been voted by your votes. I do not think that the government would have dared, at the time, to impose a regulatory reform of this kind against the closed opposition. I have certainly had the impression that you, who have gone out a little better than the smaller opposition parties, have been very happy to participate in this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also do not want to remind you now that, even when it was about money, the Freedom Party has also mixed and cut together, as for example, with ad series of motorway companies in close-to-party leaves, when you held the construction site in Carinthia. These are certainly practices which are still being used by the government parties for much, much more, but they are all bad, from whichever side they are practised. In one I give you absolutely wrong: If you go so far as to compare Austria – in spite of all legitimate criticism of the government, in all of these three practices of the party's book economy, the media and media, as always in the crowd, and the dramatic circumcision of opposition rights – with countries such as the former GDR, I think it is wrong and likely to weaken overall the strength of the opposition arguments. In all cases of failure, mistakes and weaknesses, I do not believe that it is a matter of comparing Austria with a state which has issued a shot command at its border with regard to its own citizens. This comparison can be legitimately done in Austria – thank God! - don't pull. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the actual contents of this budget. We could talk about many detailed measures, detailed measures, as they have been discussed in media reports of the last days and weeks, I think. We have talked about the measures directed against women, about the package in the field of universities – a very one-sided, particularly dramatic, load package. We have talked about measures against unemployed fellow citizens, and I believe these measures are now well known in the public. What I'm talking about today is the general development line that a state takes. The budget is an expression of such a line of development. The budget also shows the direction in which the course is set. I am convinced that Austria is facing the most important change in the course of the coming millennium. I am convinced that, with these budgets, we are now in danger of making a wrong decision. We now have the opportunity to make a choice between a path to an ecological modernity, in my opinion, the only economically successful way that a highly developed industrial state can take at the threshold to the information age. What does this path into ecological modernity require? – First of all, a comprehensive ecologisation package: an ecologisation that is part of the economic programmes and does not contrast with the economy. The core and main component of such economic ecologisation is a system change in the tax system – not just an added tax on gas and electricity, but a replacement of old taxes by a new system, a reduction of labour-dependent taxes and taxes and instead a dynamic introduction of energy taxes. That would be the core of ecological modernisation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This core leaves your budget as a whole and also in many details clearly missing: the abandonment of the Toronto objective, the non-more reflection on the failed, far too short-term transit agreement and the many other points; the removal of a single environmental investment law without weakening the rights of citizens. All of this confirms my claim that this budget is at the heart of the main need for ecological modernisation. This is not only what I claim, but it also confirms to me some government-oriented representatives of the Research Fund for the Industrial Economy. A few days ago, together with Members of other parties, I had the opportunity to have a very detailed discussion with representatives of this research fund. There was stone and clearly said: With the resources now available, a research initiative, as we need it, as the Austrian economy needs, is simply not to achieve. We have a currently declining research and development effort of about 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product. A minimum requirement in the current Austrian situation – at the threshold to the information age – would be a research rate of at least 2 percent. Any expert, any expert in this field can confirm this. That is why it is incorrect for you to speak of an offensive here, although you know exactly that you do not only make offensive use of this programme, but certainly purchase a dramatic reduction in jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lack of ecological research, lack of environmental tax reform, lack of the central requirement of ecological modernisation. However, there is also a lack of the second criterion, which I think is essential for a modern, ecological information state: that it is unconditionally committed to social emancipation. Emancipation means that it is a state task to dive into the discriminated groups, so to speak, and to help them overcome their discrimination in society. This concerns women. This concerns the young people who are not yet in the labour market. This is also true of people who have temporarily left the labour market or who have not been able to enter the labour market because of their age, illness or disability. In all these groups, the load package is selectively effective. There, a piece of freedom that has been labored out in recent years is being reduced everywhere. There is a reduction in freedom for women: by restrictions on pay, by restrictions on the pension scheme – without, as you have promised, the double and triple burden that discrimination will at least be reduced. Nothing is done for the further emancipation of the young people, the disabled. On the contrary: They are disproportionately affected by this load package. It is saved disproportionately with them. This means that old patriarchal dependencies are sure to grow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Wollten It is a genuinely modern state of environmental law, then it would be a crucial criterion: the self-determination of all citizens and the possibility of making their own decisions, environmental decisions, rather than becoming more and more connected to the bond of other people. However, this is done with this package! This is even worse than the quantitative burden, namely the fact that new dependencies are created and old dependencies are encouraged. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the question of safety, it has already been addressed in all other speeches. I also believe that this would be the third major criterion of a new, modern ecological state in the information age. Safety in a new form. Of course, an extension of the safety concept to environmental issues. Just ten years after the terrible Chernobyl accident, we should really ask ourselves what safety means, and we should finally extend or overtake a dusty, police-military term. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But in addition to this new ecological security, which we so urgently need and which is vital for Austria in particular – we are surrounded by scrapped, old nuclear power stations that need to be shut down – we also need to question the classical safety concept. At a time when the UN is increasingly recognizing as a crisis fire brigade that this is no longer going from one area to another, financial, organisational, political, we must ask ourselves: How do we come to a new understanding of security so that we can develop social security and ecology in peace? It is not without the development of new and preventive structures. That seems to me to be far too short. Especially in the case of this anti-terrorism debate so unilaterally led today, which will meet us once again in the afternoon during the question debate, we should look back on the earlier, larger role of Austria in foreign policy when it came to the question of the involvement of the Palestinians in negotiation processes. On the one hand, Austria was able to gain a unique international status: as a country of mediation, as a country that extends its hands to both sides and brings shattered, perhaps even refined, groups to the negotiating table. This was important for Austria and our reputation, and this was the beginning of a process for the affected groups, which, after many years, has been laborious and slow to lead to first successes. Today, there are many such areas of conflict: starting from the former Yugoslavia, in which the conflicts are far from over and gone, to the former Soviet Union, to the tensions between the world religions, the renewed fundamentalisms in many areas of religions and religious communities. There, a neutral country like Austria would be urgently called upon to act as a truly neutral state: open to legitimate concerns, of course violence and terrorism always condemning and rejecting, but also questioning the causes of why it comes so far. We have to question the rights of the Kurdish civilian population, the rights of the population in Tibet, Taiwan, the rights of so many oppressed people and groups of people. That would be the real role of Austria – it would only require that we actually hold an open and honest security debate, that we do not say negligently and easily – and there is once again a hack of the coalition parties – that neutrality is obsolete or not completely obsolete. We need to have this discussion: What does a modern security policy mean, and what does it require? We need to be unconditionally behind those institutions that feel committed to human rights, whether they are supranational institutions or non-governmental organisations, and to upgrade and support the work of these organisations. – This is the real task of Austria. These three requirements: comprehensive economic ecologisation, social emancipation of disadvantaged groups and a new preventive security understanding, which would be the three major criteria I demand from a truly forward-looking budget that will lead us to the next millennium. I believe, beyond all the small criticisms of individual measures, that these three major criteria are too short in these budgets, and that is why we reject the budgets presented by the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6113	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6135	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on a number of points, and I therefore have to express myself very briefly on every point because of the time allocated. First of all, I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government for the fact that so much has happened on the special point of aid to Eastern Europe from the Austrian side and, above all, on the initiative of the Federal Chancellor in recent years and Austria has not made any mistakes that some other states have made, who thought, with the elimination of Communism, everything has been achieved for these states. Ongoing attention is needed, ongoing assistance is needed, differentiation is needed, and concrete support is needed for these countries as far as the introduction into the European institutions is concerned. I will say a lot more about this tomorrow in the chapter on foreign policy. It is good that Austria is carrying out this task so strongly, and I think it would be worth noting that this is something positive by all the political groups in this House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Second comment, to Parliament itself. There's a lot to say here. I would like to point out that we can be very pleased that the work of the EU's main committee, i.e. for Parliament's participation in EU affairs, has also been provided with conditions in Parliament's management, technical nature, such as the use of computer and data collection, which enable us to carry out this task better and faster. In particular, I would like to point out that this information is There is evidence that this is not true, what the opposition sometimes argues, namely that the government parties would be so well informed by the closeness to the government and the opposition ah so bad. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Here all information is available rapidly, for all at the same time – all can behave equally in this respect. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Kubobfrau Schmidt, but also other speakers, spoke on many issues of Parliament's rights. I think it would be worth talking about it for a longer time. It must be clear to us that when weighing, what is more important for this Republic: a rapid budget or a long review? – it was not as simple as it was, but we assume that it would have been so simple – to make the decision of a parliamentary body as possible a budget as soon as possible, especially in view of the costs of the Republic and thus of all the citizens if it were to be delayed for a long time. I do not think that this budget is quite correct, as it is the usual situation to be criticised. Of course, it is legitimate to present things here – I remember one liberal Member who came out with all the budget documents – he was then pictured everywhere – and described how many kilos of paper he would have had to read in a certain period of time. This does not correspond, ladies and gentlemen, to the other reality of Parliament. Even otherwise, not every Member of Parliament reads – let's say it out! – every word three times and checks every thing. In a modern Parliament, of course, there is the responsibility of every Member, but also a reasonable degree of division of work. That is why there are committees in which certain people take a close look at certain things, and the others of one group rely on them, and those who have looked at them closely rely on others who work there on other questions. No Member can deal with everything in detail in any committee. A Parliament must know a division of work and must also know that not every Member can examine every word in detail. That's why I didn't find it as bad as the whole thing happened. Here there was the possibility that everyone in his area could take a closer look at things. And it's certainly unfair when it's described as standing up here Hampel men who didn't know what they were voting for. Here, of course, people who knew exactly what was going on in certain areas, and as far as the other areas are concerned, they have inquired and relied on their colleagues, who have once again known exactly what they are doing. I believe that even if less paper is to be worked on, we will not be able to do so without this division of labour without this specialization in a Parliament, where all that an opposition wishes is fulfilled. That is why it is unfair to inculcate this in an objective debate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, it is possible to talk about a number of things, about the sum of the government's proposals, about the "opportunity" government proposals – including ministerial drafts that are submitted on initiative proposals – whether this should not be presented separately with et cetera. All of this can be discussed. But to take all of this to the point of saying that the interplay does not function here, it is not democratic enough, I do not quite think it is fair. The colleague Schmidt should also ask himself whether, in fact, everything that a opposition says is, in fact, an expression of Parliament's rights, and really all that a majority in this House does, is just the follow-up, as it was presented, to a government, whether there are political groups, candidate groups with particular interests, whether some of what the opposition says is not also an expression of their electional considerations and not so much a parliamentary concern as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to discuss these issues in the framework of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. I just think we should have an open and honest language here. I would like to make a point on another point, namely Mr Khol and on the question of the Kurds. Mr. Khol! I was extremely shocked, as my colleague Kostelka did, by what your security spokesman Kiss said. I was shocked by the literal quotations that were rendered under quotation marks. He didn't answer her. My first point: He speaks in a literal quote not only of the PKK or part of the PKK, but of "consequenced persecution of Kurdish activists." Who are now Kurdish activists, activists of the Kurdish cause? I don't need to spread the story. We all know the tragic fate of the Kurdish people, who, through the order that the world has found for an area after a terrible war, can no longer see the chance of having a common state for itself. We all know that no one of us can, for the reasons of maintaining this order, because it guarantees peace, for a Kurdish state, and therefore everyone should take action to ensure that the Kurds in the respective countries, in the countries in which they represent a minority, get as many of these minority rights as possible and that they can also operate autonomously in an area that they most populate. There are many activists who advocate this right, with peaceful means, to those who cannot be tolerated. Representatives of the Exile Parliament, Kurdish mayor, DEB representatives who are in prison – we all have condemned this in the Council of Europe and demanded its release – are all Kurdish activists. My first accusation is that you can say all of them on the basis of internal policy considerations, so that you can say: Here I am, a hard man! as a people tossed into a pot. This is unjust, deeply unjust to the Kurdish people and their fate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second point, Mr Khol: It was a good tradition to consider such questions calmly and precisely: How do you proceed, what helps our state, and what really is? In this case, it was said to take a close look at this court judgment together, because it probably does not mean what is said here. That's probably not what it means – perhaps. Let's take a look at this! There are some members of this House – I will also quote them – quite a different view. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you seen the pictures from Germany, Mr. Colleague?]] Wait! – Mr Scheibner! I would hold back a bit, because the one who believes that the court judgment does not mean that the PKK should be prohibited is Mr Ofner. So I'd wait a little with the calls in your place. I'm just giving you the advice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Secondly, Mr. Khol, would be to be considered exactly... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We don't have to be of the opinion of the Ofner!]] That you're not, you know the whole house anyway. But for others, it is not the same on all questions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are not a leader party!]] Rarely so laughing, Mr. Cot. The question that arises, Mr Khol, is: What does the PKK's ban mean by law? If it has any structure in Austria, is it organized in such a way that it can be banned? All these are questions to be discussed in peace – and not as it happened here. What bothers me is that Mr Kiss does not say that the question is to solve the question before something happens, but he speaks of – and I quote him literally now – "consequenced persecution of Kurdish activists, even if then the climate becomes sharper and the matter radicalizes". Is that the right way? Is this the tradition, including your Foreign Minister, to address such problems? On this question, Mr Scheibner, I like, by far not in all questions, but on this question already, Mr Ofner much better, in an interview of 26. March this year said: "I also demanded a ban on Austria after the PKK ban in Germany. And in the meantime" – said Ofner – "I have revised my position a little bit. The PKK represents only a marginal problem in Austria compared to Germany. And as long as it doesn't become an unrest, we could live on as before." - So Ofner. I am not saying that I am following this in everything, but I believe that what Kiss proposes is that consistent persecution, even if the climate becomes more intense and the matter is radicalised, is not the way in which we can deal with the solution to this problem. It is necessary to talk calmly about the question of calming down: What helps, what is best for our Republic itself? – But it is also necessary – I say again, ladies and gentlemen – not to do what some forces in Turkey would like to do: to equate all Kurds with radical parts of the PKK and to achieve that there are fewer and less allies to the Kurds' struggle for freedom and their commitment to rights which Turkey would have to guarantee them by its membership in the Council of Europe. This is not the way in which Austria is doing otherwise on such questions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6244	The next speaker was Mr Meischberger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6265	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The chapter "Oberste Organe/Bundeskanzleramt" is traditionally also used to debate media policy in this country – although this state government is absolutely not prepared to make real media policy. It is impressive how this Federal Government has naturally tried since 1987 to ignore international developments in the media landscape and to go an Austrian path that ultimately makes us what we are almost today: namely, to the end, when developing a contemporary media landscape in Europe. This is not only our position within the EU, but also the political framework for media companies is more liberal than in Austria. There, private media makers can invest in this future industry and actually become active. In Austria, on the other hand, official media policy is limited to three pillars, all of which have nothing to do with opening up and liberalising the media landscape. The first pillar is the stable pillar of the media announcement policy. Already in the 1987 Coalition Agreement – which is from today's point of view media-political stone age – it states that the coalition makes the changes in the European media landscape, the preservation and expansion of information, media and opinion diversity media-political challenges. From the Federal Government's point of view in 1987, the strengthening of the competitiveness of Austrian media producers in the interests of preserving the identity of Austria and of an open and pluralistic, democratic society system. It is, as this 1987 coalition agreement states, a liberalisation of radio and television for private programme providers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: When was that?]] This was already in 1987 and at that time only one announcement. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There was some water going down the Danube!]] There's a lot of water going down there. In 1996, Mr Collegue, the Federal Chancellor's Government's statement on the subject of media reads as follows: One of the most important questions for our country is how we will deal with the further development of the information society. And then we're going to go on: Therefore, with radio and television, we expressly confess to the adversities of private and commercial media. The difference between 1987 and 1996 is thus to be found exclusively in semantics. Liberalisation to be achieved has turned away from the intention to express a commitment at that time, and this is what this Federal Government has needed for ten years. We must wait for this commitment to be implemented, and if this takes another ten years, Austria will finally end up coming from the emerging countries to the Mediterranean developing country. If we remember – that is already the second pillar of Austrian media policy – that the media legislation in this country is made de facto by the courts, then the whole thing becomes bitter and, above all, embarrassing for us, for Parliament, for the legislator. The Constitutional Court cannot ask the Federal Government to act only because the Austrian Federal Constitution binds its hands to the highest court itself because of the action of the Tele-1 Private TV Society. And all of this after the Republic of Austria was sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights! Three years later, the Constitutional Court, in its knowledge of the tele-1 private television company’s action, writes the following – and this should be particularly well heard as a parliamentarian –: The particular feature of the situation to be assessed here is the fact that, as a result of which there must be a specific federal authorisation or authorisation for the dissemination of radio and television, the system must be constitutional and therefore a review by the Constitutional Court of Justice has been withdrawn and, on the other hand, that the inadmissibility of the dissemination of terrestrial television for operators other than the ORF goes back to the inaction of the legislator. – The Constitutional Court also writes: So there is not just a partial omission, but a complete inactivity of the legislator. - Quote. You really have to let that break on your tongue. The Austrian Constitutional Court of Justice notes in the Strasbourg judgment of 1993 that, on the basis of this judgment, an complainant is unable to exercise fully his rights based on the European Convention on Human Rights, because the legislator – and that is what we, ladies and gentlemen, are doing – is completely ineffective in Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The coalition, not us!]] The members of the coalition are particularly dependent on the government's submissions in this field of media policy. That means, however, that: If an Austrian citizen wishes to exercise his rights laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights, he must lodge a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights at least on media policy issues. That means two years of procedure, which means cost of more than 1 million schilling. And even if he was to be given his human right there, that does not mean, for example, that he is allowed to operate terrestrial private television in Austria. Three years later, even after such a judgment, it is not even rudimentary to see how this judgment is to be transformed into Austrian law. And the legislator, as the Constitutional Court has found, is completely inactive. He is in good German, no matter what was decided in Strasbourg. It does not matter to him that the European Convention on Human Rights has been violated in Austria in terms of diversity of opinion and freedom of expression. On the other hand, it is less inactive when it comes to introducing restrictions and restrictions under the cover of liberalisation, as shown by the Regional Radio Act. This is a particular embarrassment that has happened both to this Federal Government and to this House. There is a great deal to be said about this, but I think we still have the opportunity to talk about these things in detail during the course of the repair process here in Parliament. The fact that such a attitude does not call into question the media promotion control instrument in that country is obvious. This is, I believe, the third pillar of the Austrian media policy of this Federal Government, namely the attempt to bring as much of the Austrian media landscape as possible directly or indirectly under control by means of planned measures. For the printing media sector alone, 270 million Schilling are planned for press promotion in 1996. The press promotions at national level are not yet taken into account in this immense sum. As examples show, these promotions are strangely dealt with. For example, the "standard" is promoted, and it is seen that the promotion is likely to be used to give 75 000 copies every Sunday, while others – working at the border of lockdown – are not supported by newspapers and magazines. Successful print products are punished by ads and announcements, just because you think you have to re-evaluate. It drives beautiful flowers – I stay with the example of the "standard" that I have shown: A pressed newspaper brings 75 000 copies every Sunday, while others, such as the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', are too successful and because of a few 100,000 s more advertising revenue, no longer receive funding in millions of heights. It is also very funny in Vorarlberg. Mr. Russ, editor of the Vorarlberger Nachrichten, operates a very successful sheet, which is no longer eligible for funding due to the high advertising volume. However, he holds a second newspaper, namely the "New Vorarlberger", which allows him to tarry between the successful leaf and the leaf he can easily lead, because in turn it receives press promotion. These are things that you can't see anymore today. The fact that the free weekly newspapers are still completely excluded from this redistribution, that they are only allowed to pay and do not come to the benefit of a press promotion, is also an injustice that cries out to the sky, and these small newspapers probably do not play a role in the power-political considerations of the government parties. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is only to be kept in mind that the EU has nothing against this political filler. This is also the case because such things play only in Austria with press promotion. But our newspaper market is so weak that it does not play a role in European competition anyway. This is the reason why the politically motivated filler horn can continue to pour out over expensive parts of the Austrian media landscape, with the success of the Federal Government in reporting. It is clear to us that the demand from us for the abolition of press promotion is a democratically questionable way. But that does not only the Federal Government, but also, interestingly, the Journalist Union, which says: With the abolition of press promotion, the Austrian media landscape would be handed over to high-capital foreign media groups – as if that had not been the case for a long time, regardless of this press promotion! If you look at the opinions from the healing print world, that is, from the newspapers independent of the press promotion on this question, you see that even those concerned think differently about these things, differently than the government parties try to play for us again and again. ==References====External links== January of this year written in a comment: "It is to be feared that those rulers who are responsible for the fact that in this country all that could only be remembered of media policy far away, that this is very much avoided, leads to a blatant misevaluation. These politicians, who fear action like the devil, will think that everything can remain the way it is. They cannot even be offended by such thoughts. After all, elections can still be won with the zero-problem battle call these days. You, the non-media politicians, are still wrong: At some point, they will have to recognise that some of the current competitive conditions in the newspaper market cannot be replaced by millions of heavy subsidies, which, before elections and also on other occasions, would certainly bear the title of'silence money'." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It should be considered when newspapers themselves call this kind of support for the Austrian press landscape "silence money", silence money from the government parties that issue hundreds of millions for this positive treatment, and which seems to be nothing too expensive for the whole thing. At the same time, by introducing an ORF-Proporz AG, an attempt is being made to eliminate the most successful popular desire in the history of Austria, the popular demand for radio broadcasting. 20 years after Hugo Portuguese has tried to ensure the independence of the ORF with this popular desire and the subsequent broadcasting law, the Federal Government is going the reverse way and wants to convert the ORF to Proporz AG and thus fully control it. – The ORF as Proporz AG with a Supervisory Board consisting of representatives of the Federal Government and the state governments. At a time when the ORF itself finds that it will have considerable difficulties to balance, this Federal Government is trying to make such an electronic "worker" newspaper out of public-law broadcasting, an electronic "AZ", which, despite all the press promotions, is more or less sloppy and no one really really goes away today. This Proporz AG is intended to pay the taxpayers by maintaining the sovereignty of fees by the ORF in today's form, with this duty being nothing but a television use tax. And the dual Austrian media landscape will ultimately not be prevented, even by the gentlemen on the government bank. This ORF will somehow be left to the fee payer, the taxpayer, the shareholder, the owner, you will be able to do this by this way. However, I would like to say that in principle we have nothing against the conversion of the ORF into a stock company, which is to open up new business areas to the ORF, in the sense of privatisation and not in the sense of a red and black Proporz AG, in which the owner has to bear all risks for this non-existent Austrian media policy. I don't know if anyone's been thinking about how the ORF should continue financially in the future. Multi-annual losses in the operating business are expected. Unfortunately, the trend is currently going in this direction. On the one hand, we have extremely declining advertising revenue – this development is also threatening – and on the other hand, a charge increase is not possible in view of the general burden that this government entails on the population. If we look today at what is happening in European competition, when we see which media giants are straight ahead of the market in the German-speaking area, then it must be assumed that the ORF will no longer be eligible for funding in this inflated form, as it is at present. I think the situation of the Austrian media landscape can be summarized as follows: The media policy in the National Council is set to zero, one cannot discuss these things here either, and one is still not prepared to install one's own media committee, although this would be very important: Media policy will simply be continued as an annex to the Constitutional Committee. The ORF has been converted to this Proporz AG, opening up and liberalisation will in no way take place, at least not officially concerning the country, at least not officially as far as those areas that are toangling the Austrian taxpayers. Behind the scenes of non-existent government media policy and parliamentarians, hectic operationality prevails in the areas of government parties. I believe that we can observe very closely how SPÖ and ÖVP will fall on this ever-growing cake of Austrian media society and industry. We note that even here the SPÖ is much wider than the People's Party. The People's Party is currently trying to install an Austrian cable network through the national electricity companies, which are mainly in the field of the impact of the ÖVP. We would then have a direct connection to an information network in all areas where electricity is available, through which television, teleshopping and so on can be operated. It is prepared in the background of official policy, but the SPÖ is much further in this regard. We note that a media group is being set on foot, which covers all areas of communication, starting from the information about entertainment, from advertising to mobile phone engagements and telecommunications. In the print field, both the "standard" and the "falter" have landed in the financial sphere of the SPÖ. With regard to the weekly newspaper "News" and "TV-Media", there are also similar rumors not to be muted. On the contrary: They're getting louder and louder. With the "Kronen Zeitung" and RTL, the negotiations of Bank Austria regarding the marketing of advertising windows are under way in the wake of a TV broadcaster for the Greater Vienna area, and after the revision of the Regional Radio Act, the private radios of Bank Austria and the "Kronen Zeitung" will be broadcast together. It is similar in the area Kabel TV Wien. And also in the advertising sector, the SPÖ-near Gewista has already taken over the external advertising area of the Progress Group. Also the largest advertising agency in Austria, the GGK of Hans Schmid, who is also responsible for the advertising of SPÖ, is clearly associated with the Chancellor's Party's environment, such as the monthly journals "Viennaner", "Wiener" and "Basta". This means that there is a high level of communication in the field of SPÖ, which can be attributed to Austria, which is proven to be media policy when it comes to the interests of the parties – but when it comes to the interests of media operators and media users in that country, it is tried to stifle all kinds of policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of the ORF into a Proporz-AG is a definitive process, because then, with ORF supervisory councils from SPÖ and ÖVP, one could prevent the ORF from becoming a serious competition for the party areas, and control the opening and the actual liberalisation of the market in such a way that the party political interests of the government parties can be benefited. What will happen in the German-speaking market is seen by observing the concentration of media giant CLT and Bertelsmann in Germany. There are eight TV channels, either directly or indirectly, which will also come into operation on the European or the Austrian market. It has sales expectations in the electronic media sector of around 35 billion schilling; compared with this, the ORF has around 9.5 billion schilling annual turnover. And in the print media sector alone from the group CLT/Ufa 140 billion Schilling sales are expected. – This is where the great "ritter" begins between Bertelsmann and Leo Kirch, who also develops huge activities in the field of digital television, which is now going to the stock exchange with the "Pro 7" station and expects revenues of up to 10 billion schilling to fill the "Kriegskasse in the field of the conquest of the electronic media landscape". I believe that the ORF can therefore automatically be expected to have a huge amount of escape in the field of advertising, television advertising. Last year alone, the reduction in television advertising in the ORF was 16.2 percent, although the total advertising volume has fallen by only 0.4 percent. Also in the radio sector, minus 6.6 percent of advertising revenue at the ORF is a prelude to times when the ORF in each federal state will face one or more private channels as competitors. I believe that urgent action must be taken in this regard, which must be directed in a different direction than it is currently planned by the Federal Government. I believe that, as a responsible parliamentarian, we are also responsible for the development of media operators and media consumers outside the Party's sphere of influence, we also have to deal with the communication age as a whole. The term "multimedia" means more than any innovation or a new product. Markets and opportunities arise, including for the Austrian advertising industry and for Austrian trade, which we must not overlook and for which we finally have the regulatory framework. Multimedia will be one of the largest and most important growth sectors in the future. I believe that local policy must also be pursued in this respect. Computer manufacturers, software houses, telecommunications companies, network operators, publishers, television and radio operators work together in this area in a variety of ways, create new products, create new markets, create new opportunities and are also looking for attractive locations. – Austria could be such. The contribution of our Federal Government to this is quite another: Due to the lack of framework conditions, the few producers from this area from Austria are still wandering, as the example Siemens shows. It operates site risk instead of location security. This is the contribution of the Federal Government to the multimedia age of the future! I think in Japan or in America you can look at other things. In Japan there is a national plan for the multimedia age with a time horizon until after 2010, and in the United States there is the Clinton Gore initiative that can mobilise enormous economic resources. In the meantime, we have only such a policy of prevention. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Meisinger shows the speaker a red card.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Look up to your colleague!]] . I know, unfortunately, one has only so rarely the opportunity to debate media politics, Mr President, that one has to break out of time discipline. From our point of view, the following steps are urgently needed for the future of media policy in our country: It is up to the State to create the conditions for the elimination of the radio monopoly of effective competition in our country, to establish a variety of services and providers in all media sectors, and to ensure that basic social services and thus general participation in the possibilities of information and communication technologies are maintained in the long term. The following steps should be taken from our point of view: Once again, the privatisation of the post is such that it can survive economically in European competition and, in the course of the privatisation of the post, the establishment of an Austrian Telekom. It is then necessary to transfer the ownership rights of the ORF's transmission facilities to these Telekoms so that they can also be used and leased by other media operators and entrepreneurs – of course against charges. We need to create here in the house in 1996 the introduction of the dual system of private and public service providers in the electronic media sector. It should also be discussed this year about the privatisation of "ORF 1" as a stock company, about the opening of all available frequencies for private television, also as regards the Austrian-wide private radio, and one would have to "fix" the regional radio, namely the transmission distribution not to the federal states, but to the possible broadcasting range, and auction the broadcasting frequencies in order to allow competition in the award. As regards the financing of the ORF, it can be said that it would be urgently necessary to remove the level of fees in the current form, as well as the introduction of a pay TV or perview pay system, advertising fees, the exemption of the advertising and announcement charge, the promotion of public procurement in the field of education and culture, a new frequency-use plan which should not be lacking in minority protection, i.e. a departitization of the media policy as a whole. As far as press promotion is concerned, it must be said that there is a need to set aside resources, to abolish press promotion in the current form and to reclassify funds into structural improvement measures such as the promotion of distribution cooperatives. These would be urgently necessary in Austria. It is also intended to provide additional support for the training of journalists, including university initiatives and teaching editors, as well as interest-privileged loans for re-founding and repositioning of print media in the country and, above all, the abolition of the advertising and announcement levy. The following would be particularly important for this House, ladies and gentlemen: the establishment of a media committee in Parliament – with the objectives of liberalising the Austrian media landscape and creating the foundations for the communication location Austria, including the necessary technical, economic and legal conditions. Only if there is self-confidence here in the House, if the Federal Government is to take control of the media policy and take action itself – an initiative for it would be to set up a media committee – will we be able to prepare Austria half in time for what is happening to us in the near future in the development of media policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6386	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6407	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The start of the 1996/1997 budgetary negotiations gives me the opportunity to present once again the basic budgetary, economic, financial and structural intentions of the Federal Government. In the budgets we are presenting to you, ladies and gentlemen, we attach great importance to achieving not only the necessary budgetary consolidation success, but also that we should do everything possible to achieve an offensive employment, structural and social policy for the future in our country in parallel, at the same time and evenly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At the same time, we are in line with the European objective of creating a common European currency within the framework of the European Union and of working together at European level on employment and structural policies. This complexity is particularly important because, as a national government and as a national legislator, we do not lose the autonomous responsibility for our resources, because we also have to oppose the occasionally suggested submission of this responsibility to Brussels. We do not do this – we do not want to do it either, we should not, however, take advantage of the possibilities of the European dimension, of European cooperation, and this will be necessary at an age when global competition and global competition will no longer make jobs in Austria as secure as it may have been five or ten years ago. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We belong to the countries which are the first in the European Union to recognise these needs. We – the two government parties together – have therefore prepared timely measures. While there is a growing talk of "Ally for Work", we have de facto and pragmatically guided the "Work for the Future" programme. We have included these principles in the guidelines of the Federal Government in preparing our contribution to the European Union's intergovernmental conference, and these principles have been incorporated into the mandate for Foreign Ministers to challenge the Intergovernmental Conference. We are not talking about an economic programme, which can still be based and relied on deficit-spending. We have developed new financing models, such as the closure of motorway gaps, such as the creation of high-performance lines for the Austrian Federal Railways or for telecommunications. We, ladies and gentlemen, have prepared and presented an additional programme for investment in the Austrian environmental requirements, which alone in the calendar year 1996 accounts for 1 billion schilling in addition to the water industry and 1 billion in addition for the period 1996/1997 for the old- load renovation. And 800 million Schillings have been agreed on fixed targets of energy tax revenue for investments in district heating, the environment and energy-saving measures. We have also made available the so-called technology billions for the Innovation and Technology Fund from the privatisation proceeds for research and development and future projects. We have agreed, ladies and gentlemen, that political discussions have already taken place, that the major and important issue of apprenticeship training, professional training is being prepared in parallel with new considerations and new ways in the liberalisation of trade regulations at government and social partners level. Such processing dates have already been set. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] At present, an important, large, new Austrian model of working time is being negotiated – and I hope that a model of annual working time will be negotiated in the construction industry and in the construction sector, which will be used to better distribute work in the construction industry over the year, but which will also serve to relieve labour market service budgets, and which will serve to share the capacities of our construction industry more evenly than it has been in the past. I would add, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a need for important social partnership contributions, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side, because we cannot understand new and future working time models simply in such a way that workers do not give up overtime supplements and incomes, and that employers simply recover their incomes from their business, just to meet the motto that is modern today, namely by turning back incomes into competitiveness. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we did, we would actually talk about a depreciation spiral of our standard of living, and we could never win a race with Latin American, South East Asian or East Asian competitors, but – I say this very consciously – on the employer side as well as on the employee side. The conditions for this are not bad, because we need not only to read the reduced forecasts in the economic reports, but also to take into account the fact that we currently have a historically low rate of inflation in Austria that we currently have a very low level of interest rates for investment, that we are introducing additional competitiveness due to many programmes agreed in the economy on the employers' and employees' side to reduce costs. It should also be noted at this point that – often disregarded by a wider public – company owners, employers and works councils agreed to do so if the business is temporarily taking place, the business is not as satisfactory as it used to be, at their own costs – personnel costs and others. The Austrian economy – both on the employer's side and on the employee's side – is well aware of the task it has ahead; and – I say again – this is not a matter that fills headlines, but here we soon have a very good, pragmatic, practical model of job security for the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving in these days and in these weeks – I have a great deal of understanding of this in view of this difficult political work that we have to deal with, even in view of the time pressure under which this work is being done – the relationship between the Federal Government and the High House, that is, the principle of separation of power. The principle of separation of violence, as has already been said at the speaker's desk today, is an instrument against the abuse of power. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you, on behalf of the Federal Government, that we are aware, in the sign of a continuing successful and good cooperation with the High House on this subject and the issue. However, on behalf of the work that we have to do, I must ask you to understand that we have to take this procedure – not only because we are under pressure from time, but also because it is about the plausibility of the measures – that plausibility does not get through time shifts – because it is about the speed of implementation, and because what we decide here is financial policy and structural policy, also affects external systems and back-up – that is, impact on foreign markets, impact on the economic climate and impact on the investment climate. We've just got into all of this. Areas of positive censorship, both for the creation of the package and for the implementation of the package. But, ladies and gentlemen, as Members have already referred to it today and have already said this before, it is not a question of working through large volumes of files in a few days, but of also dealing with fundamental questions: You have me on your side to discuss these fundamental questions with you and to proceed with other methods in future cases. I would also like to take account of the fact that the Federal Government had no plausible and no suitable alternatives to this procedure. That is, it is true when the question has been raised here: How does our democracy continue in the future? How do we deal with political culture, how do we deal with each other as an expression of political culture? Allow me to make just a few comments. We will certainly be very closely examined and challenged in this area in the next few weeks and months. There are almost all agreed that there are many restrictions on access to self-employment, access to the various authorisation procedures, authorisation procedures and procedures for access to self-employment, the establishment of a company, the establishment of a company, and restrictions on access, both national and local authorities, and also certain restrictions on access at chamber level. It will not be enough, ladies and gentlemen, to take a political decision here and say that it will be because all these procedures are based on legal provisions. This means that we have to go into the legal regulations in order to create easier conditions for investors, for the founders of companies, for the young people who want to make themselves independent et cetera. And, of course, in this three-stage structure, we will quickly reach a point where we have to compare which legal goods are strengthened by simplification and which legal goods and whether, at all events, legal goods are weakened or eliminated by simplification. – Thus, profound political discussions that we will have to lead. At the same time, however, I say - also per federal government and per government - that, ladies and gentlemen, for example, our regulations on EU matters and the possibilities and potentials of the advanced National Council's main committee cannot be compared to any EU country. In other words: In no other of the 14 EU countries, Parliaments are so close to the Federal Government, to decisions and also to the scope for action that our ministers have in important negotiations within the framework of the European Union. I would ask us not to do this as a counter-account, but to do so. I mention another example: We are currently faced with many complaints – probably justified complaints – in the face of economic development, but also in the face of other events, about shortcomings in Austrian insolvency law. In other words, We currently have an insolvency right, which – a little simplified – makes the continuation of companies in difficulty more difficult. The application and prior notification periods within which rehabilitation programmes can be adopted are considered too short; the creditor's privileges are questioned critically and so on. We have therefore undertaken – the Minister of Justice is already working very concretely on this project – to innovation Austrian insolvency law. But now the expert opinions in which direction this is to be innovative are very, very different, very, very, very different. We have had a debate on this today, and the Minister of Justice is of the opinion - and I believe he is right - that before autumn, before the end of this year, the assessment of the renewal of insolvency rights will not be opened, but not because it is so cumbersome, but because the opinions that have been expressed are so divergent. We therefore have a very specific problem that we have to solve: on the one hand, legal certainty and on the other hand the time pressure to bring about changes very soon in order not to hinder insolvency companies in difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also an opportunity today to make a comment on the attitude of the Federal Government to the legal protection of citizens. It is the present structural adjustment law that is a huge act that has changed almost 100 laws, including constitutional provisions. Now it is said that it must be the legal protection of the citizen. We, the Federal Government, are planning to ensure the administrative jurisdiction and its proper functioning in such a way that national administrative courts are set up to discharge the Administrative Court. This can certainly not happen from today to tomorrow, but should be done to further strengthen the legal protection. We also work on the very extensive work of recodification of the Austrian federal constitution. It is intended to make our Constitutional Rules more transparent – a common reputation – and to contribute to transparency and provide citizens with a single instrument of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an ambitious project, which we will begin with the House, and there is hardly any other European country that has undergone such work, lastly Switzerland; as I hear, in a ten-year period, but it is still not finished. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is to say, this federal government is not, as has been said, a sloppy way of dealing with the rule of law, but rather a very high degree of latte, it has set itself the goal of a very ambitious project. On the subject of security, ladies and gentlemen: For several years, the Austrian Federal Government has been representing the approach of an extended, comprehensive security concept – and not the concept of merely narrowly defined military security. It is the fight against environmental hazards and, in particular, the dangers of organised crime, nuclear accidents, sliders, mafia practices, protection money drivers et cetera at least as important as the alleged achievement of major military security objectives. I also recall that Austria has notified the amendment of the nuclear-friendly passages in the Euratom Treaty as a theme for the Intergovernmental Conference, and we have incorporated all these attitudes and principles into our key request, in our guidelines for the Intergovernmental Conference. Ladies and gentlemen! On the Kurdish policy in general, there will still be a lot of opportunity to talk about it and discuss it today. We have been following a line in Austria for years, which has brought us international recognition in the country of security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This principle is to allow groups of people who are persecuted in their country to seek a peaceful political solution to conflicts. This also applies to the people of the Kurds. At the same time, however, we have never accepted that civil wars are carried to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But now they shoot at each other!]] And I think that is the point. Therefore, the activities of these groups are closely monitored by the security authorities, and, as honourable Members Kostelka have already said today, they are being pursued with all the necessary means when they leave the rule of law and freedom of violence. It is precisely the judgement against the Kurdish activists that this is also a success. Furthermore, we are here in contrast to some European countries and in agreement with other European countries. ERNK offices exist not only in Austria, but also in Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Greece, Italy, Norway, Finland and Sweden. So it's probably not that bad that the line we represent here is not that bad. Ladies and gentlemen! We also had to devote ourselves to the issue of insurance for works contracts in the media sector. It was critically noted here that we were giving support to a so-called newspaper sar – I think that was the word. It is the newspaper publisher's association, i.e. all, who came to me, among other things, to exclude the sales staff of daily and weekly newspapers, which are employed on the basis of works contracts, from the social insurance obligation. And the decision taken by the House last week took account of this wish. We thus provide support for all the daily newspapers and all the weekly newspapers you can buy at Kiosk. If you confess to the diversity of opinion in the print media, you will also be able to confess. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the conclusion of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the Lentia Information Society. The European Court of Human Rights declared in November 1993 that the ORF's send monopoly as the strongest intervention in the freedom of expression guaranteed in accordance with Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights was illegal. In the meantime, the Regional Radio Act has been passed and brought into force by this House. As you know, two private programme organizers in the federal states of Styria and Salzburg have already been broadcast, and it is therefore no longer because the Constitutional Court has repealed § 2 of the Regional Radio Act and eight broadcasting licences. In any case, in the field of radio, it can be assumed that a conventional condition is produced. The repair is already in preparation. In the field of television, legislation is being worked out, and the two government parties have agreed to submit this new regulation to the House for decision-making this evening. Mr Meischberger, in the debate, complained that he had too little information on this whole matter of the future design of the media. I can only say here after his word is spoken. He doesn't have enough information, he can't have at all, because this fireworks of nonsense that was burned down here is really remarkable. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is polemics from the government bank!]] Perhaps we can discuss what you have said here, perhaps even alphabetically, so that you know what you've been talking about here, from RTL, Bank Austria and much more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, today Dr. Haider has once again reached the top of absurdities by speaking of continuous influences on my part on the ORF, probably according to the motto: Something's gonna hang up. If you have meant that at a certain "press hour" this or that journalist was present or not, I note that it is open to everyone – you and me and everyone else – to participate in a "press hour" or not to participate. The ORF is not a judicial or police institution that can invite or quote a "press hour" politician. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They're looking for it!]] Moreover, it is remarkable that you turn your attitude toward the ORF, whose lawyer I am not, as you just need it. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why?]] Once you defend his position – in the attack on me you have said that poor ORF is impelled by evil Vranckky – but on the other hand, you want to abolish him the way he is. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The monopoly of the ORF! You have to understand that!]] And the most touching ridiculous thing has happened to you today with your winery Lamento over the "Kaisermühlen Blues". That's ridiculous! Next time you will accuse Hofmannsthal that the good company is not with the FPöller and that the fat cousin has a blue scarf or something. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ha, ha! Very funny!]] Dr. Haider! Each of these shows is made by authors, by composers, by directors, by actors. If you make yourself here in the High House and say that someone is to practice censorship about it, which films are filmed there, which texts are written, which songs are to be sung, then you are still on the line of your blue posters, on which you have made artists on which you have named free people in Austria. That's how the election went out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The choice has also gone out, because in a country in which a person who has political influence would also be able in the future to detonate right-wing people on posters, the majority of Austria does not want to live. You should take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But of course you then got serious again and accused me of having been on a sports ground and having eaten a semitrailer and had no jurisdiction to do so. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] According to federal constitution and not according to the Federal Ministry Act – but according to the right of a free person to go to the sports ground and eat a semi-trailer! And then you talked about the GDR. Even in the GDR, people have been allowed to eat semitrailers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of the press in Austria does not work in such a way that the Federal Chancellor distributes generous money from a treasure to newspapers that he has received, and to others who are not accepted of him, but – perhaps one must repeat this sometimes – the media promotion is based on a law, which was not made elsewhere than here in the House, in 1985. And this law states that a separate Commission, namely the Press Promotion Commission, decides on the applications received for daily and weekly support. This press promotion commission consists of four representatives of the social partners – two trade unionists, two editors – then a representative of the Press Club Concordia and a representative of the Federal Chancellery – one! – and all six elect a seventh member of the Commission as chairman. The Commission is preparing a report on the eligibility of the various printing works. This funding report is received by the Austrian Federal Government and, if it considers it to be correct and good, is taken to the decision. That's press promotion. The Austrian Federal Government has never amended, rejected or rejected a report of this Audit Committee. These are the facts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are also building up – you have done so many times, and you could actually go to the agenda; but it is so dangerous that I go into it again and again – your political arguments always insist that, for example, in the cultural policy of the competent Federal ministers, the commemorative celebrations for RAF terrorists are held in the Burgtheater. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only simply false, but it would also be a disastrous element of our democracy, we would simply leave it in conflict. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was at the Academy Theatre!]] Dr. Haider! Their freedom seems to end where you are not pleased, and therefore you take advantage of such methods and methods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is the Academy Theatre not part of the Burgtheater anymore?]] And by the way, so that I can correct it – and I hope to serve you with this information: A RAF commemorative celebration was not planned and is not planned either. This is not a programme point of the Austrian Burgtheater. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the government bank!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the next few days we will start discussions at the level of the Federal Government with the rectors, professors and assistants at the Austrian universities, and it will not be a question of discussing with them the consolidation package – that is decided thing – but it will be a matter of opening up a new access to each other by the Austrian Federal Government and the representatives of the Austrian universities, to which it has obviously not or has only failed in recent years. I am concerned that we explain our university life, research, teaching not only as a technique, but as an essential part of the immaterial goods of our society. We will make the greatest effort in the Austrian Federal Government to lead this dialogue, which, of course, must be a deeper and a wider one, and to achieve reasonable results. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would say that this dialogue is not appropriate to the question of the introduction of tuition fees: yes or no? It is also important to ensure that the Community's policies are closely linked to the development of the internal market and to the development of the internal market. This is not at all a qualitative approach to future higher education policy. If you talk about financing issues, you might as well talk about it. But the money must not be a method of restricting access for students at the Austrian universities. That is why this can only be one aspect that will be carefully examined for the future. But those who believe that with the dramatic introduction of tuition fees that I still have because there is no equivalent, are mistaken in solving university problems. These discussions will not be conducted in this way either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary in a parliamentary plenary discussion, and I should like to thank you, especially you from the government groups, because I have some expectations in your voting behaviour, for having been under great pressure with us in this difficult work. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want to be there too!]] [[Abg. Koppler: President of the Court of Auditors!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have thus done a job which will give us a certain margin of relief in our future political action, in our future political activities to shape the future of our country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Elbow is good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Mr Hazelsteiner, you can also refer to it differently. I can only tell you that I've been working on construction, and it's very good if, if you take up something serious, you can give the elbows to the side, otherwise you can't lift it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will discuss this extensive work – I have given you some examples today – with you, ladies and gentlemen, very detailed and very intensive. We will also focus on the European dimension and our future membership in relation to a new dimension in European cooperation, and we will also strive in this direction. I thank you for the work you have done so far and invite you, the Austrian Federal Government, to be available for our projects and drafts in the future. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6741	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has now been reported on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6762	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In view of the discussion on the 1996 and 1997 budgets, let me take two parts out of the Federal Chancellery chapter: the European Union and the aid for Eastern Europe. Given the limited discussion time available to us, tomorrow I will address the issues of the European Union in more detail in the discussion on the chapter on foreign policy. I would like to focus today on aid for Eastern Europe, in particular because, given the forthcoming debate on the enlargement of the European Union to Eastern Europe and the tenth anniversary of Chernobyl's nuclear accident, it is essential to deal with essential aspects that are closely related to Austria's anti-atomic policy. It is a pleasure that after a low level in 1995, aid for Eastern Europe will again be increased in 1996 and 1997. It is planned for 116 and 143 billion schilling in these two years. However, it must be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen, that in view of the necessary resources for economic assistance and also assistance to improve the environmental situation in Eastern Europe, these amounts can only be a drop on the hot stone. It must also be of particular concern to us to raise the awareness of the European Union that it is increasingly providing funds for Eastern Europe to improve the economic and environmental situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellery also has coordination competence on all nuclear issues under the Federal Ministry Act, and it is to be thanked to the Federal Chancellor that he was able to gain excellent Austrian and international scientists in support of Austrian politics with the installation of the Forum for Nuclear Questions and the financial security of this forum. It is especially thanks to these scientists for their commitment to these questions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of the tasks of the Federal Chancellor's Office is to help the East states get out of nuclear energy and to support them in their efforts to lock up and safely dispose of existing nuclear power plants. However, this also means that the supply of these countries with alternative energy forms or the support of these countries is being forced in the event of appropriate energy saving measures. Therefore, this exit aid, Mr. Bundeskanzler, should also be an essential contribution from Austria to the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference and also a focus of the Austrian EU Presidency in 1998. At present, efforts are under way around the Krško nuclear power plant. In Slovenia a referendum against the Krško nuclear power plant is to be held, which requires 40 000 signatures. When this vote is achieved, the Federal Chancellery of Slovenia intends to support the relinquishing of Krško with appropriate exit aid. Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, however, Krško is only half of Slovenia. The other half belongs to Croatia, and Croatia, as well as Slovenia, prefers to lock this nuclear power plant today than tomorrow. It's on an earthquake line, so it's particularly dangerous. Croatia, however, has lost all the other power plants on the border with Bosnia as a result of the war events of recent years. For me, therefore, it raises the question of what initiatives the Federal Chancellery has taken in the meantime in order to engage in discussions with Croatia and also to move Croatia to abandon this nuclear power plant. There will also be a request from my group, particularly by the Members of the Federal States of Styria and Carinthia, which will go in this direction. I should like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, to take this opportunity and to take this opportunity with both neighbouring countries – I know that Croatia is not an immediate neighbouring country; it is not here now; it always corrects me when I say so, but it is in the immediate vicinity of our country – to start negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Three other nuclear power plants in the immediate vicinity of the Austrian border are quite rightly employed by the Austrians. The reports we hear about Temelin are particularly disturbing to the Upper Austrians. If you read newspapers today, you can see that a disaster plan has already been drawn up in Upper Austria, that the issue of nuclear safety law has not been clarified, especially in the Czech Republic, and in particular the Czech Environment Minister has repeatedly stressed that it is only when Temelin is in force in the Czech Republic and can thus be guaranteed the greatest possible degree of safety. However, there is no absolute safety at nuclear power stations, as has been shown by the shocking events of recent years. That is why I am particularly concerned about the reports we have heard about the Mochovce nuclear power plant and its completion in recent days, in particular the amount to be spent on it. The 1.2 billion D-Mark for this purpose is far from sufficient, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve even close safety standards that meet Western safety standards. The Germans know that. It is all the more incomprehensible to me that a world group like Siemens is taking such a risk and that a nuclear power plant has been completed whose sister nuclear power plant was not completed in Greifswald because, according to West German calculations, the amount required would have been four times, which shows that the appropriate safety cannot be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the pictures we have seen in the last few days about Chernobyl, we must be particularly concerned about this. Mochovce and Bohunice are within a radius of 120 kilometres of Vienna. About 150 kilometres from Mochovce, there are major cities of Budapest, Bratislava and Vienna, a population of about 10 million people is directly threatened. If you, ladies and gentlemen, saw the television broadcast on Chernobyl last night and the consequences, you can imagine what would threaten our children in a similar accident in our region. I had the opportunity to visit Chernobyl two years ago, in my time as Minister of Environment, Chernobyl, and as a leader I had an employee of the Ukrainian Environment Minister, who used to be a technician in the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, not a nuclear opponent, and the one who had been serving in the said disaster night. If the population is not allowed to live in a radius of 30 kilometres at all and is still relocated within a radius of far more than 100 kilometres today, ten years after that, for which 10 percent of the Ukrainian gross domestic product has to be spent, then, I believe, one can determine how expensive nuclear power can become. It has affected us, all those whom we have waged an honest and intense fight against Mochovce, that you, Mr Bundeskanzler – unfortunately he is no longer here now – when you received the honorary doctorate in Bratislava a few weeks ago, did not take the opportunity to have a corresponding discussion about this problem so hot for Austria. Federal Chancellor! That was a blow to the face of all Austrians who are rightly concerned about the future of their children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Good neighborhood, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean getting under the carpet, but good neighborhood means talking to each other and finding solutions. It is therefore important not to give up the fight against the commissioning of the Mochovce nuclear power plant. Austria has also built a nuclear power plant, completed it, but not put into operation – and it was good that way. We will therefore have to initiate all diplomatic efforts and also take Slovakia's application for accession to the EU to discuss them. I therefore believe that it is very important to put in place some decisive measures in the international field at all. I should like to refer briefly to the International Liability Convention, the Paris Protocols and the Vienna IAEA Protocols, which are insufficient and have not yet been signed by Austria, because the limits of liability apply exclusively to producers and do not include sufficient limits of liability, which are always only for the benefit of producers and do not allow the population to be affected. I therefore believe that Austria should very quickly adopt a proper, modern nuclear liability law, because the existing one is from the time of Zwentendorf, and therefore should also have a corresponding role model for Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to ask the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular, to take the Intergovernmental Conference and the Presidency of the Council in 1998 to re-examine the question of Euratom, to clarify the form in which this Treaty could be changed, and to make it clear that Austria must make financial resources flow into renewable energies in Eastern Europe in order to enable a real exit from nuclear power in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6905	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e6926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! I would like to join in my contribution to the statements made by Mr Bundeskanzler, who expressed very remarkable thanks to the two government groups. In fact, I believe that this thanks are very legitimate, but less for parliamentary work in the legislative sense, but rather for the silence that the two government groups show when we look at what has been promised to this Parliament in the light of the Constitution in these last few weeks and days. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We can rest assured that this federal government has lost four very central values of our constitution, if not in violation of it. You clearly failed at least to comply with the principle of separation, because you have clearly failed to comply with the minimum standards imposed on the legislative work of a Parliament in a reduced parliamentaryism. Secondly, I believe that you have permanently violated the principle of level building of the legal order, because, according to purely opportuneity criteria, you have raised a matter to the two-thirds' lives, to the constitutional level and, if it fits you, to the subject. In any case, compliance with the level of the legal order cannot be spoken of. Thirdly, They have violated the rule of law. It is a general rule of law not to adopt retroactive standards. They do it out of pure opportunity and thus violate the rule of law. Fourth: They infringe our fundamental rights system if, in turn, you arbitrarily, but consciously and politically, with the help of the two-thirds legislation, you cut off the right path to the Constitutional Court of Justice by means of the two-thirds legislation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the finding! For this, thank you from the Federal Chancellor. But I understand. But let's look at things a little more closely! The Federal Chancellor, in his thanks, has also made it possible to say that this is an extraordinary situation, and the time pressure is very great. The international situation also appeared, and that is why this procedure was necessary, namely as a sort of crisis management, the Federal Chancellor said. I am not asking myself what the causes of these crises are, which is the reason for this pace that has been demonstrated. This federal government had almost a decade's time for many of these things, which are now being staged in a very radical way, in a husch-pusch-procedure. It has been spent years, and now one makes out of need a virtue and says that now all this must be flashy. On all the key points that make it difficult for us, you have remained guilty of reform since many budget debates, and that is why we are now in this situation. It is also impossible to say that you have actually put structural reforms on the table. My first accusation is, my Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed to meet the minimum standard of parliamentary legislative procedure. Then: In any legislative procedure, in every constitutional life – of political culture – it can only be so that Parliament leaves the material laws and, on this basis, a budget with the legally binding expenditure, with discretionary powers and all these things is created more. Ladies and gentlemen! It was exactly the other way round in the past few weeks and days that we were confronted with. The Federal Government has implied to this Parliament that it will adopt all that it has brought together in laws in a single legislative act. This actually put the legislative procedure provided for in our Constitution on the head. On the occasion of a budget creation, a rage of almost 100 laws was passed, and that in a single legislative act with many materials, of which – normally and not only according to Austrian standards, but also according to international criteria – many would have been of course worth dealing with in particular, in a committee or even in a subcommittee. But the whole thing has been packed into a package and presented to this House. Then it was carried out here in the already highly criticised procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! This kind of collective legislation reminds me of medieval Reichstag relations, where there was a March field and a November field, where you came together twice a year to create justice, and then you split up again. I fear that this government will taste to do the same, and I will say: That's wonderful, so do we. Once a year everything is created and done, Parliament then has the whole thing to swallow, and that is what it already has to do with the legislation. However, I think that this is a clear violation of the principle of separation of violence and of a violation of the parliamentary system of government. We will certainly not give this our consent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also look at what actually happened in practice. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has said that there have been very many important laws that have now been passed on key issues. Just so that you can see how things actually pass by Parliament, a few examples: We have been listening for many weeks to a 30-billion package that the municipality of Vienna would have tied with the federal government. I wonder sometimes: Who is the one doing the budget? In a "Kurier" article of these days, it was about to read these 30 billion – and that is really revealing –: Key secret negotiations with Minister Viktor Klima were under way in the Ministry of Finance. As the "Kurier" reported exclusively at the beginning of the week, the same way accepts the rapid expansion of the S-Bahns and also the extensions of the subways, but the southern passage he likes less and so on. I now ask you – and this question is addressed to both government groups: Is it really the Minister of Finance who decides what is happening in the transport policy in this case in the central region of Vienna? Is he the one who decides on the tap, what happens and what does not happen? This is a typical example. This is about 30 billion, and we are very often talking about very minimal amounts in the budget negotiations! There are simply 30 billion defined, and this leads to a private battle between the mayor who is in the election campaign, and the ex-transport minister, the Finance Minister of the past, and they are making the policy. Parliament looks at, budgets – or what does it do? None of them, because things are happening at our doorstep. It's very similar with the Bundesbahnen. That's 60 billion. Here in Parliament, there was a speech of 60 billion – a huge issue! – from a financial planning for the Bundesbahnen. Of course, nothing has been dealt with and decided on here. There is a nice example: In the last few weeks and days, I have heard continuously with militaryly pointed ear of various offensives: Employment offensives, environmental offensives. Every day, an offensive is rolling across us, huge amounts are called, 90 billion schilling are to be invested, and the labour market is to be mobilised. I'm just wondering: Are those 90 billion schilling additions? But then I wonder: Are we in a savings budget discussion, or what is actually happening here? Is it just a summing up of existing budget amounts that one bundles propagandistic, media-actively, packages the media present? What's going on? You see it very clearly: Central political things are happening outside Parliament, essentially from a media point of view, propagandistically prepared, and the eyes are closed. Anyway, I can't recognize a serious budgeting at all. One last example, something that upsets me up to the blood: In a discussion several times we have found that the bonus malus system is counterproductive with the 50 years. The opposition has said it, some government representative has said it, but it was a package, and it has been pushed through. But now we have to be told by the public that it is absolutely counterproductive. But this Parliament has not been able, although there are enough people, including in the government groups, who have opposed this nonsense, which makes people over 50 years of age more difficult to live on the labour market and does not make it easier to stop. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to expressly appeal to the colleague Hostash – she is kind enough – to do something about it. Mrs. Colleague! You are sitting here in Parliament, at the same time you are a leading representative of the Chamber of Workers, and you have worked meritfully in connection with this bonus malus system and position yourself as a representative of interest. However, here in Parliament you lend your voice to this inconsistency. That's so sad! This leads to a denaturation of parliamentarism. I believe that this conflict of interest, which you personally express, would be resolved in such a way that top officials of interests, i.e. the social partners, are not sitting in Parliament. This is precisely what leads to misdevelopments: that you now agree to a law matter whose content you reject. This is bad parliamentaryism – and that is also bad social partnership! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My second allegation is that you are in breach of the rule of law. I really think it is a sign that the clubman of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Kostelka, said today in his contribution that he does not understand the excitement for the two-thirds majority at all, because at the end of the day we would be parliamentarians of the Constitutional Officers and it would be possible – one must remember that, he really said so! – with all these points you decide here with your two-thirds majority to further develop our constitution. In this long list of structural adjustment laws with the many two-thirds of the legislation, it is not a point that could really be seen as a further development of our basic law, our constitution. On the contrary: There are all things where the political cause of course lies elsewhere! What is it about? – It is simply and simply about the fact that with two-thirds of the majority who are also an exceptional situation internationally – there is almost nowhere – nothing else is being persecuted, but the possibility that the two government parties can give each other a veto. The aim is to prevent the fact that, if possible, one of the two groups, including social partners, may have a different majority in this House. That is the historical reason why the school laws have been proven by two-thirds of a majority and why there are 800 constitutional provisions in our constitutional law, of which only a fraction would be justified to actually be in a constitution. That's the reality! That is why I say that it is purely arbitrary that two-thirds of the majority simply raise legal matter in the constitutional order in order to have this veto right. It is no longer a question of complying with the principle of our constitution, the ranking of our legal sources. The next allegation follows, which is the legal principle. Reactive laws are considered a sin in all legal systems, and you commit them. But you commit another sin, and this is the last accusation I'm making to you. With your two-thirds majority, you are pursuing the clear goal of cutting the way for citizens to the Constitutional Court. It's in the center of the scandal! The practice is old, it is not new, as a speaker has said today. It has even been the case that, on the basis of a finding by the Constitutional Court, in which it has seen something unconstitutional, this coalition has made hastening efforts to correct the Constitutional Court by means of a two-thirds majority decision, even to disable it. That's worse in itself! But for me, the scandal is at the heart of the scandal of excluding the constitutional control of the Constitutional Court by a parliamentary majority. This is a very clear abuse of constitutional law – at the expense of legal protection, at the expense of our rule of law, at the expense of the fundamental rights of citizens, to have access to the law, right up to the Constitutional Court! This is the only motive for many two-thirds majority decisions that you take: to actually strike the rule of law. And that is what Mr Kostelka calls a further development of our constitution! This is white cock! Finally, I say everything seriously: This great coalition, which is called a new one, is a danger to our constitutional culture; it operates the erodement of our parliamentary democracy and the degradation of our fundamental rights. This danger stands as reality in space. I would reply to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for his thanks, which he did not address to the opposition, but to the government parties. But to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I would like to appeal to you, I would like to draw your attention: All these conditions are only possible because you agree. We therefore remain only in favour of the public, of the citizens of this country, not to give their consent to this sluggish constitutional breakdown, but to reject it. We will do everything we can to hinder this constitutional development through the great coalition, correct it where it goes. In any case, we will not go along on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7089	Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7111	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I have listened with great interest to the comments made by Mr Frischenschlager. In my mind, in times that have been behind me for some time, in times when I was still at the university. It was a clear lecture on the Constitution, and I thank you for You yourself have shown the difference between the written constitution, the constitution, and the constitutional reality. There it went from the separation of violence to the construction of the legal system. There were even comparisons that reminded me of the Germanic legislation, the thing. Mr President, if you would support me, it has really been a long time since the law was called Wapnatak and Stapsakôn – that was twice a year, and there you have come together to deal with certain matters. It has, as you yourself have said, passed the need for action in order to reach and gain a margin of action, and now it has been time to act. How long – my question to you – would you have approved us to discuss and to see how funding needs grow? But now on women's matters, I wanted to express myself. Two prominent votes beyond daily policy and their assessment of the extent to which gender equality has so far been successful. Two sociologists, Elisabeth Beck-Gernsheim and Ulrich Beck, believe that in the life of young women new spaces have opened up in comparison to the generation of their mothers, namely in the fields of law, education, sexuality, but also in terms of professional standing. However, the two sociologists also note that these spaces are socially unsecured and suspect that - and now I quote literally - "all the previous conflicts were still harmonious and the phase of the conflict of the sexes is just ahead". In fact, the role of women has changed significantly. This is reflected in the increased participation in education, in the higher employment rate and in the greater economic independence of women. Despite these positive aspects, which are clearly present, being a woman in the working world still means lower income, lower tax bases, interrupted careers, lower insurance periods. The consequences are lower pensions and lower social benefits. In addition, being a woman in the working world means higher unemployment. Woman in the family world still means sole competence for family work, for consumption and for care work. Women have a longer total working day and they also do most of the unpaid work. Why?, we have to ask ourselves. And we have to repeat this question over and over again: Where is the fair distribution of goods where the fair distribution of services and charges? We must also ask ourselves why the stage of the conflict is just ahead. This is the case because women are only starting to use their freedom of choice in all areas of social life, including and especially in the family. But these efforts face a very strong wind, which can only be maintained in the interests of women when private and political solutions go hand in hand. If women are left alone in the enforcement of their rights in private, i.e. their rights as spouses, as educators, as nurses, the status quo is cemented. The so-called privacy is precisely the border at which equal rights and freedom of choice have ended. However, in order not to fail at the private's border, in order not to conceal the advantages of the one - the lower part of the population, the men - and to cover the disadvantages of the other, the women, and to regard them as being highly private, there must be a further development of the matrimonial and family law, in a concrete step towards the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1974, i.e. for 22 years, the partnership marriage has been enshrined in the law and after that both partners have to contribute to the management of the budget, taking account of their professional burden. – What the practice looks like is known. There are recent figures from the Central Statistical Office that show that the ratio of employment to domestic work among men is 70 percent to 30 percent, of course in favour of employment, while women are exactly the opposite, 31 percent to 69 percent. For childcare, self-employed men need six to eleven minutes a day and senior employees and officials 16 minutes. Of course, statisticians also questioned: Does the employment of women affect the division of work in the family? And they conclude that the division of labour is not affected at all or is only a negligible part. At least at a time when more than half of all women who have a child, 65 percent, are employed. As a result, the concrete step must be to expressly declare domestic work, education and care work as joint tasks of the partners. The key to such a process would be the unilateral distribution of the burden and obligations of one: poorer opportunities for women in the labour market, poorer insurance status and poorer pay. The relationship between education, training and training and opportunities on the labour market is also obvious. This connection becomes clear when looking at the unemployment rates of recent years. However, the acquisition of skills requires time, and this time is not available for women with families. However, this reduces the chances of re-qualifications or re-training into other sectors. This situation often makes it difficult for women to access or return to the more secure full-time jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! What about the atypical working hours, the atypical working conditions, the much-priced part-time for women, the employment rate to the low level of poverty, where there is or should be an enormous urge, because at least only 2% of men are employed there, but 33 percent are women? This type of employment or form of work does not seem to be so desirable. The fact is, however, that 80 percent of women in part-time employment have children and 62 percent of the part-time jobs offered require no or only a low qualification. It is also a fact that due to the unilateral burden distribution of domestic and care labour, women are being forced into a segment on the labour market, which is poorly paid and increasingly unstable. In addition, there is a risk of the division of the labour market, something that I would not be impoverished, namely full-time work for men and part-time work – with all the unprotected employment conditions – for women. In particular, it is about breaking the spirals of unilateral family labour, and important measures are included in the government programme: labour-friendly – and I also understand it as a family-friendly – flexibility of working time, special programmes for re-primary women, special promotion for girls and women with regard to the expansion of the professional spectrum, promotion of occupational education and training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore also pleased in this context to provide 600 million schilling for the establishment and promotion of, but also the extension of, the provision of services to childcare facilities. In order to fundamentally change and improve the situation of women, private and political strategies, appropriate awareness-raising and legal adjustments are required. Information and service offers also contribute to the education and education of consciousness. The area of awareness-building also includes the progress of the Minister of Women in strengthening constitutional anchoring of equal treatment. Austria has recently emerged internationally with this very important position at the EU Government Conference. This was about the project of anchoring gender equality in the EU Constitution as well. The implementation of this principle includes equal access to employment, equal access to training, equal access to career opportunities, equality of pay without discrimination on grounds of sex and equal conditions at work for self-employed and self-employed persons. In my view, the government programme contains something essential, namely the regionalisation of the system of equal treatment officers. However, you will still have to remember a few things when it comes to practical implementation, Mrs Minister. I am thinking of the budgetary framework available, even cuts have also been made, and there are no planning points. But there will certainly be certain ideas from your side. So I mean that in the question of equality – and with that I come back to my introduction quote – there is actually a phase ahead of important discussions. However, I also believe that we must not leave women alone in these discussions in the sense of what we have done politically, especially from a social democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7221	The honourable Member, Mr Mag, is now on the floor. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7242	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Lady's People's Lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. – I do not see Mr Volksanwalt now, but he is certainly close. Unfortunately, no one has yet spoken to you, and you have been sitting there for hours. We are pleased that you are listening so attentively to the debate here, although no one is speaking to you. I don't really want it either. I just wanted to make two messages, so to speak, on your own, but also on your own. We already had the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee on Budgets. First of all, I would like to thank you as a citizen for your work, although I have never had to contact the public prosecutors personally, but I know that this is very, very, very successful many people do. Secondly, I would like to thank you for your proposals made during the week on the occasion of the presentation of your new logo and your work programme. We from the Greens are very much in favour of these proposals, and we are now working specifically on making an initiative, because I am missing any initiative on this from the coalition parties, but also from the Federal Government. You certainly remember the discussions last year on the appointment of Mrs. Volksanstalt Korosec: The order mode is simply incredible! It simply takes the two major parties and the largest opposition party the right to control the administration, and they completely ignore the fact that the party relations, the political conditions have completely changed. That is, as I now know, absolutely not in your mind, but also in our sense. We shall put forward this legislative proposal and then certainly have the opportunity to discuss it with the colleagues of the other political groups at first reading. This only happens in the short term, and hopefully it will come to an intense discussion when it is ready; but it will, I suppose, be sure to be autumn when I look at the timetable of the National Council. But the period of your order still takes a little while, and so now, at the beginning of the period, we should start to talk about it, so that we do not get back to the accusation that it is an occasion legislation. On behalf of my group, I would therefore like to thank you for your work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I wanted to address the Chancellor – he is not here now. Nor is the competent Secretary of State there; only the Minister of State, but later my colleague, Pollet-Kammerlander, speaks to him. I am speaking today – and that is why I am actually sitting in Parliament – as a Croatian; after all, I am a Green minority spokesperson. Ladies and gentlemen! There is now – as information for colleagues who are still present here – a highly qualified discussion – within the interests of the individual groups in Austria and in a small but interested group of peoples about the inclusion of a so-called state target in the Austrian federal constitution, which is intended to have the content – from our point of view, from the point of view of the ethnic groups – first to a re-definition of the self-conception of the ethnic groups and second, which is much more essential – to give a commitment to Austria's diversity in this country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The members of Austrian ethnic groups are the best Austrians. For years, for decades, since I can remember, we are constantly required to confess to Austria, as if it had ever been questioned by a member of a group. But in the public debate we are faced with a lot of things. This commitment to this of our homeland and to that of our Republic must always be on our lips in order not to be subject to certain suspicions. I mean, these times are finally over, especially after the tragic year 1995 – for Austria’s ethnic groups, and it would be time to give Austrian peoples those free spaces away from assimilation pressure – so that they can maintain their tradition, language, culture without hindrance – at the time when the Republic confesses itself to its peoples, to the diversity of cultures and languages in that country. On the occasion of an important mission of the Greens, which now runs at 6.05 a.m. in the early days – if we have the sending time – in a culinary way, we have tried to bring to the Austrians what this country actually represents from its identity and self-understanding: In fact, we have sung the Austrian German-speaking Austrian anthem in the languages of all the groups living in Austria – and now I also count the German-speaking Austrians. Representatives of the different ethnic groups and also a German-speaking Austrian – in this case a Tyrolean – sing the Austrian Federal Anthem. This is a very nice morning greeting – the reactions of listeners to it are really very amazing. People are wondering: What's that? The Austrian Federal Anthem on Croatian or in the language of Austrian Roma and Sinti? Czech? Slovak? Hungarian? Slovenian? – Yes, this is Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is not only German, not only German! [[Abg. Koppler: Austria is not only German, she said!]] Austria is a country – and especially in 1996, in which we celebrate the Millennium, it is particularly appropriate to point out this – which has a special cultural diversity. [[Abg. Koppler: "Not just German," she said.]] If Mr Koppler would listen there, he could learn something, because in Upper Austria, one does not know exactly what is happening – especially in the east and in the south – I have already noticed. Erhard, don't worry, that might be something new and interesting for you. But, ladies and gentlemen, Erhard Koppler may not be quite able to do so; he is very monocultural. Unfortunately, he is a human being who is only monolingual. [[Abg. Koppler: I also had a foreign language in school!]] I see it as a privilege to be members of a people's group and bilingual, and I have often said it here in Parliament and say it again – and now especially for you, Erhard Koppler: Consensuality is curable! You can also learn a second language, perhaps the language of an Austrian ethnic group, in order to also signal that it is part of us. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It is also – now summarized in simplistic words – what this state objective is to express. At present, understanding within the parties represented in Parliament is good, especially the signals from the ÖVP and SPÖ are quite positive, which, as you have heard for a long time now, can do with their two-thirds of what they want. The signals given by the two parties are quite positive in this case, and I would also like to express my express support to the colleagues of the two major parties. I believe that I am speaking in the sense of Erhard Koppler, who would certainly be one of the most vehement advocates of Austria's commitment to the diversity of languages and cultures, perhaps in Article 7a or 7b of the Austrian Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, members of the Austrian ethnic groups have two possibilities: You have the option between different classifications of assimilation – I am, if you want, also a product of this ideology or attitude – or the possibility of retreating to the ethnic ghetto. We should now also extend the width and diversity of this palette, that is the intention! I believe that we, as members of the groups, but above all also as parliamentarians, have three things to do: first of all, to protect the Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty. This is in the truest sense of the word, because the discussion over the last few months, where there have always been votes to declare the Vienna State Treaty obsolet, is also Article 7, absolutely dangerous for members of the groups. This article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty is something like the Magna Charter of Austrian People's Rights. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to contradict those who believe that the principle of defence power should now be revived and that the protection of minorities or the protection of groups should perhaps be safeguarded bilaterally between Slovenia and Austria. That's the wrong way. What we want is the international safeguarding of the legal standards we have, and we should also receive them. – This is my first request and request for you. My second request or request concerns the amendment of the People's Group Act 1976. In the course of the discussion on the recognition of Roma and Sinti as a people's group, we have already found countless times that the applicability of the People's Group Act is limited to the real groups and to diversity in Austria. This amendment is more than excessive, and I also ask the colleagues of the other political groups – today I am quite peaceful and consensual – for their support and, above all, for their initiative. There must be something to be said about in the National Council, which is constructive in the sense of the ethnic groups. And now I come to the very last point: I do not hide my boundless disappointment at the fact that you have not learned anything from 1995 from the year when terrorism and terrorist attacks in that country have affected almost exclusively members of Austrian groups – although non-members of groups have been harmed when I think of the victims of the cane bomb attack in Stinatz – Stinjake – which is not a Croatia but a worker of the environmental service Burgenland, a German-speaking Burgenland. In view of the events this year, which were marked by negative symbolism for the ethnic groups, I would have expected that you would not simply freeze the promotion of the ethnic groups, just as is now happening in this budget for the next two years. We have been fighting together in recent years for this – there has always been consensus – that the promotion of groups is being increased. Because there is a decades-long need for follow-up, missing things you can't bet in a few years. But this morning, the empire beats back: Freeze is the foreign exchange. This will not be passed on to the Austrian ethnic groups! For, ladies and gentlemen: Whoever saves with the ethnic groups saves on the cultural and linguistic diversity of Austria! And this not only endangers members of the groups, but it endangers Austrian identity, for we are part of this whole. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, consider once again whether this is the symbol you want to set after the 1995 terrorist year. Ladies and gentlemen! I have repeatedly tabled a request here, every year, which is a motion for a resolution to increase the promotion of groups. Apart from my colleague, Ofner – once – never agreed to me. I don't bring him in anymore today. For my proposal to increase the promotion of groups to 100 million in stages is not even a drop on the hot stone, compared with the promotion of groups in other European countries and especially in other comparable EU countries. But you obviously mean: Now, where we are in the EU, we no longer need to behave in accordance with the EU, in the sense of having something like a good entry. These 52 million are really a shame, and the Austrian groups will remember that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now I am coming to something that has retorted me this week and strengthened my judgment and my opinion about the Freedom Party. The Freedom Party is again beginning to hate. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You hate us!]] It hates in a way that we peoples have not known in this form in recent years. In the "Small Newspaper" last Sunday, this listing was read: "Carinthia first" – a het against the bilingual population of Carinthia. [[the speaker holds a newspaper section in the height]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why is that a hetze?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Look at America! That's where it says: America first!]] Obviously, the "Small Newspaper" is reasonable enough to not buy you such nonsense editorially, so advertise these hateful statements. There is really a case to be considered in a way of doing so against a bilingual monument in front of the Mohorjeva Hemagoras publisher in Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In America it also says: USA first! United States first!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You hate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Does it start like that again? Starts again with: "We represent your interests! We represent your interests, namely German-Kärntner."? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Chastisement!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't really like to deal with the FPÖ. But if the FPÖ uses fiscal means or the promotion of parties – where it always plays so large the Saubermann role here – to hate bilingualism, that is, against cultural diversity, then this must not simply be unpunished and unmentioned! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All the liberals belong to you 20 years behind lattice! That's your attitude!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is your philosophy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You all want to lock us up for 20 years! A million people want to lock you up!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! On the other hand, you have no master at all – and now we come to my colleague Meischberger, who has been so intensely involved in media promotion and press promotion. For example, if I only take a small look at the promotions for daily newspapers and weekly newspapers and then take a very small account and see how much promotion the liberal "Kärntner Nachrichten" get from the federal government – a liberal newspaper in Carinthia, you don't have to know it; it's not worth knowing it – and then I see it's a million amount that flows from the state bag to a liberal Carinthian newspaper, the "Kärntner Nachrichten", then I see that this amount is higher than the total subsidy for the Tjednik, for Slovenski Vestnik and for the Nedelja, for these three Slovenian-speaking newspapers in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! One can easily stand here and compete against press promotion, party promotion and so on, if one is at the same time one of the largest high-absorbers in that state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The colleagues from the ÖVP, Liberals and SPÖ do not know this, so I see it as my task to make a little clarification here. You of the liberals don't have a generator anyway, you cash where it goes, and hate where it goes. But we won't let that happen! I have considered these times to be past, and now there is only one currency: Be the beginnings!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7523	Mrs Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7544	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would just like to refer to the previous speaker, Mrs Stoisits. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Is not necessary!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Don't worry about you. I guess the bad conscience is going through. I actually wanted to say something completely different. She has been very committed here and has fought very sympatheticly for the minorities. I have reported on the subject of women, and I am very often experiencing this issue of minorities, because although women are the majority, I often feel that I am speaking for a minority. [[Abg. Böhacker: But, ladies and gentlemen! That's not true!]] – I will actually take you to the floor on every occasion I catch you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, we have found a lot of publications on women in our subjects. I only have two here. The one is a writing by the Minister of Family Moser, which is about the economy of time; Mrs Mertel has already referred to her, the second is a research report from "Social and labour market policies", experiences of the re-primary women. And I should also use the activism for myself, including the women's report and the social report here. These are publications that give a sad picture of the fact that for more than ten years, women's issues have been moving very little. Mrs Mertel mentioned earlier that women cannot exercise their freedom of choice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I claim that women have no freedom of choice at all. We have fought a lot, but in the end, when it comes to our own needs, this freedom of choice is often an empty, hollow word. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have too little wide a range and far too few solutions to offer. This is not a criticism of the Minister of Women – that it will not be misunderstood – but it is simply an honest survey of the status quo that we need to do. Four years separate us from the turn to the next millennium. Truly a very short time! These four years, I hope, cover up with this legislative period. Today's budget deliberations cover the years 96 and 97, so to speak, half the time of this legislative period. But: Not all that is feasible, which can be developed and financed from the budget, is so successful that it actually helps women. We need, of course, other measures in addition to the financial allocations and the budgetary measures which, for example, the countries that set up municipalities. Sometimes it's something that wouldn't even cost anything. I believe that regulations, promotions or changes to be made due to the needs of women and that they should not actually be paid with money would not have any financial impact, but would simply be a recognition of what women actually need and in which areas they could be helped. ==References== March, the International Women's Day, Mr. Rainer Mint gave an interview on the women's situation. He meant: "The euphoria is gone, child plus career remains a major problem for women." – And so is it. There are two essential issues which concern women and which are particularly serious in terms of women's needs, or which require a regulation and rapid change, improvement. The wife of today and her child wish or her family wish is the basis. Today's woman has only three options: She wants to make a career, then she has to give up on family, better said: Then she abandons family. This is the safest way to actually make a career. Or she abandons career and career and decides for the family. This is an almost safe path to poverty or at least to the poverty line, but in any case a safe path of social decline if we do not take measures towards improvements. And their chance of ever getting back into the profession today is less than ever and will not be much greater in the next few years. Many women therefore opt for family and work. They both want to. However, they do not want this together in a row and in part not in a row. But the situation that we find in the world of work today, and the desire not to lose the job or not to be cancelled after the karence, mean that many women combine both together – of course, with a double and triple load. For above all – and this is nothing new, we say again and again, but it has not changed in this area despite all appeals – the main work with children, with family the women, remains proven, traceable in this issue of Sonja Moser. In this we see that all appeals do not benefit. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser and Steibl.]] Now, of course, there are proposals for solutions. The Federal Minister said that it might be a good thing to change a passage in the Constitution and introduce the sharing of housework. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Mertel, said that we had the partnership marriage for several decades. In my opinion, it is not a partnership. That is why we are concerned and afraid that, even if we are still writing the division of duties into the constitution, we will also need 20 years to implement this regulation, and then it will still not be implemented. I personally think it is more important to find different approaches. I believe one, ladies, and then I address you and all the women in particular, and I say this again and again: We simply need to train our sons more partnership! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a very difficult thing. Apparently, this rarely works. I don't know, maybe it's just not in the blood of some kids to participate in the household. But I do not believe that it is a question of the mass of inheritance, but rather that, in addition to education, the model plays one of the greatest roles, the model that is simply inhaled by the effects of the male family members, the fathers, the uncles and the like. Ladies – I myself am not the mother of a son – explain to me that it is extremely difficult, if the corresponding model or model function is missing, to actually train the growing men to share their partnership. However, we should try, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. This situation presents itself to women, and in the end they will be left alone in choosing which model of life they choose. That is why it is essential and, as I believe, a command of the hour to reach out to those women who have to link up with the family and the profession. Of course, we need an extension of childcare facilities. As the 600 million can be very helpful, but it cannot be limited to these only posts, we need a continuous development. Perhaps this one model will not be available again or will not be used, but a new or different one will be important. We also need more flexibility and more need-relatedness. But this can only be seen by the community. The family council must deal with these demands and find solutions to them. As a parliamentarian, we have to provide for the framework conditions, of course, some of them also for the budget, but also for support from the mood. I am very sorry that the second year of karenz, which was also a help to the woman in the profession, has now been reduced to a year and a half. However, I am not of the opinion of Mrs Konrad, the Minister for Women, that this should not be changed again even in better times, because it is so difficult to re-enter the profession. I don't think we should be depressing: It is difficult to get up, therefore we do not give up on this half year of Karenz!, but then all the strength should be used to improve the return even after two years for women considerably! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point is very important to me personally. There must be no Sunday speeches either, but we need – although it is difficult – concrete approaches here if we want to move on. This second priority is the working world of women. It is really strange that when women say they want to link their family task and the job, they do not find the same hearing as men who say they want more free time, they have changed their needs. You'll find more of a hearing for that. That's what it says: Aha, we need changes in working time, more flexibility in order to meet these needs. I think it is important for both, but it should also be possible for men to have this flexibility so that they do not have the excuse, in the family sector they cannot care about children and households because they are under labour pressure. This is why flexibility in working time is very important, from part-time to various flexible forms of working time that women urgently need, because their living situation is quite different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, full-time work would be the ideal, also seen from social rights. For example, Brigitte Ederer has a very different opinion from that of Mr Mertel. I have read from Mrs Brigitte Ederer that she meant that it will be so difficult to have new jobs in the future, to have more jobs – and she is just like me worried about women's jobs in the future, even in the near future – that the alternative will not be called part-time or full-time jobs, but it may be called part-time jobs or none at all. This is a gloomy picture, but we also need to think in this direction so that we can very well enable women to enter the profession or work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that we need to think very carefully about the efficiency of all measures. The second year of karenz was a safe sign of an efficient, need-based offer for mothers, and we should be able to achieve many other rules of equal success. Another point, and with this I would like to conclude out of time scarcity, is the concern for women around fifty. We all see that there are crazy cuts and that women around fifty can easily fall out of the work process. But in this respect, for everyone to read after, there are in fact also rules under the structural adjustment laws, which have been tried to absorb the worst for women. One can discuss this and above all one will have to wait for the bonus malus system to be so bad for women. Whoever reads the series of letters on social and labour market policy, for example, about re-privileged women, will find that women, if they are supported for keeping them if they are over fifty, think that would be very right for them. They express this need, even if it is the opposite of what Mr Früher clearly suggests. But in fact there is a very clear will-making of women by fifty. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have only been able to get a few points. I think we should get together and set priorities quickly. Of course, we should also do something in the area of EU funding. There is a wide range here, because women's policy is simply a cross-sectional matter. But we should work out all the issues very consciously, jointly and very strongly. I think we are also not so far apart when we face the needs of women and the needs of children. Only prejudices and fears that this might happen may not immediately separate us from the front. Rather, we should really discuss well and then really, step by step, set up an offensive, a strategy, how we can go into the next millennium with a successful balance sheet for women!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7652	High house! I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 1 and 2. Discussion of the answer to the question 109/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7674	High house! We are now coming to discuss the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 109/AB. The above-mentioned answer has been distributed in the hall, and a reading is not sufficient. We are entering the debate. I would remind you that the speaking time according to § 92 para. 5 Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 15 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7708	Mr President. High house! The debate that has already been held today on the question of whether or not the direction of the Minister in connection with the ERNK, a suborganisation of the Kurdish Communist Workers' Party PKK, will lead to criminal consequences, actually passed the core. At the same time, however, it will lead, as I am going to refer to, to reply to a question which is now under debate, and to Mr Purtscheller. The core of the accusation should not be whether what the Minister has done was strictly illegal under the law or not. Rather, it is a question of whether a minister is acting correctly, knowing that the PKK and its sub-organisations are banned abroad, treated as terrorist organisations in neighbouring countries, is classified by the Austrian Supreme Court as terrorist organisations, whether it is allowed to operate in Austria or not, by directing that any observation and observation of that organisation should be discontinued until further attacks can be made to that office. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the core of the accusation: The Federal Minister knows that this organization is criminal, he knows that it is practicing attacks, he knows that protection money is being extorted. And yet he gives his police the instruction: This organization is to be left alone until further attacks make it necessary to take care of the left organization from the wild Kurdistan again! The allegation refers to the fact that a minister in this ministry is alignment, as if there were no left-wing terror in that Republic, as if not a specific terrorist organisation were carrying terror to Austria. It is not true what the Federal Chancellor said! – This organization is very likely to develop terrorist activities from protective extortion to attacks, for example in Upper Austria. The accusation refers to the fact that he does not take note of all of this, but that these organizations also enjoy the special pattern of the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this occurs at times when, for example, the Abu-Nidal Group in Austria, already mentioned by Klubobmann Khol, is allowed to open an office with the tolerance of the state police. All of this happens after the Federal Minister has informed me in a further question that he cannot take care of the ERNK at all because it was not at all possible for this ERNK in Austria. Therefore, it could not engage in any activities against this ERNK. – However, he has now rejected himself through his pattern against this ERNK and the PKK. Ladies and gentlemen! The lawyer of this PKK is the well-known friend of the Minister, with whom he has been closely friends for ten years, at least according to the information of the lawyer concerned, i.e. the lawyer Prader, who is now seeking immunity, in seeking a Vienna mandate on the Green Country Day List. Ladies and gentlemen! This friend, with whom the Minister meets regularly and can be protected by the state police, was also the one who repeatedly represented various PKK activists and various DEV-SOL activists as defenders in court. For example, he represented the already known Mr. Haidar Kilic, who was involved in a shooting in Vienna with a compliment. A man was shot in a Turkish café by a fellow criminal in the thigh. This Haidar Kilic also appears in the investigations related to the partly unexplained explosive attack in Ebergassing. This lawyer, Mr Prader, friend of the Minister, had a speech at the time when the Minister came in because of his "TATblatt" donation – first donation: Purchase of a printing machine for the "TATblatt", second donation: cost-effective process participation in the process costs against the FPÖ –, best handling with the already quoted journalist Wolfgang Purtscheller. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Wolfgang Purtscheller – I already saw it on Friday – has now dived abroad. He has repeatedly received references from the State Police or from the Ministry of the Interior to dive abroad. He is commuting between Mexico and Berlin, but in Austria he is not allowed to look at it because it is not desirable in Austria that he appears here. And the Minister, in his reply to the question whether there are investigations against Mr Purtscheller in connection with the explosive attack in Oberwart, tells us lapidar: No, that's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In this context, Mr Purtscheller is a completely unwritten sheet. Mr. Purtscheller did only one thing: ==References====External links== April 1995, at 6 p.m., in Radio Österreich predicted an attack for Easter holidays. – In 1995 the car week and Easter holidays fell between Monday, 10. April, and Easter Monday, 17. April. For these Easter holidays, Mr Purtscheller predicted quite precisely an attack. I am referring to a report from the APA, which was even more evident to Purcheller than to the ORF. Minister! He must really have best contacts with the Ministry of the Interior: He said that the Ministry of the Interior also assumed an attack from the far right scene for Easter holidays. He then confirms that to the APA, where he says: "In addition, there is information that the right-winging scene has planned a further attack for the Easter season." – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen. That is why Mr Purtscheller is to be consulted. However, the Minister still finds this to be not suspicious. There are no investigations against Mr Purtscheller. It is agreed by the already quoted journalist because of his announcement of the attack, but in the other case - and this was no less than the then newly appointed Minister of the Interior - that the perpetrators have been assigned exactly as Mr Purtscheller predicted: It should have been legal radicals. For example, the ORF has been carried out: ==References== In a comment by Mr Kössler on April 1995, which is not an unknown one in this House, and which has very good personal relations with members of this House, it is already known that the power supply of Vienna has already been paralysed. The Minister of the Interior did not know where he should be assigned at all. He pretended that the people there were completely unknown to him. What the Minister of the Interior has kept silent, ladies and gentlemen, is that he knew one of the assassins killed personally and was in personal contact with him for his donation for the "TATblatt". High house! Minister of the Interior! The previously quoted Mr. Purtscheller was identified by your predecessor to the House as someone in which, for example, a police operation in the Kirchweger House seized a message pad, a notebook, in which there were detailed instructions for the construction of bombs. – This was shared by the Minister on 5 May. In a reply to a question, January in writing. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Minister Löschnak!]] – I say yes: It's one of the predecessors. – We now look back to the times of Franz Löschnak, and it would be to be clarified today, under what circumstances and with what reason this Franz Löschnak has fled the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This Minister of the Interior then said on 8 February. Mr Purtscheller, in an oral reply to the question again, that he is being found against Mr Purtscheller because he has an instruction on the construction of bombs. Minister for the Interior, however, says: He's not suspicious and has nothing to do with Ebergassing. Although he announces the attack, it is not determined against him. – By the way, it is due to a corresponding warning abroad. In that Ernst-Kirchweger House, Mr. Purtscheller is found with an instruction on the construction of bombs, where several months later a recipe book, a more than 100 pages strong, is also found for the construction of bombs. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All of this, however, seems to be no reason to initiate investigations against Mr Purtscheller. But this is also understandable, ladies and gentlemen: Would you find out about your friend, your lawyer, Mr. Prader, who asked you to organize a substitute for the public? Would you find a friend to relieve you of what you're supposed to do and bring you a culprit just because you've gotten into the talk because of your own "TAT leaf" donations? – This friend was also assured that this alleged perpetrator will be released from prison after a few months. – Would you take investigations against such a man, or would you not be glad if this man went abroad and could not be reached for the Minister and for the State Police? Minister! Wolfgang Purtscheller himself is in the "Antifascist News" on 4. It is quoted as follows: Wolfgang Purtscheller also said that the text – meaning that text of the criminal charges of Mr. Oberschlick against you – does not stem from it. However, the data were broadly modo. While Prader did not express the warning of a possible bloody arrest as a threat, it is true – as Purtscheller said – that the police could go through with deep concern. The promise of a maximum penalty of half a year had also been given very well. He said that ten times, according to Purtscheller, there are witnesses for that. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Incredible! A minister tries to organize a substitute culprit to show the public about a suspect man who is deliberately undetected. And this Minister will also ensure that this man is allowed to go abroad so that he is not tangible to the local police, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! This is a scandal of first kindness, a scandal, as they are now piled around this minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! In this context, it always wins a strange look that it was you who represented the wrong claim to the public quite consciously and specifically, that the volatile perpetrator of Ebergassing, Bassam Al Taher, was supposedly due to a warning I had at my press conference on the 3rd. May have been said to have been submerged. – At the time – and I can prove this to the Minister – the Minister already knew that this man had been in flight for 13 days, so he had already moved abroad 13 days before my press conference! This minister can organize a perpetrator, knows the terrorist Thaler personally, makes donations for the scene, once had great sympathy for the RAF terrorists, deliberately informs the public wrong – and I wonder with what thought? – what is happening to the subjugation of a criminal, who has now also moved abroad, ladies and gentlemen: These are the activities of the Interior Minister Caspar One. Only a few weeks in office, he gives a warning that the PKK cannot be observed until it makes further attacks. He is only in office for a few weeks, and it turns out that this minister is donating for the scene. The minister is only in office for a few weeks, and we already have in Austria a security policy tohuwabohu around a journalist who, by the way, – and no one has studied that, that was not a topic for the public – as the only access to the then still sought and believed Beate Graf, as he railed in the newspaper. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Schweitzer, is going to be, because my speaking time is about to end, and yet why it took eight hours for the police to be informed in the superintendent, why Mr Purtscheller knew in front of the police that a bomb attack was being carried out, why Mr Purtscheller had agreed to the media before the police were informed, why Mr Purtscheller was at the scene before, with no doubt now that the crime scene had been manipulated. In fact, in this place of crime, objects were to be found in a scatter, as it is not technically possible. And the Minister is now trying again to tell us the wrong thing about the existence of the leather jacket discovered under the head of one of the Roma killed in Oberwart. The Minister wants us to know in the ORF that a relative would have put them under his head. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't put any jackets under your head, you put a dead man, if anything, jackets over your head! This jacket, High House, has been found under the head of one of the victims, and this jacket has disappeared. Thus, these and some other peculiarities around the attack in Oberwart lead again and again to Mr. Purtscheller, who was at the scene of the crime in advance and had something to do with these things with certainty. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Purtscheller was – and it is certain today – certainly led by no minor than by the former head of the state police, the indirectly suspended Oswald Kessler. – Oswald Kessler was the man who led Mr. Purtscheller. Purtscheller was V-Man of the Ministry of the Interior. Purtscheller had access to all possible documents of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as another ominous gentleman, against which it is determined, ladies and gentlemen, High House, of which...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7771	Deputies! Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7786	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will probably have to deal more often with the question and the role of the Minister of the Interior in these heavy bombs in this House and this year!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7816	Mr Oellinger has made a statement on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. The corresponding provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has claimed that Mr Prader is seeking immunity by seeking a land day mandate. This claim by Mr Stadler is, of course, incorrect [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How do you want to know?]] Mr Prader expressly declared with his candidate for the Board of State in Vienna that he did not apply for a mandate for the Vienna Landtag elections.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7870	Mr Gaál has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7892	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. Stadler! Even today, they have once again exaggerated mercilessly. You have spoken here, and you have not argued indiscriminately, but you have made allegations and have remained guilty of any evidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So I can give the truth the honor and can assure you: There is no left-wing terror in Austria, and there is no terror by the Kurds either. Take note of this! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] A bit more objectivity and seriosity would already be appropriate! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You obviously have scams!]] I understand if you only speak the word to the opposition. I would, however, like to say that if you have spoken again and again to Mr Purtscheller: I don't know him, I'm not his defender and I don't want to give any characteristic of his person here, but I must emphasize very well, ladies and gentlemen: There was a procedure at the police level, which has been completed and is now subject to judicial review. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's not finished yet! You're miserablely informed!]] The executive has completed its surveys. This case is now pending, and we will see what is happening. I am referring to stressing that this very serious matter is only determined on the basis of facts. And on this occasion you should also hold the following, Mr Mag. Stadder: Whether it suits us or you do not, there is no indication or suspicion against Mr Purtscheller regarding participation in the explosive attack in Ebergassing. This is the result of the investigations carried out by the competent safety authorities, and we have to take note of that here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your own Minister Lösnak has given a different answer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are constantly talking about attacks concerning ebergassing and the procedure against the Kurds, I can say: Also through repetitions Your accusations are not more correct! The surveys in the Ebergassing case have been completed, they are now judicial and we want to wait for the decision of the courts here. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where are the fellow perpetrators?]] Mr Mag. Schweitzer! There's arrest warrants! You know that when you read the act. It's being flogged after the accused and the suspect. You cannot now attach anything to the Federal Minister, but the courts have the floor, and we want to stick to it. Mr Mag. Stadler! I would like to remind you: It was you who went to the public very early in the Causa Ebergassing and, as is true of your naturalist, very quickly with an information. This has also made it possible for this suspect to flee. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The reason for this was only your negative behavior! I would also like to mention this here. You shouldn't forget that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned with the question of the transfer of conflicts to Austria. And international recognition confirms the accuracy of our path. We will continue this path. Because, unlike Germany and France, this policy has not resulted in any acts of violence that have always been committed in Austria. We are concerned with the security of Austria. This is an important concern for us to work together. And we will continue this path too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is also in the opinion of Mr Ofner. I've got a paper here: ==References====External links== In an interview in March 1996, he said that he had at the time called for a corresponding ban in Austria after the PKK ban in Germany. – I can quote: "I have now revised my position a little: The PKK represents only a marginal problem in Austria compared to Germany. As long as it doesn't become an unrest, we could live on as before." – Mr Dr. Ofner! I have to give you a full answer on this point. They have recognized how policy can be seen in this context. We are trying to continue this course, and therefore we must not capitalize on small, party-political considerations. The issue of security, ladies and gentlemen, is a very serious subject with depth. We do not want to speak Party-political Hick-hack, but we are trying to ensure security and security. We want to make sure that people in Austria feel good and safe. That is the content of our policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e7999	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. - Please, honourable Member! I call for strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8023	Mr President. My predecessor has indeed claimed that by naming a name in the press conference, I have made it possible for Bassam Al Taher to disappear. – This is incorrect. The right thing is: ==References== 4. In 1995 the explosion took place in which the two assassins Thaler and Konicek themselves were involuntarily airborne. ==References== 4. the two killings were discovered in Ebergassing. ==References== 4. Bassam Al Taher went abroad after a clear police search, a day after the discovery of the dead in Ebergassing. However, my press conference, Mr. Cot, was only held on 3 March. May, 13 days later, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Well!]] So things can't have gone as you said!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8061	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8082	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion of today's question affects some of the most insignificant problems of the rule of law. I would like to point this out clearly. – This concerns less the request itself than what was associated with the discussion, namely the aspect of the Kurds in this country and how to deal with them. I would like to turn to this very concretely. I hate to say, but it is true that Klubobmann Khol can't be contradicted if he has done today that no one can stand above the law or outside the law in the rule of law: You can't stand the law anyway. Whether you can stand outside is a question of whether this is manifest or not. That's what Khol meant. – Therefore, one should not take this aspect so easily on the light shoulder. I'll do that in the second part. First of all, I would like to turn to the real question, which concerns quite a different subject, although the Federal Minister must be associated with it. The question arises: Is the request answer satisfactory in its form, or is one dissatisfied with the content? To that end, I say: In the form it could not have been different if it refers to ongoing investigations. It is, however, – and this is important to me – in a relative contradiction to what we have heard before about the same case of Ebergassing, namely that it has already been clarified. I noticed this right away. If, by replying to the question by the Federal Minister, what is to be read there – I am saving myself from quoting that – we had already been confronted with reports in July 1995 that the case has been practically clarified and arrest warrants are imminent, then I can say: I am somewhat too long for the period from July 1995 to April 1996 to be satisfied with the resolution rate, but I cannot distinguish whether the reason for this is a problem of security executives or a problem of justice, because I assume that, of course, the public prosecutors should already be concerned at this stage. That would really be very urgent to discuss. The discussion of a request does not allow this, of course, for reasons of time, so I expressly note that. Of course, high-grade dissatisfaction occurs when one is confronted with the notification in July 1995 that the Ebergassing case has been practically clarified and there is only a disagreement as to the rate of application of arrest warrants: Next week – it was called in July 1995 – they will be requested. But now more or less a standstill has occurred. I can't really comfort my colleague Gaál when he says: The criminal proceedings are under way. – I don't see anything about it! I hope, however, that the Minister of the Federal Government, if he speaks, will not hide his knowledge of the state of criminal proceedings at the formal level – I do not want any details at all. This is an aspect that seems important to me. On one point I must expressly contradict Mr Stadler: I also remember very well the course of things immediately after Ebergassing, because by chance a committee of the interior took place just after the attack. In this Committee on the Interior, at the time, the Minister of the Federal Government was expressly informed of the state of his knowledge, complete and including the political evaluation of the suspected perpetrators who had remained there as victims of death. I clearly remember that he held that these two were there due to his own explosive attack for the life of the left scene. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He didn't say that!]] I usually have no growing memory of these questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] My colleague, Mr Kiss, will certainly be right. I'm just saying, At the time when this Committee on the Interior took place, the Federal Minister immediately informed us of his current state of knowledge. He was very careful. Of course, he didn't call the two dead people found there expressis verbis as perpetrators. But he has made it clear that he also assumes that at least two perpetrators of several may be at least, which was not quite clear at that time. Therefore, from my point of view, there has not been a hiding game at any time in this point. What happened to the escaped Syrians – I never remember the name; exactly that – I also remember that at that time the publication of his name was not seen as very happy by my colleague Stadler. [[Call:Bassam Al Taher]] I haven't researched in detail what was first and what afterwards, but I think I remember that he was actually involved in the accelerated flight here – indirectly or inadvertently, I don't know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler has cut Oberwart. I must say that this is admirable, with what a matter of course You're interrelated here with Upper Guard and Ebergassing, which leads to the potential perpetrator circle; that's what I'm telling you with all the clarity. I hate every act of violence, I reject it, regardless of what it has for a mesh, only for research it is very useful to consider where the greater probability of the succession lies. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Us too!]] To connect the upper guard with Ebergassing, I would like to say this – with all the naïveness – at least in this phase for great cows. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Mr. Kier! Is that all you want to do?]] However, I am dissatisfied with that – and I may be in another place again – that Oberwart is not enlightened. [[Call to the liberals: That's right!]] That is the real thing, because if it were clarified, first of all the rule of law would be remedied to the rule of law, and second, the deliberate speculations about the assignment of the culprit would cease, for this would be false political change. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes!]] However, there is no doubt that this was a clear racist attack in the Upper Guard. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] If you are now, as it were, agreeing to this racist interpretation of Oberwart or showing a conditional defence reflex, then make a mistake, because I have not deliberately spoken of a right-wing radical terror, but I have said that is a racist terror. And you're usually yelling at it. [[Abg. May. Posch: Why do you think?]] In that respect, it is indeed totally unsatisfactory that we have not yet moved on with regard to the Oberwart attack. I am not satisfied with the fact that four murderers are found in a crime scene without political qualification of the environment and that we have no real success over a year after that. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's very unfortunate!]] That's the subject. That is not satisfactory, and I hope that the Federal Minister will also explain here once again the pace in the investigations which he believes can be kept here. To the Kurds: I have expressly given Klubobmann Khol in his claim to the rule of law, but unfortunately this alone is no help to achieve this: If we have a finding already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Gaál, that we really have relatively satisfied conditions at this level, we must consider: Is this still compatible with our current access to such problems, yes or no, because we are finally paying a price for it. We pay the price of relativising the rule of law for this, and that can be a price too high at the decisive moment. This may have been different in the 1970s, and in the 1970s Austria and the neutrality of our Republic had a very different role from that of today. We were not members of the EU, there was no Schengen agreement, there were no open borders with our eastern neighbours. This is a very important difference, one has to consider. Moreover, we live here and today, we are responsible today and we cannot call on a policy that was made in the 1970s, and only with relative and partial success, as we know, because of course there have been PLO attacks. Therefore, it would be worth discussing whether one is willing to pay this price. Whether one is willing to pay the price is easy to close the eyes of the rule of law, or perhaps only to look at the problem by the half-closed eyelids, or whether we must not say, if there are organizations here that are clearly outside the peace order, then we cannot tolerate them as such without further delay. Of course, we have to distinguish clearly between the individual refugees, which is usually the case. It must not be mentioned that there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey and that human rights are being violated there, people are being murdered, people persecuted, forced to be nationalized. That's a fact. This does not mean, however, that we simply uncheckedly acknowledge the forms of organization they choose. I believe that it is de facto a state of weakness in which we are in fact, because, as far as my research could bring this out, there is no formally approved Kurds organization in that country. But there are people who appear under such names. In this regard, I would like to say that today's question debate is also not appropriate to deal with it really exhaustively and to come to a final conclusion because we cannot take decisions there. But that's on the table. This is on the table of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is on the table of the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, and this is, of course, on the table of the Committee on the Interior. That is why I am glad that we can expressly request this, because only because the Austrian Supreme Court has recognized in a judgment that the PKK and its other environmental organizations are criminal organisations has not solved the problem for a long time. First, the Supreme Court is not equipped with a third-party effect in these judgments. Secondly, he makes no statement about the Kurds living in that country. It was exclusively a procedure against certain persons. And so that you might better understand analogy: At the latest since Nuremberg, we know that the SS is a criminal organization. Nevertheless, I refuse everyone my consent, who says just because a member of the SS was, he's a criminal. That is exactly what we would do if, from the judgment of the Supreme Court, we were to delay false and too far-reaching conclusions, because we always have to distinguish between people who have come to us and have to comply with our legal order here, and an organization that has qualified our Supreme Court abroad. In one point I did not understand the excitement at all, namely in the point of the supposed direction of the Minister of the Interior. I'm telling you why: She didn't work. I accept the media reports that his intervention to combat terrorism has indicated precisely these facts to the public prosecutor. It has therefore chosen the completely correct way to deal with the problem of PKK and ERNK to the judicial authorities. So if he had really given such an instruction in the effective sense, then the EBT would have had to abandon this referral to the prosecutor's office, because that is ultimately the prosecution in the very sense of the word, if one passes on the case of justice. I believe that if, in the course of today's debate, we have at least noticed that in Kurd's affairs we may not be careful enough to deal with our rule of law, that we must be dissatisfied in the Ebergassing case, that we heard last July, it has already been clarified, but we actually do not know what happened when we realized that we were once again reminded that the racist murder of Oberwart has not been clarified, then it was worth this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8242	Mr Kukacka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8264	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! The behaviour and political statements of the Minister of the Interior have already given the People's Party the more frequent cause for criticism and political distance. I am particularly referring to his political statements, which he has also made as a member of the government, with which, as we believe, he has left the ground of the common government policy. I mean, for example, his bizarre views on the reform of the German army, by expressing himself de facto as the Federal Minister of the Constitution for the abolition of the Austrian Federal Army and thus also as the voice pipe of the left-wing alternative scene, which has long been an efficient national defense a thorn in its left-hand eye. This ranges from the "Bundesheer light" to the discussion of the anti-Bundesheer parade. And one of the spokespersons is sitting here, Mr Ollinger, who knows very well what I am talking about here. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] In this way, Mr Minister, I would also like to place this clearly and clearly and immediately at the beginning, the Austrian People's Party will not follow you in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also not follow you in your sympathy, the They have proved them by the incomprehensible donation for the "TATblatt" scene. This fact is not to be debated away, but it must be accepted without any close relationship with violence or terrorism even indirectly. That was a wrong act; we do not expect such a thing – not now and not in the future – from an interior minister. We will not follow you in this way either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot follow you in your proposals to disband the Army News Office in the Ministry of Defence and to join forces with the Stapo in a new intelligence service in the Federal Chancellor's Office or even in the Ministry of the Interior. Minister! We will not allow all the intelligence services of the Republic to be grouped into a political hand and there is the danger that they will be instrumentally instrumentalized. Even if you do not have this intention, you should avoid any suspicion in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot follow you on your way, to which you have obviously decided to enforce your policy with the help of instructions in your resort, because that is what you announced in the "profile" regarding foreigners' legislation only last week. That's what it's like. It obviously also held so on to the question of OGH knowledge of the PKK. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go into it in detail. We all know that there is a corresponding information from the responsible ministerial official to the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior was fully aware of how the OGH knowledge looks. He was aware that the authorities had to adhere to this knowledge. Nevertheless, this direction has come to pass, because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sika has clearly stated: ==References== 4. In 1995, the Federal Minister decided that there should be no consequences in relation to ERNK until further attacks can be brought back to this office. Minister! Unfortunately, these are the facts that cannot be disputed, one can at most reinterpret them, and we will not follow you on this path either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But whatever the investigation procedure initiated by the public prosecutor will result, whether it was an illegal instruction and justifying the suspicion of the abuse of office or whether it is a handwritten note by the Director-General for Public Security, as you say, that will and should show the procedure. We do not want to interfere in this question. Here too: Law must remain right, and legal procedures and bodies should speak the last word here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is certain that the PKK is a terrorist association whose strategy is clearly building on violence and terror and also deliberately including murders. We all know the events in the Federal Republic of Germany, and we certainly do not want this to be overrun in our country or the impression that in Austria the rule of law is not willing to accept it with such terrorist organizations, it goes from the outset into the knee, because it is not prepared to go through corresponding conflicts. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the right strategy for us. For us, there is no compromise with the rule of law, no lazy packaging with terrorist organizations. We're not going this way. We confess to the monopoly of the rule of law, we confess to a defensive democracy, for us there is no justification for violence in politics, from whichever side it comes – whether it be left-wing radical, or right-wing radical. [[Abg. Wabl: What about the weapons stores?]] Right-wing extremist violence should not be understood as less than a targeted attack on our democracy than right-wing extreme terror – regardless of whether it is domestically or abroad, whether it is practiced by Austrians or by foreigners. That's our clear position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is important to defend the state monopoly of violence, and we expect this in particular from the Minister of the Interior with the necessary legal consequence and with the corresponding enforcement capacity. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! If this urgent response had not been made today, the safety authorities would have finally clarified these cruel and deeply loathsome explosive attacks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not a urgent one!]] But unfortunately, one still has the impression that the safety executive is quite in the dark. Federal Minister! Here you are required. The public is rightly calling for results soon, a clear investigation of these criminal attacks. A minister is also measured by the ability to solve these problems of his place of business or to carry out a corresponding reorganisation of the security device in order to create the conditions for such success in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only results and clarifications of these attacks are the prerequisites for finally eliminating the suspicions, suspicions, assumptions and accusations, on any side and on any side. Because undoubtedly some here in the High House want to cook their party-political soup with these suspicions and precepts, want to cool their moths, want to instrumentalize these unexplained attacks for themselves party-politically. We also strongly reject this cheap political riding force, and in this sense we do not consider this urgent debate on the questioning to be necessary today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now you don't know where you belong, Kuki!]] What is required is a good work by the security authorities, and we also leave it to these security authorities to determine whether and in what form Mr Purtscheller is involved in the case of Ebergassing or not. That is what the police should do to investigate, at least it has our full support here; they should be left to work in this respect unconstrained and without appropriate instructions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is required in this question – so that there is also a little rest – is not only a party-political hack, but also the recognition and enforcement of our basic democratic rule of law, which the parties represent here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was still quiet!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's why you're talking, don't make anyone up!]] This means that the police and the security authorities must be able to work with all the emphasis and freedom of any political direction, in compliance with all the legal provisions. The independent courts must have the last and decisive word. Not political bodies, but the decisions of the courts and their findings are the standard of justice and injustice, and this also applies to our relationship with the Minister of the Interior. Even if we often do not share his political ideas and opinions whether he has acted unlawfully or not unlawfully, for example as regards this PKK statement, the independent courts should prove it. This is intended to clarify the legal procedure. We don't like party-political preconceptions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No?]] We don't think that's a pretense either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kiss in December of last year! Party-political condemnation: This is abuse of power, he said!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Transport Safety Speaker Kukacka!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Let us now judge the court, let the courts of the prosecutors, the courts of the courts come to a knowledge, and then let us continue to talk about who is right here and what political consequences are to be drawn from it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We often do not share the political assessments of the Minister of the Interior, even we sometimes think they are wrong. But, ladies and gentlemen, these are not legal but political categories, and as such they are not only allowed in the competition democracy, but also necessary. No one should believe that, because we are in a coalition with the SPÖ, we are therefore already sharing the social or security ideas of the Minister of the Interior. This too must be said clearly and clearly. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The political responsibility, Mr President, for the Minister of the Interior, is borne by the Socialist Party and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has chosen him for this office and who has equipped him with the necessary confidence, just as we have done the other way round with our ministers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you also have one?]] This responsibility, Mr Haigermoser, we bear for our ministers. This responsibility must be borne by the SPÖ for its ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8496	The Minister of State, Dr. Eins, has been reported to speak. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8517	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Allow me to comment on some of the questions raised here and on some of the claims made here in the Chamber. Let me begin with a comment on the final statements made by Mr Kukacka. I think we should remain aware of the seriousness of the policy on the security of people in this country, even if we have different views on some issues. Mr Kukacka – and here I also include Mr Kiss – is not what I believe and hope is that we are pursuing a policy here to ensure that there is no violent conflict of the way they have been in Germany over the last few weeks and months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria and the Austrian security policy – and not only since I was Minister of the Interior, but for a long time now; my predecessor and its predecessor have been quite involved – is very conscious and very clear in the question of dealing with Kurds and Kurdish political activists, for example, a way that differs from that which the Federal Republic of Germany goes. And Austria has been extremely good at this, because the last violent conflicts in this area, which occurred in Austria, occurred in 1993, while in Germany almost every week there are conflicts of an extraordinary military force. This has to do with the security policy in Austria. This is a successful policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not know whether the quote to be read in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" today is properly reflected, but if there is the statement that one is prepared to take a radicalization for a change of this line, I do not share this view. I believe that we should continue the road that has provided security here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me also turn to some of the accusations made today by the Free Party, on the morning by its party chairman, now by Mr Stadler, in the afternoon. One thing can be said in the first place: These are all claims which have already been made several times here in the House and elsewhere, however every time, without even a single proof. I think that's disgraceful if I can say so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider! You said today that I had given an instruction that allowed or even carried out terrorist activities in Austria. That's wrong, and you know it. It is right that we should be at a meeting on 21 January. April last year in the Ministry of the Interior had to discuss whether and how to continue dealing with Kurdish activities, whether we have to do persecution or not. And the clear outline that the Ministry of the Interior has pursued and has followed afterwards is that we observe and pursue all the activities of Kurdish political groups here very closely, but only then intervene with police means, only to take action if there is an occasion under Austrian law, and otherwise not. And we're staying there too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider! You said this morning that I had let go of the third culprit of Ebergassing, Mr Bassam Al Taher. You have been claiming something in the same form for a year. That's why it doesn't get any more right. I can remind you of the facts. In fact, Bassam Al Taher, according to the present knowledge of the police, is on the 19th century. 4. last year was seen in the country last time. ==References====External links== 4. was no longer seen, from the findings of the police, about from the time of the 20th century. May, that is, a month later than the time when Bassam Al Taher dived. It was left to you, Mr Stadler, on 3 March. In May of last year, this name was called the main suspect. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now you're twisting again!]] Deputies! I think you would be well advised to take note of the facts for the first time at least. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can ask the Security Director Sika!]] ==References== May you have publicly announced this name. [[Abg. May. ==References====External links== April he went abroad!]] ==References== We have debated this issue here in the House on May. I have brought to your attention the facts. They obviously have neither the willingness nor the ability to hear. I regret that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I think you're wrong!]] On the morning, Mr Haider stated that I had ignored references from the police in Lower Austria to six further explosive-respective fire attacks that would be attributed to the same group of perpetrators. This is wrong, and there is no reason for that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They continue to say the untruth!]] These facts have been communicated to the Court of First Instance in an advertisement. The attacks you mention may therefore be deemed to be inconspicuous. And this too is a success of the Criminal Department of Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have also claimed that I am in the sense of reforming the state police with the help of a university professor to which Stasi contacts could be proved. Deputies! This claim is just as wrong! She lacks any foundation! [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] And you have finally raised the question of where the journalist Purtscheller is, who is repeatedly called in connection with terrorist attacks. Deputies! If you call him again and again in connection with terrorist attacks, this is no longer surprising. It is not the duty of the executive to pursue or determine individuals who, from a police point of view, have nothing to do with them. It is also about the need to say quite clearly: If, and in so far as the criminal department of Lower Austria, which was responsible for and very successful in the Ebergassing case, had considered it necessary to carry out investigations here, it would have led them and it would not have been disabled by anyone. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the statements by Mr Stadler today afternoon: I have already pointed out several times that allegations do not become more true only because they are raised more often. Today you have re-opened this replacement story, which is wrong – and you know it is wrong. Since you're not in the hall again, you can't hear my remarks. It is true that never a substitute was sought, but that, with the help of a lawyer, an attempt was made to move those suspects from whom we had to assume at the time that he was one of the suspects to stand with the police. The person concerned was then present with the police and was able to prove an alibi and was therefore expelled from the circle of the suspects. What I think is particularly unpleasant or just too low in my mind is that you always mention this story, although you know that I cannot call the name of this suspect because it is innocent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Minister! You're holding the name back? Is that necessary for an innocent person?]] I would ask you to extend to Mr Stadler what else I have to say to him: They claimed that I would have said – on 19 November. 4th of last year – it was in Ebergassing acting as a right-wing culprit. The fact is, I'm on 19th. 4. was not in the country at all and did not say anything about it at all, but I did. 4. at a meeting of the Committee on the Interior, first informed you in the Committee on the Interior and then at a press conference called in improvised, it stated that, first of all, it is likely that the victims will be the perpetrators, the day after the discovery of the dead, and secondly that the facts we have are aware that the perpetrators of the left or autonomous scene have been heard. – Take note that this is the explanation of the 20th century. 4. Last year was – and not the allegations you make again and again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To complete this and also show how to deal with the facts and information: Mr Stadler! They have repeatedly claimed that it was about finding any job for the suspended Oswald Kessler. This is wrong. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, with the EU!]] It's not just about it, but Oswald Kessler has been since 1. Mr Stadler, head of the IT group, and you do not need your work-medial efforts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kier, who raised the question of the international arrest warrant against Bassam Al Taher, I would like to say the following: The National Criminal Court ==References== An international arrest warrant was issued in July 1995 and has been in force since then. Mr Kukacka! To three points you have mentioned: I am of the opinion that we should at least let it go through, if not even acknowledge, that ministers or politicians are thinking about issues that concern this country. I believe that it is not a sin either when ministers think of one government half about questions for which one minister is responsible for the other half of the government. We do not need to agree on this. In my opinion, there is good reason to think about why not enough people voluntarily engage in military service. And that is a question that will be answered on your side. [[points out the banks of the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would have called for the Federal Government's intelligence services to be brought together with those who exist, for example, in the Federal Chancellor's Office or the Ministry of the Interior, I must say: This claim too is wrong! If you read in the newspapers, you will find that I did not want to do so, but I would agree that, as far as the intelligence services are concerned, we are implementing reforms which will help to increase the transparency of these three intelligence services and increase the confidence of the people in what is happening here. These three intelligence services need not serve party-political interests – neither black nor red nor others – but information on risks and the analysis of risk situations for the Federal Government. And we don't need to be ashamed of that either! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a comment on your criticism of the fact that I have declared that I would occasionally also take instructions if the lines I have proposed as the responsible head of the department were not complied with. Deputies! It is now one of the basic elements of our federal constitution that ministries are organized in a monocractic way and that those who are on top of it are called "ministers" and bear responsibility, and that is why they are responsible for ensuring that the line is carried out in accordance with the laws and the will of the Minister responsible. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8739	To make an actual correction, honourable Member has the power to do so. Stadler. – I ask for the facts to be corrected and for the area to be arranged.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8764	Mr President. High house! The Federal Minister has just said that Bassam Al Taher did not do so. It was submerged in April, but would not have left the country. It was only because of my press conference. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He never said that! You should be more careful!]] [[Further calls.]] I can quote him myself: ==References====External links== June 1995... [[Further calls and calls from SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Calm down! Do you have a problem? ==References====External links== In June 1995, the Minister of the Interior, in the original tone, claimed that the third party, now called Bassam Al Taher, had been in hiding since the day of the bombing. – The bomb attack was on the 11th. April. ==References== June 1995 is being reported...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8804	Deputies! I ask you not to correct newspapers, but the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8820	Mr President. I'm just trying to reveal my source. The search for the suspect had been reported by an investigating official of the Lower Austrian Criminal Department – in the "Standard" of the 8th century. June – the day after the discovery of the attack, i.e. on 20 June. April, posted abroad. Other such notifications are provided by the Director-General for Public Security.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8844	Deputies! I would ask you to pay particular attention to the statements made by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, because this took place under the chairmanship of my gymnasium.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8859	Mr President. In addition, the Federal Minister said wrongfully that I had made the claim, Mr Federal Minister ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website It was not at all present in April. It will be read in the minutes that I have not made this claim, but rather I have claimed – and I maintain this claim – that the Minister of State has denied any political connection for days – in the knowledge of the assassin Thaler, who was killed. This can be understood in the media.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8893	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8914	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka said earlier: No one should believe because we – that is, the ÖVP – are in a coalition, we bear the responsibility for the security policy of the Minister of the Interior and the SPÖ policy and the Federal Chancellor's selection policy for his cabinet members. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of the following: We do not believe that you assume this responsibility; just as we do not believe that you bear responsibility for the Semperit workers, that you bear responsibility for the workers in Donawitz in the Langware that you bear responsibility for resorts that our people have taken over. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I seem to have occurred to you somewhere because you're so nervous. But everyone knows that we are working with you in the fields of agriculture, tourism, issues of the European Union, national defence. No one should believe that you can solve these great tasks of the Federal Government alone for our country. – Take note!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8967	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. I would ask for the facts to be corrected and for the area to be arranged.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e8992	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister claimed that I had wrongly assumed that he had given an instruction to enable a terrorist organization in Austria. This finding by the Federal Minister is incorrect. I justify this as follows: I quote from the Ministry's closing act of 30. March 1995, where you, Mr. Federal Minister, received an information from your officials, signed with "Ministerial Councillor Dr. [[Calls:Aha]] Bertl", where the consequences of failure to comply with the OGH judgment are precisely explained. The conclusion in this Decision is as follows: However, with regard to any attacks in the near future, in the event of non-intervention by the Ministry of the Interior, the accusation of inactivity or abuse of office in the media could also be voiced. On the basis of the strong political component of this issue and the numerous links with political parties and officials, an instruction on the subject or agreement on further action is requested. So: The ministerial bureaucracy explicitly requests a decision from the Minister – and this decision is taken. ==References== On April 1, 1996, Mr. Security Director said that we also have a copy: ==References== 4. The Federal Minister decided in 1996 – he decided! – that there should be no consequences with regard to ERNK, only if further attacks can be carried back to this office. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would ask you not to come here and cancel a Member like me and to say that I would have said the untruth if you knew that we have your entire record in hand and decided clearly and gave you an instruction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9043	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9079	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the outbreak of our Federal Chancellor's feeling indicates that this ÖVP-SPÖ government is not a viable basis for resolving the problems it has given us in recent years. But please, Federal Chancellor, do not re-elect – it is not Parliament that creates problems. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You're getting weaker!]] [[Abg. Leikam: There you lose again! Absolutely understandable!]] It is becoming increasingly clear that it is the government that is creating the problems because it is acting with ministers who do not understand its craftsmanship. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One is an example of this, and others will follow. Mr Gaál! Unfortunately, Ebergassing wasn't a nightmare, as you might believe. Ebergassing is bitter reality, and Ebergassing was clearly left-wing terrorism. On the other hand, however, it is no matter where this terror comes from, everything must be done to clarify it quickly. However, for the Austrians, the impression is that this is not the case, Mr Gaál. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gaál! Ebergassing is reality, as is the reality, that a Wolfgang Purtscheller, a Horst H., a Susanne B. had already counted among the permanent visitors to the Oberwarter Roma settlement before the attack. The reality is, Mr Gaál, that on 4 October. The detonation in the Roma settlement took place on February 23, 30. And reality is, that's 5th. The survey started on February 7, 30 – after eight hours of delay. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was first reported!]] The reality is, Mr Gaál, that there have been numerous public appearances in Purtscheller with the clear objective of putting us into relation with the attack. For example, together with the colleague Stoisits, I have completed an appearance in the HBLA-Oberwart, in the cultural centre in Oberschütten, where this Mr. Purtscheller has repeatedly tried to get us into the vicinity of this attack. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Dunstkreis!]] This Mr. Purtscheller is acting there as an official speaker of the Federal Ministry of Education – highly paid from means of taxation to hate us liberals in schools. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Against Right Drives!]] Minister Scholten, who falls into the same category as One, finances other well-dominated actors, who are located in the dark circle of the Open House Oberwart, which is also well-instructed by Minister Scholten. Mr Gaál! Reality is: ==References== April is discovered by Ebergassing, Koni#ek and Thaler are the names of the two dead, who are clearly assigned to the far-left camp, and two more perpetrators come from it, as they are called wherever they are today. But reality is also, Mr Gaál, that the explosion on the night of the 10th to the 11th. ==References== And on the 10th. In April, Mr Purtscheller announced about the APA that there was information to him that the right-wing radical scene had planned a further attack for the Easter season. That is why he has been making provision for his personal security for some time. What kind of things are they, he didn't want to say for understandable reasons. – And on the night of the 10th to the 11th. April this explosion happened. It is clear to me that Ebergassing was a panic that this explosion was planned for a later date. One could also think that Ebergassing was not the first pan of left-wing extreme terror. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Were the letter bombs also left-wing extreme terror?]] Further to the facts, Mr Gaál: Reality is: ==References== April 6th, according to "Standard" Purtscheller takes a murder of 6th. 4. in the Upper Austrian Ried on the occasion of his departure to Mexico, where he is still likely to be present, although Director-General Sika has made it publicly clear that this murder in Ried has nothing to do with Mr Purtscheller and has already been clarified, this Director-General Sika, whose "Press" interview has, in the meantime, been much different, and many questions remain open to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: What about the letter bombs?]] Minister! The understanding of the Gendarmerie in Oberwart took place at eight hours late. Why? Four men leave, shortly after the detonation, audible throughout the superior. Why was the police not immediately called by those nearby, Mr. Minister? [[Abg. May. Stadler: 200 meters!]] Who has prevented the villagers from considering what happened there, Mr Minister? Who, before the arrival of the Gendarmerie and the EBT – Mr Minister – I would have liked to answer this question from you – changed the crime scene? The crime scene was demonstrated to have been changed before the arrival of these security forces, Mr. Minister. Who changed him? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Where is the list of the numbers of suspicious cars, whose label is "SV" for St. Veit or "SP" for Spittal? It is said to be an escort and an orion. It was also noted on the list a white Mazda 626, whose label begins with "HB" for Hartberg. Minister! Where is this list? Minister! What role do the people of "NEWS" play in and out of the open house of Oberwart at the time? Why is the local Kripo excluded from the investigations, Mr. Minister? Why is the lubricating action initiated by "NEWS" editors concealed by superstains, Mr. Minister? Why is the assurance of evidence prevented in this context? Did you ask Emil Bobi, the "NEWS" journalist, Mr. Minister? Why was the act of the Oberwart crime scene withdrawn once again like other acts before, Mr. Minister? - Why, why, why? Why is the hearing of suspects aborted in Vienna – on instructions? What roles do the names Horellet and Resinger play in this context, Mr Minister? [[Phonetic]] [[Phonetic]] It seems, Minister, that the authorities are constantly being hindered in their investigations if they want to reach a new direction of investigation. And to that end, the quote from Mr Sika's "Press" interview, which says that the media, the public and the politicians have put us in. In January 1994, we could not have said that these were not neo-Nazis, at least not the ones they are used to in the Vapo. If I had said that, I would have been executed publicly. We've been put in there. - That's what your Director-General Sika says. What does he mean, Minister? The impression arises that the investigators are constantly under political pressure. Minister! Have you ever considered the fact that there are crimes whose main purpose is to suspect others? Have you ever thought about using this as a pretext for other or other measures? Minister! A long time ago, an analytical discussion of the findings that you are sure to be aware of should have led to a different direction, in another direction, which is also expected to progress, because in the direction in which you find out, you have been in for too long. – Try differently, Minister! Force the accusations that you are rightly linked to those who write in the "TATsheet" – I quote: In order for the search to be unsuccessful, it is absolutely important that all keep their mouths shut. This concerns not only statements when any questions come from police, judicial and journalists, but also clumsy and tratsch in the scene. Minister! These are the people who support you. Get rid of these accusations! Otherwise, you are no longer portable for this Republic, especially as a security minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Too many incompatibilities are on the table. And I join what Hubertus Czernin wrote in the "profile": It is simply inconceivable that a minister of the interior remains who financially supports that scene that does everything to prevent investigations in certain directions that supports that scene whose willingness to violence has become apparent through the attack at Ebergassing.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9249	Mrs Stoisits is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give her the word. – speaking time: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9270	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr Lösnak is now a colleague in the second row. When he was still an interior minister, I rarely had the opportunity to say something about Dr. Löschnak that I would have liked. But from today's point of view and from what some colleagues from the Freedom Party and the ÖVP have said today, I tell you, Dr. Löschnak, that as the Federal Minister for the Interior and as the responsible for security in Austria, you have always had and still have my support in connection with the PKK and the political arm of the PKK in Austria. If, last year, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. came to the conclusion that not radicalization is what we want here in Austria, but the way the Federal Republic of Germany has chosen to ban the PKK, to ban cultural associations and cultural organizations of the Kurds, many of whom live in the Federal Republic of Germany, is not the Austrian way – because this leads to radicalization, as one sees from the example of the Federal Republic – then that is welcome. In connection with liberation struggles of oppressed peoples – that is what the Kurds are leading in Turkey, but not only in Turkey, but throughout Kurdistan – always neutrally behaved, and this Austrian tradition of showing itself as a neutral place – today has already been called the example of the PLO – is something whose maintenance must be of interest to all of us. And if non-radialization leads Austria to have a similar role to play in the role of intermediaries in connection with the legitimate concerns of the Kurds, as the tradition of Austria, under Bruno Kreisky, in its attitude to the PLO, you, Mr. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Today's colleague, have acted correctly. And if Mr. Federal Minister has acted this way one last year, he has done the right thing. What has happened since then, ladies and gentlemen, also shows that this Austrian attitude is correct. For a conversation is what we have to seek, and not a false interpretation of judgments. Mr Khol, you would have to know very well, but this morning you tried to offer a conscious misinterpretation of this decision, and I am particularly sorry to you. Dr. Khol! I cannot take Paul Kiss seriously in this regard, because he is not even here today man enough to repeat these accusations. Federal Minister! If your attitude towards the PKK, towards the ERNK in Austria, leads us to continue to live in peace and security – both for the Austrian population and for the numerous Kurdish citizens in Austria – then you have our support. Ladies and gentlemen! One cannot speak with a split tongue: one in Turkey, like the former human rights spokesman of the Austrian People's Party Dr. Höchtl, is committed to the rights of the oppressed and, in Austria, if it is politically opportunistic, say the opposite. That's not our style. This is the style of the ÖVP, which she has already taken from the liberals into the family community. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the current question debate is one with which I am particularly serious. And I find it really abominable, with which piety is being discussed here and with which Members of the Austrian National Council are acting with which piety is being done here. Dr. Haider is the grandmaster of piety. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will have to talk about your role in Oberwart and the letter bombs, lady! You played a very obscene role!]] Dr. Haider! The loathsome murders of Oberwart with the word "fall" to conjure up as you have done this several times, that says more than anything you could ever claim. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We will have to talk about your covert role in Oberwart!]] And you've done this several times. At your election campaign in Oberwart in November 1995, you did so with the words "the incidents of then". Four people died there! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We will still light up your role, Mrs. Colleague!]] If you don't even have that much character with the members who live there only in a call from your election campaign, Dr. Haider, how should we deal with you? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your role in bomb attack will still be to be clarified, lady!]] This show at the expense of the feelings of the survivors is just too cheap for me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You deliver a show!]] I deeply reject this way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The association "Roma von Oberwart" made a press statement last autumn in connection with the election appearance of Dr. Haider, a public statement, in which I noticed something at that time, which may not be so meaningful, but in this light is significant. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You played a very bad role!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We need to talk about this role]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's gonna be too clear what happened there!]] They write that more than a thousand condolences and condolences were received by politicians and politicians at the time in the presence of private individuals, institutions, public authorities, from abroad and abroad. But it was not a single letter from the F movement or from a functionary of the "F" from all over Austria below. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a shameless hypocrisy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's all I need to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's all I need to say! This mentality, which one no longer speaks so directly – in order to follow this thought – speaks more than a thousand words, ladies and gentlemen, that speaks more than a thousand words. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mrs Stoisits! We didn't want to condone the corpses like many others!]] If Mr Schweitzer is now in the first row in which he will hopefully never be, I also have to report something to you from Mr Schweitzer: He was at the time at the funeral of the Roma in Oberwart. And one of his then behavior was particularly striking [[Abg. May. Stadler: He didn’t push himself into the first row like you, so he would come on TV!]] He was one of the few, if not even the only politician, of the grieving family... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You operate shameless hypocrisy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9474	Mr Stadler! That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9500	... has not condoled, quite clearly and demonstratedly has not condoled. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In the first row you have cleared away the reservation staff of the ministers so that you can come on TV!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. This is intended for those who do not know it to provide information on the character of the colleagues of the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have no right at all to speak here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I could say a few other things about Mr Schweitzer, who may also say something about his human and political character, for example, that the successor he proposed to his councillor, whom he is about to put in charge, is a certain Mr Werner Gutleben, one of the supporters of the NDP's candidate in 1982 in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... in front of the attack!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have cleared the reservation staff from the ministers to get on television!]] On that, ladies and gentlemen, you should also lose a word. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who knew in the Green Club what was in the Kuvert?]] I do not repeat it, I leave it to you, ladies and gentlemen, to express an opinion on the following sentence here in the National Council, the people in the dusk of the Open House, Oberwart, say. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Explain this to the High House!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who knew in the High House and the Green Club what was in the Kuvert?]] The Open House Oberwart, a youth centre, which is promoted by the public hand, as hundreds of other youth centers in Austria, whose activists work for the most part voluntarily and free, by the word "dark circle", speaks for themselves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please what?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Alcoholism must be said!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: And drugs!]] Mr Schweitzer – I don't know where he was on the night of detonation – has asked the question here today Why did no one then alert the police or the Gendarmerie? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where were you?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9678	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm interrupting the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9702	I'll start the interrupted session again. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time has been stopped. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9726	Ladies and gentlemen! But not only the colleagues of the FPÖ who have the privilege of sitting here, but also others of the then "F" movement, today again FPÖ, have made statements after the homicide of Oberwart, which should still be heard today. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please explain why we have a "privileg" to sit here!]] The State Party of Burgenland of the Freedom Party, Dr. Wolfgang Rauter, immediately after the attack spoke of a tactically unfavorable time. What could he have meant by that? In a situation where four people die, how can one stay behind in the four families, children who are now without a father, speak of a tactically unfavorable time? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Abuse the funeral!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand! It's not human, it's not human. It's not human. This is really the cheapest thing I've heard in my life in connection with the suffering and fate of people last year. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Taferl cleans up at the funeral!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The one sitting here in the first row has not had at all a genius in the past year to link the victims of the homicide attack of Oberwart and thus also all the members of the armed forces to drug trafficking. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The police did this!]] However, it has been shown that none of the victims, nor any family member, ever had to deal with drug trafficking, smuggling of weapons, car-shipping. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For this she has been beaten by you!]] One is the fact, and from the very first moment the family said that two of the bomb victims had pre-punishment. A fine for a robbery, the second victim, Josef Simon, in his youth, as a youth, once made a break into a weekend hut, and therefore he was prepunished. If you have fallen victim to those who have been a youth in a weekend hut, and later you have fallen victim to a murder attack that was clearly racist, you are subject to most criminal acts, you are subject to serious crime, Mr. Dr. Haider, then I ask you: Can you still look in the mirror? [[Abg. May. Stadler: These were the prosecutor and the judge! That's why they ordered a house search!]] Mr Dr. Haider! In Oberwart, they did not even give up the courage to talk with the relatives. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You're talking about better knowledge!]] Stefan Horvath, the stepfather of a family, was there and wanted to talk to you. You have been called by your staff on the phone and said: I have to get out of here now! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You shot the prosecutor!]] That's how the scene was, it's spooky. – Half a year after the most serious racist attack in this Republic, Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You have a flourishing imagination!]] You are not even brave enough to face the relatives, Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With us are the mandaters, with you this is anyone!]] To sit here, to polemize, to pull off a cheap show, that can be anyone, but to look the relatives of the murder victims in the face, you don't have the courage to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You just became a master!]] [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] This hurts the family, even a year later. Dr. Haider, there's no need for any stupid grins, there's no distraction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9897	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I cannot tolerate expressions of this kind, neither the previous nor the one.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9912	Mr President. I'll take it back. The grin is not wrong, I hold it upright. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The "bless" does not take it back, Mr President!]] I am very happy to take back the "blessed" in order not to violate the dignity of the House at this moment. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] But those colleagues who see Dr. Haider can make a picture of the character, mind and heart of this person.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9957	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e9978	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What Mrs Stoisits has done in this debate was unique. It is enormous that a Member of this House should speak of piety when she refers to our group. Mrs Stoisits, in particular, is talking about piety, ladies and gentlemen. It has been shown how attentive and with what grief it has been to this funeral of the Oberwart-Sacrifice: She has only observed the liberal participants there and has performed her interpretations, her crazy interpretations. Mrs Stoisits, you were the ones who have shown the greatest piety on this day when we have all been with our relatives. You only have to sit in front of the camera so that you can sit in the first row, changing the taferls to give your grief the best. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Shame!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you're coming out of here and you're throwing up such things with the other Members. It's awful! But Your understanding of democracy is also reflected in the fact that you say to us: Members who have the "privileg" to sit here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Free!]] We already know what you want, Mrs Colleague. You have already said to us: The liberals are imprisoned for 20 years. That's your concept of democracy, Mrs Stoisits! If free mandates who have more than a million voters sit here, that's a privilege. We can probably only wait for how long we have this privilege from you and from the government representatives you support. – It is wonderful that you have made a clear commitment to democracy here. Keep this speech up, you'll be reminded of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Stoisits! It was with your mandates, who were always intent on defending Mr Purtscheller. In parliamentary questions, you said that it was against the rule of law, against human rights, that this Mr Purtscheller was taken up in the well-known Kirchweger House and his laptop was confiscated. Unbelievable what this is for an intervention in property law! It is also interesting that one speaks of ownership in connection with the Kirchweger House, of which we know who the operator is. The property is being disturbed. Incidentally – it has only happened by chance – was found there a guide to bomb trading; assisted by Mr. Interior Minister, that would have been only journalistic research. These are the problems that we want to address. You talked about political change. If I hear that! Who has tried to earn political small money over all the years that we have been waiting for these letter bomb attacks to be cleared up? It was you and you, by repeatedly bringing party politics into this disgraceful crime. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even now you've tried again. It is a great thing to ask Mr Schweitzer where he was at the time of this detonation, why he knows that there has been a time difference of eight hours. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's in the paper!]] Mrs Stoisits! This is not only in the paper, but it was explained by the then – unfortunately "then" – interior minister Lösnak in the committee. They asked him why he had the futility to research with the victims, with the families of the victims. To this he has answered you and us that at least at first sight it is strange that there is a detonation at a relatively small distance from these houses, these people do not come back for hours, but they do not leave anyone. That was the reason for these investigations. You seem to have failed to attend this committee meeting. Go inside, look at your writings, but subordinate Don't let our fellow Members have any monsterities! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another word on the whole matter PKK. You too, Mrs Stoisits, have mentioned this. They referred to Kurd's human rights and meant that the PKK had to be given a field of activity. Mrs Stoisits! We do not like you the legitimate concerns of a population group – we have no sympathy at all for the Turkish regime’s practices – with the interests of a left-wing radical terrorist organisation. That is the difference between you and us, Mrs Stoisits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was also said by the Minister of the Interior that the security report had shown that there had been no attacks since 1993 and that this was the right way. Minister of the Interior! Firstly, this is not at all true because there have been fires against Turkish institutions in recent times. [[Interlocutory call from Federal Minister Dr. Einm.]] How do you know that? – You have not explained it; but you know tax-free that it has not been the PKK. Very interesting! [[Abg. May. Stadler: She can't be! That doesn't fit into the world picture!]] Are you telling us who is still interested in damaging Turkish institutions? Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with you, if you say that we are therefore outside of these terrorist actions, because the PKK has been very well directed, because it has created an organisational platform here in Austria to organize its attacks and facilities in the neighbouring country, Minister of the Interior! It is a question of whether we have the right, only because you believe that then we have our peace and quiet to provide a platform for these terrorists in accordance with the Floriani principle, so that they can in other democratic states, in other European states, their dissidents. To discuss this would, I think, also interesting. This is a lot of problems that always relate to you, Mr Minister. They're just blind on the left eye. In this area, you are impoverished and know that this is not so bad anyway. At Ebergassing you said that they were left anarchists, but immediately opposed the fact that perhaps political content could have been behind them. What else, Minister of the Interior? What would the discussions have looked like here in this House, if this "accident" – under quotation marks – had not happened in Ebergassing if this attack had been successful, Minister of the Interior? You wouldn't have been the first if you were about 20 years old. April half of Vienna would have been without electricity, who would have said that was a new category of right-wing terror? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Purtscheller predicted it!]] Is it not interesting, Minister of the Interior, that Mr Purtscheller, who is often quoted, has predicted this attack? But all these are not topics for you. You say again today that you do not need to find out here because there is nothing against Mr Purtscheller. – This is the oneness we criticize on you, Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is his friend!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not true either that you did not know whether Mr Purtscheller was here or not. It was a coincidence, in your opinion, that before the last series of letter bombs, a journalist spoke to your Mr. Director General for Public Security and informed him that Mr. Purtscheller had happened at random before this last series of letter bombs in Vienna. The Director-General for Public Security said: Yeah, we know that. What is it now, Minister of the Interior? Are you in contact with Mr. Purtscheller, or have you put the state police on him, or do you really not know where he is? - That's all inconsistencies! To the honourable Member, Mr Gaál: You said quite vehement in the first place – perhaps believe You actually do it –: There is no left-wing terror in Austria. You said that was a serious thing – I'm quite right for you: That's a serious thing. I say to you, Mr Gaál: It does not matter whether there is a left or right terror; any kind of political or non-political use of violence must be condemned to the strictest and must be clarified without If and But, without being self-righteous or left-wing. It is all in power to do to clarify these crimes, Mr Gaál! But it is simply not true that there is no leftist terrorist scene. Not only do I say that not only says a liberal, but it also says a intelligence expert associated with your camp, who clearly demonstrated the roots and cross-links of left-wing terror to Austria, who has pointed out the roots of America and has even called a contact address, the so-called office community of Schottengasse, where various organisations that are supposed to be committed to anti-militaryism and to a military environmental protection are organized. This intelligence expert associated with you has clearly explained which network, which European network, which also includes the eastern intelligence services with their know-how, there and where Austria – unfortunately – is involved. But one closes one's eyes to such things. This expert pointed to an example, namely, that it was about 8th. A fire attack against the American school in Vienna last October. This has not been noticed further because – at least publicly – it seems to have not been true – it has been recognized very well in the security departments and in the state police that, at the same time as this attack against the American school, there have been attacks, fires against American institutions worldwide. There have also been attacks again recently against mineral oil companies, against large companies, against pharmaceutical companies – all in a network of left-wing terrorists, Mr. Gaál! That's exactly what it's all about, it's to be clarified and clarified. This expert has even said that there are close links between left-wing extremists and left-wing and right-wing terrorists, because they all agree on this kind of means. Federal Minister! That's why: They're going out here and messing up everything. You say that what the liberals are accusing here is all wrong, and your own Director-General admits in a press article that there has been political pressure in the investigation of the bombing attacks. This must even have been very massive, for he said: We would have been politically executed if we had made our investigations in a different direction than in the far right scene! Minister of the Interior! Who has put this pressure on the Director-General? It can only have been a member of the government. Was that perhaps the Minister of Art? Or was that perhaps the Minister of Family Affairs or the Minister of Women? – The answer to this would also be interesting: Who is in a position to exert political pressure on the state police to carry out investigations, that they can only identify in one direction? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! If that turns out to be true, then you have to explain what responsibility you have if, because of this political pressure, the letter bomb attacks could not be clarified or could not be prevented for the future. That is also your responsibility, Minister of the Interior. You can't steal and say that's all the party tactics and polemics of the liberals! We simply do not want people like Mr Purtscheller to make the forecasts of the attacks, to remain unblemished by your justice or by your state police. We do not want a Mr Purtscheller to become an expert on television and give good advice, and above all we do not want people like Mr Purtscheller to go to schools and there try to convince our young people of extreme ideologies, ladies and gentlemen. – These are the problems we see in your camp. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The President of the Federal Chancellor's speech was to find out which conflict potentials were created by you. For the ÖVP is now going down here and says that it is all to be criticized, of course, and Mr Kukacka has said that the Minister of the Interior has bizarre views that he is the voice of the left-wing alternatives. – However, the ÖVP cannot easily stand out of responsibility, for there is the principle of unanimity in the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. You can't say: That's another government, we're something very own. Ladies and gentlemen! Both government parties have the responsibility for this government policy, and you from the People's Party will not be able to bear any responsibility if the threat that the Federal Chancellor has expressed here: that he will help you to ensure order in the national defence policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We have nothing against anyone personally, but we demand that a minister of the Interior do his work properly and to protect the Austrians and in the sense of the Constitution. We do not want a minister who is opposed to the German army, we do not want a minister who wants to organize a super secret service in his own place, and we do not want to hinder an interior minister, the investigation into one of the biggest crime cases in the Second Republic. Mr Kiss! A few days ago, in a debate, you asked for confidence in the Federal Minister. I can only tell you: If you do, this is your thing; You'll have to answer that. Our trust certainly does not have this Minister of the Interior, and he will not be able to win it either!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10153	I call Mr Leikam. The speaking time is known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10174	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are witnessing today the continuation of the debate as it was brought to this House at the end of the last parliamentary session by the Members of this House, in particular by Mr Stadler. It is no surprise, therefore, that the speakers of the Liberals are today making a further renunciation of a repulsive casting campaign, as we have known it for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No giving up, something new comes into it every day!]] Even today, nothing new has been brought to light by the speakers of the liberals. There are old-known arguments, assumptions, accusations, rumors, which have been re-emerged by the liberals in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Einm. [[Abg. Dr Graf: We have at least learned that the Minister has misinformed Parliament!]] The background of the action of the liberals here in Parliament is certainly not the concern for internal security in our country. The background of your campaign, which you have been running on the Minister of the Interior for some time, is clearly seen in the fact that your party observer is facing a process with the Minister of the Interior. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is new to me! I didn't know!]] This upcoming trial Dr. One against Dr. Haider, of course, precipitates his shadows – no question at all! For Dr. Haider himself knows very well that he cannot maintain his claims in this upcoming process. And what do you do in such a case when you know what's going on? It is tried to lower the opponent in favor of the public. One emptys dirty dirt over the opponent and hopes that some of it will already hang. We already know this strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, from other areas. It is not the first process to be carried out by Dr. Haider, nor is it the first process that Mr. Dr. It's going to lose hair. But the procedure is the same everywhere: Previously, one has tried to make his opponents bad in the public, in order to be able to give the impression, at least in public favor, that one has to do with one who is not good in public opinion. – So it was in trial against the Chamber of Workers in Carinthia and in particular against the President of the Chamber Quantsnig, since he lost everything. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm so glad you don't hurt us! Thank you!]] For example, it was in trial against the current clubman and former head of state Dr. Peter Ambrozy: Imaging on the running band – process lost; however, many months after the election. So it was in the trial against Mr. Doralt, so it was in the accusations against the principal school director of Krenglbach. I could also list a number of cases in which there has been the same procedure on the part of the liberal party observer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What number of businesses do these processes carry?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Kurds policy has already been pointed out by several speakers. The Kurdish policy of Austria has brought security and recognition to our country, and this must be very valuable to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very glad, ladies and gentlemen, that the voters were on 17 November. In December, a decision was taken in the direction that the Social Democrats were once again the determining force in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The second worst result!]] For today we have had to experience with horror, with shudders, that both speakers of the Austrian People's Party and speakers of the liberals of radicalization in our country have spoken. The Socialists in this country will always reject radicalisation, they have always done it, they will do it, and they will do so in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They will get to know our bitter resistance when it comes to defending internal security in this country with radicalization. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Radicalisation contributes to the support of terrorists! Radicalisation contributes to the support of terrorists!]] We will continue the path that we have also taken in the past. Austria has become a safe country on this path, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it surprises me why the party observer of the liberals is so sensitive at once when there is a discussion here about suspects who are known, and about statements by the Minister, who are also known to whom there are no more open questions at all. It's probably a few years ago, but it's not forgotten, Dr. Haider: Your meeting with the "Bomben" burger has also shaken this country. As you have not shown this sensitivity, which you focus on in these days, in these weeks again and again. Explain to the House what the content of the conversation with the "Bomben" burger has been! Tell us what you so urgently had to talk to him at that time! It would certainly interest us. They measure by two measures. Tell us what was the content of the conversation with Mr Burger, which you held in Moosburg! We'd all be very interested. It has today been spoken of by denunciantism and the accusation has been raised by the liberals towards the Minister. – Mr Dr. Haider! Please tell us how your action is in Carinthia when you advertised in advertisements – text –: Help you find out! If you are aware of an injustice or scandal in your community or neighborhood, please write to me, Dr. Haider – also anonymous – we will follow each of these instructions! – This is a public call for denunciantism in your role as the head of the state in Carinthia. Dr. Haider! Who are your people who follow each of these cases? How many people, how many Carinthians have turned to you and told you things from the neighborhood or from the congregations? Who in your party did you think of as the one to carry out these reconnaissances? Who are these people? What about Mr. Rumpold? - Or: Why Trust You're not our executive? Why Trust You're not the police, the gendarmerie, the prosecutor's office? Why do you want to do things that people anonymously entrust to you? We have confidence in our executive. We believe that the executive is doing good work. You don't seem to have that trust. You always use the executive only for your party policy purposes. And then – it should also be remembered – if our executive is successful, as in the case of Ebergassing or in the case of the Russian Mafia, then this executive must not announce her successes, because there is an investigative judge who happens to be a security spokesperson of the liberals who says: That remains to be said, there must be no information available to the public. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Ah so! Unheard of! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Unheard of!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There the executive was successful, and this does not fit into the political image of the Freedom Party. It must always be kept in the public's mind that the executive does not go any further than that of the Minister of the Interior. That's why you probably have work enough when you think in your own series about what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This Minister of the Interior is responsible for internal security, and he is able to do so. He succeeds, and his predecessors have also succeeded in ensuring internal security in this country! But I am already wondering about you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because the PKK is not a matter for the Minister of the Interior alone. Why silence? Your Minister of Foreign Affairs to the PKK? Why is there not a clear opinion on this too? Let this not only be the topic of the Minister of the Interior, you also have the responsibility in this direction. And you should also take care of this responsibility and carry it along! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Over 30 bloody attacks, terrible events, including some dead, occurred in the Federal Republic of Germany. Since 1993, there has been relative peace in our country. I join all those speakers who have meant that it is right – even the liberal Member of the European Parliament has said that: As long as there is peace here, you should not change this situation! – I am also of the opinion that this is a way that is the right one – and of course you can always discuss whether it is actually the case. But, I believe, we are primarily bent on ensuring security in our country. Of course, I still have to address justice because it is also mentioned again and again and because Mr Schweitzer and Mr Scheibner spoke about exerting pressure from the Minister of the Interior on his officials. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because he said that himself!]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! In addition, it is noted that: If there is someone in this country who continuously tries to pressure the civil service, the executive, on justice, then it is the guardian of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr. Dr. Ofner! You were once Minister of Justice of the Republic, and I don't know if a Minister of Justice Dr. Ofner would have done the same as the Chief State Prosecutor Graz did. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Eben!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: How does he do that? Mr. Leikam! How does he do that? That must be something quite refined, for he must not give instructions!]] In the spring of 1991, there were discussions about Magdalene in Carinthia. The public prosecutor's office, Klagenfurt, did not decide how Dr. Haider had it executed in a weekly pre-announcement, in the form of public pressure from the prosecutor's office. Political mandates have not been made available by the Public Prosecutor's Office. What was the result? – Mr. Dr. Haider accused the senior prosecutor of bowing to the Freemasons in Carinthia, he – Haider – will not take note of this decision, and, ladies and gentlemen, he has an hour later in the building of the State Court of Klagenfurt – in the building of the Landesgericht Klagenfurt! – a press conference in order to fight against the chief prosecutor there. That has never been the case in this Second Republic. It was only a statement from the Oberstaatsanwaltschaft Graz that prevented the press conference from taking place in the building of the Landesgericht. The press conference then took place in front of the building of the Regional Court, and all the officials of this House still remember today with horrors when a jolly, roaring crowd of liberals moved to the national court and there was public action against the justice there. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: And who put people up? Was that Haider? - Probably!]] That's pressure on the public! This is pressure on independent justice in our country. And before you continue to shake the Minister, look at your own series of order and cleanliness! There are enough people you can deal with!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10435	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. I would ask you to reflect the facts to be corrected and the situation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10460	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam has listed a number of processes that I believe have lost. I have not run a trial against the Chamber of Labour, so I can't lose it either, nor has I ever complained to the principal school director from Krenglbach, quoted by him, or persecuted me in any way. I would ask you to note that these claims are absolutely false. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A Biederman!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Yes, I do, my dear colleague. There has never been a process, there has never been a complaint, there has never been a procedure. And if anyone here is guilty of injustice, then the colleague is Leikam and not my person! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, He claimed that as the head of the state, I had given the task of discouraging citizens of this country. That's not true. [[Abg. Leikam: (keeping a paper in height) Please! The hairstyle's not right anymore, Dr. Haider! The hairstyle has become another!]] – It’s true, Mr Leikam: When I came to the office of the head of state, I received from the office which I had taken over from my predecessor, who was a socialist head of state, an act of detachment of the opponents of power plants against a KELAG project by Mr. Central Works Councilman of KELAG, who was sent to Mr. Landeshauptmann Wagner. That's the truth! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Third point: He said that we had held a press conference with a grueling amount before the Landesgericht Klagenfurt. I notice: A grueling amount may not have been because journalists are present at a press conference. [[Abg. Leikam: Free Partygoers!]] If he insults the journalists as a "grooling crowd", this is his case, we are at least without a party people, without followers, but with journalists in front of the national court and have presented there the foundations of our criticism of the decisions. The journalists will think a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10547	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10568	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To Mr Leikam I would like to say that his remarks are absolutely ridiculous, and, as our clubman has already said, they are also wrong. In total, I must say, it was the analysis of an uninformed person. You've proved this to me today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: I didn't expect anything else!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: But what you said, don't say!]] I would very much like to say something about this. Mr. Leikam has already raised the same accusation, but I also told him at the time that I am not here in my capacity as a judge, I cannot blame anyone here, nor any national officials or teachers, because here is not... [[Abg. Leikam: This is the fatale!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: You should step back!]] You can't step back as a judge. You are so unattended by all the laws of state law and constitutional law that you can only be surprised that you are sitting there, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: You abuse your judicial office!]] If the Minister wants one, he could explain what Mr Leikam has made me an accusation, because he has the power to do so, I am not, because I am acting here as a Member. I would like to say to Mrs Stoisits: That is why I agree with your speech, because I admit that you are often saying something I am convinced of, especially in social matters, and I am not afraid to tell you that I agree with you. But I think that your today's indignant statements to us, in order to say it in your way of expression, are really favourable. To say it with my expression: I really find them tasteless. They accuse us of who condoled. They have obviously counted the condolences letters that have come to the sufferers of Oberwart and count on them. I really find that tasteless, Mrs. Stoisits! And one thing I would also like to say: Unfortunately, I also learned how you behaved there at the funeral. In order to be on television in the first row, you have taken the Taferl away from Mrs. Rauch-Kallat and placed yourself on the chair for Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, because you had no place reserved for you. And there you want to go and throw us and blame us because none of us would have condoled. I really find that scandalous, and it contradicts the truth too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't know who all of us were in charge: I was not there, but I remember the President-in-Office was there, the colleague Ofner was there. They've also condoled, and they can still tell you about your thousand condolences letter. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] In any case, I find it tasteless. However, I would now like to return to the reply of the Minister's question. Mr Leikam has said that it is unnecessary for us to break this debate, unless everything is clear anyway. We have not yet been aware of the position of the Minister on this matter in Purtscheller, which is why we have also put this question. But it is quite possible that you, as a representative of the Government Party, have better information from the Minister than we do, which I would very much regret. Minister! I am actually amazed at the fact that you have answered question 2, whether you have been found against purchellers, with a smooth no, and say that there is no suspicion at all as regards participation in Ebergassing. I have to say that I have to smile at something, because Purtscheller was one – as we have heard many times today – who predicted this ten days before the attack, and then this attack actually happened. In any other case, as far as ridicules are concerned, such a person should have been consulted, investigations should have been initiated against them, and would have been carried out, in any other case such statements would have been taken seriously. But because it is Mr Purtscheller, because it is about someone who is in the left dark circle, obviously has not been determined in the circle of friends. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: What does that mean, "left dunstkreis"?]] You have not seen any reason to initiate an investigation procedure. And I really think that is very strange, Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the time, too – and this has already been done today – it was precisely known that Mr Purtscheller had been caught on the occasion of these incidents in the Wielandgasse, that he had found a notebook and that a procedure had been initiated, an advertisement according to § 175 StGB. But all this is not a reason for you to take responsibility when a very serious attack occurs, and to initiate an investigation procedure against him. It is, after all, a task to find out against such persons who come into suspicion of being an instigator, a helper, or who know something about this whole thing. And that, Mr Minister, you cannot tell me that no one in the police sector and no one in your dark circle has known from a certain area of the Purcheller to the perpetrators and even from a fellow know-how. You just can't tell me that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the executive would really be as unsuspecting as you want to represent it, then I must say that you could not continue to boast with a 47 per cent reconnaissance rate, because then the reconnaissance rate would be zero. Only: I know very well, with all the small offences, there is a very hard investigation, but when it comes to clarifying political offences, or to perceiving friends, then suddenly stop all investigations. We have often experienced this enough in the past, especially when it comes to socialists. I know that enough and everyone else too, and you continue this. They do not continue with economic criminals, but they continue where it is about circles associated with your ideology. Ladies and gentlemen! I really share Mr Stadler's suspicion that you simply didn't want to be determined towards Purtscheller. I also find it striking that, as has already been quoted today, Mr. Sika said: We were only in one direction investigating, we were blind on the left eye. We have been put into these unilateral procedures. You are obviously blind to another group, Mr. Minister, who is also part of the extreme circle of the left and, so to speak, the cradle of the later perpetrators. I always wonder: There is the "Revolution Brauhof", and what is happening there is the form that I already believe you should step in here. [[Abg. Wabl: Have you ever been there?]] I expect a report from you, or have you ever had a report on the "Revolution Brauhof"? For example, I quote from the 69 report: "But we will not let ourselves continue to be against this state to be this economy. It always depends above all on who is to be sprayed away." – These are clearly anarchist and terrorist movements. It goes on to say: "To be contrary to Austria is only the reasonable consequence of all those who do not want to subordinate their lives to the merciless tact of the factory." – This is the "Revolutionsbrauhof". [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There is also an annoyed for the anarchist bookstore. I really want to know, Mr Minister, whether you are making investigations or whether we must be afraid that you are blind to this eye too, that you are not at all investigating it. Or did you also donate there? I'd be very interested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any event, I find it very difficult that such groups can spread throughout the university area, which clearly call for the decommissioning of the state, which clearly acknowledges its anarchist ideas. Minister! I expect you to find out in this direction too, because that is also a matter of security. Today, Mr Gaál said that security is a very important need. That's quite clear. However, this also includes observing and controlling left-wing extremities. Mr. Gaál claims that there is no left-wing extremism or left-wing terrorism in Austria. We have experienced him, and I say that this'revolution brewer', that these people who are behind him are the group from which the later terrorists come. They want to destroy the state, they want to destroy the institutions of the state. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Such people who claim that there is no such scene, as Mr Gaál, Mr Leikam, and also the Minister himself, simply want to spread sand into our eyes. And I am really surprised that the Federal Chancellor sees no need for action here. Mr. Bundeskanzler says in the "Presse" of 22. April, this Minister of the Interior is absolutely operational. I believe that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is subject to a fatal error. We have already experienced that he is very often subject to a fatal error, especially in the area of the selection of ministers; lastly with Minister Staribacher, and with the Minister of Health it was the same. We've already experienced all of this. I believe that the Federal Chancellor is wrong if he continues to hold this Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really understand the Austrian People's Party either. Mr Kiss, where have you been today? Where are you at this discussion? I really miss her. You'll send someone out. [[Call the ÖVP: There he sits!]] He's missing out on the discussion. He did not speak, although he was one who even claimed before the election that this minister was unbearable to Austria. Only after the election – I have already said it – does he dare to say nothing at all because of coalition loyalty or fear that he or his party might have disadvantages. And I really find that objectionable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic also says that he has no reason to distrust of the Minister of the Interior One and also the court proceedings, the criminal proceedings would not be of importance, because, as he says, disagreements about the courts are being held and One thing is not the first, then I would like to escape: This is also an error of the Federal Chancellor. This is not about giving out disagreements in criminal proceedings against One, but about an official offence. This Minister of the Interior is accused of having committed an official abuse, and this cannot be seen as if it were just a different opinion. For us, ladies and gentlemen, this Minister of the Interior is not only operational, but also extremely dangerous and aloof.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10760	The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e10784	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In one, I can give honourable Members Kukacka the right to say that he knows what he is talking about. But that is probably the only thing where he and so many others are right here, because I cannot defend myself after this debate of the impression that some in this House can no longer stand apart from facts and fiction, poetry and truth, dream and reality. In the film, in literature, it's a great means of art when the different levels are so stuffed and pasted that you can't finally see anymore, where is the true level, where is the fictitious level, where is the actual action, where is the fictitious action. But if it is the same as we had to experience here today that, for example, Mr Haider can no longer distinguish himself from his fictitious age ego, the Alfons Haider, who plays in the "Kaisermühlen-Blues", and no longer know that the fictitious haider in the "Kaisermühlen-Blues" brings the real haider words, then it will be problematic. And that's the real thing. Mr Haider, you may not know, but your age ego in the film, the Alfons Haider, just quoted Jörg-Haider's words. You may not have noticed, but this is certainly a very modest, but also an art. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you write the text?]] Poetry and reality, dream and reality, ladies and gentlemen – there we have another artist in this metier, that is Mr. Ewald Stadler. He goes out here and claims that he only talks about facts, always using terms like "unbelievable", "I am stunned", "unbelievably stunned". [[Abg. May. Stadler: Fuck?]] You said "ducky" on Friday, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't say that! "Ducky" isn't part of my vocabulary!]] It's in the protocol. You're welcome to correct it. You said that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I make every bet with you that I didn't say that! I bet for a bottle of wine!]] This is your way of dealing with each other: to act as if you could and would not understand this reality at all, but at the same time to claim that you fully understand it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Please talk about sperm!]] Mr Stadler, if you go out here and on the one hand present Mr Purtscheller as the perpetrator or a possible culprit, but on the other hand you call Mr Purtscheller as your witness, as your witness against the Minister of the Interior, as your witness against Mr Prader, then there is something wrong with your presentation. The different levels have slipped through you again. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Oillinger, this is a contradiction!]] But this is a typical phenomenon with you, in science, in medicine known as syndrome, as a perpetrator-sacrifice-reversal syndrome, I would call it with you. You have been suffering from this disease for a long time now, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where's Mr. Purtscheller? Tell us!]] Either Mr Purtscheller is credible or he is unbelievable. Either he or she is highly criminal, then you should not use this very Mr Purtscheller as your witness against others, against the Minister of the Interior or against Mr Prader, or Mr Purtscheller is in fact completely right, but then you cannot get him out here and call him possible perpetrators in your request. Yes, do you really know what you're committing when you call more and more people in this Republic with full names – as is happening today – and here you refer to as perpetrators? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Allow an intermediate call! Purcheller has already said x-times, he's complaining me! He hasn't complained to me to this day!]] Yeah, that's a level. Mr Purtscheller cannot complain to you, Mr Stadler, because he is abroad, and of course the question is legitimate: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] Why is he abroad? Maybe it can be related to you, too. I do not judge Mr Purtscheller. After everything I know about this Mr Purtscheller, I do not want to say what his motives are. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I already do!]] But if I remember the campaign you led here in this house about a year ago, I must say that I am not surprised that people who are trying to introduce you here as a perpetrator are fleeing abroad. I don't wonder. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How do you know he's abroad?]] Mr Stadler! They called Mr Purtscheller, on the grounds that he had made cryptic remarks about the attack, that he had made these cryptic indications a week before the attack, and that it proved that Mr Purtscheller must probably be one of the perpetrators. That was your conclusion. They did not say so, but that is the only acceptable conclusion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are certain suspicions!]] Mr Stadler! Do you really know that it was Mr Haider who, about a week before the attack, before the letter bomb attack on Mrs Loley, also said that another letter bomb attack was in the house, and that one would probably put that back into the shoes? What about your perpetrator-sacrifice theory, Mr. Stadler? [[Abg. May. Posch: How does he know?]] This is your way of dealing with each other: with suspicion, with prejudice. This is your way of dealing with poetry and reality. Mr Stadler! ==References====External links== Mr Bassam al Taher, who is known as the perpetrator, announced publicly that this is a perpetrator, at a time when this statement has not yet been made public before you. It was before you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, who, if I remember correctly, was still on the night when the victims of Ebergassing, in which the two cold bodies were found, called the perpetrators by name. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not true at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schweitzer of your party was the one who here in the House called a name that could only be known to him because this name was found by the police in an established database in the context of a house search in the Ernst-Kirchweger House. Mr Schweitzer has only been able to know this name on the basis of facts known only to the security authorities. That's the way you're dealing with this, and today you've provided another example of this by calling a possible suspect with full name. With full name! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who do you mean?]] I do not give a name here, Mr Schweitzer. It was you who mentioned the name, and I would just like to refer to it in order to characterise your nature of the dispute, as Mr Stadler told you last Friday. He was the first to put this new culprit theory into space. He said: "Today, we are stunned in the press that there has been a arrest, a arrest of a alleged perpetrator known for months." Mr Stadler, I have read the "Press" of Friday. In the "Press" of Friday there is nothing of a arrest. You know that very well. I'll read to you: "The mysterious fourth man is already in the sight of the investigative authorities. The well-known unknown is still in the anarchoscene." These are the statements that were to be read in the press. It is not in any syllable, in any sentence, that this person would have been arrested on Friday. They also know very well that he has not yet been arrested. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A little further! Read more!]] They have made this claim alone in order to actually influence the investigations against certain persons in order to achieve a pre-conception by the designation of a name first and, secondly, to influence the investigations in a certain direction. You know very well that this person has not yet been arrested, at that time – I do not know if he is now arrested – on Friday, at least he has not yet been arrested. Mr Stadler! What you are doing here, namely innocent people – and for everyone who has not yet been transferred, the presumption of innocence has to be applied – to suspect that members of our club are also suspected of standing in the league with the terrorists is a very bad method. Mr Stadler, you're a poison sprayer!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11007	Deputies! This expression will be discussed in the next presidential term. – Ladies and gentlemen, how much hatred comes into this house is really not clear to me. In any case: That's not good.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11022	I don't think it was me who built a new suspect. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Movement in the ranks of the liberals.]] It was the honourable Member Stadler, the innocent person, members of our club or persons from outside, who at that time did not have a conviction against which it might have been determined or is simply accused, as he or Mr Schweitzer mentioned, that they are working in this environment, that they are practically suspects of crime. That wasn't my method. I take note, Mr President, of what you have said, but I think it is also legitimate, Mr President, for one to oppose these evil accusations. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Incredible!]] It cannot be assumed that here someone simply goes out and actually mixes facts and fiction in any way and then pretends to be reality. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! You've done pre-condemnification, and you do it again and again. This is your way of putting the facts on the head. I'll tell you one thing: Today we are discussing Ebergassing, although there is not only Ebergassing, although still – and this is much bigger in its importance – the murders in Oberwart have not been clarified, although all the letter bomb attacks with clear political allocations, with confession letters, have not yet been clarified. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Not just!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It's all related! That's all together!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this situation, you go here and focus the public discussion on the subject of unexplained political terrorist attacks on Ebergassing, on the possible connection you have claimed that the Ebergassing agents, the coal-cooled Ebergassing agents, are also dealing with the handling that may be responsible for all other murders, which are, so to speak, in a relationship with all others. To this fact, to this fiction you will reduce your discussion here in this House. And it is not possible and unthinkable to start from this kind of discussion and the kind of... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you still defending the bombs? Or what do you want?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has his own interest in it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] How did you get the claim? How do you come to this claim, Mr Haider, that I am defending the bombing forces? I would point out to you, on the basis of facts, that it is also necessary for you to deal with facts and fiction. Mr Haider! Study the Alfons Haider! Study him, study your fictitious age ego, and then you may become aware of how you actually act. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, yes!]] I would like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the liberals: Today I have studied for the first time the criminal charges made by the Gendarmerie Niederösterreich, by the criminal police department of the State Army Command of Lower Austria, against which potential offenders are being committed. [[Abg. Scheibner: How did you get that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where did you get the ad?]] I have to tell you that there are things inside, there are allegations that you have repeatedly sent to the public over the last few months, which in no way can stand a discussion, a serious discussion. And you know this, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where did you get the ad?]] They know this, for example, as regards the ad based on the dispute between Haider and Jasmin Randall, the Upper Regional Court of Vienna, for example, has pointed out that Mr. Haider is no longer allowed to spread certain claims, with regard to the display of the State Army Command of Lower Austria: "The ad cannot, however, cite the shadow of evidence of this suspicion, so that it is unsuitable as proof of the correctness of the defendant's claim." [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The defendant! That can't be an ad!]] That is what the Oberlandesgericht points out about this dispute between Mrs Randall and Mr Haider. This sets out the Oberlandesgericht on a criminal ad made by the State Army Command of Lower Austria, which is the basis for all your public discussions, but which is obviously inappropriate, in fact to provide evidence of the facts. On the contrary! If the Oberlandesgericht finds out, here are in the ad...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11210	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11226	... there is no evidence available here, then the need to involve the security authorities or their sloppy investigation in the debate on this debate on the Ebergassing case.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11256	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has made an actual correction. Please display the facts to be corrected and the area.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11280	I correct the claim made by Mr Ollinger that I would have called the names of the perpetrators on the night of the attack. It's true that I'm on the 20th. In April 1995 at noon, after being presented by the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on the Interior, as far as he was aware, I mentioned the names of Konicek and Thaler in my press release after I had read them in a newspaper before. That is to say, Mr Oellinger, please do not mix facts and fiction! –, I have in no way received the names in any wrong way, but from the newspapers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11311	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11332	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have it relatively simple: Two of my previous speakers, Mr Gaál and Mr Leikam, have set up the pod for me today. You have pointed out that I have not taken a relatively restrained position in the matter of Kurds and their organizations on television for too long. On this basis, I should like to take the floor today with special emphasis. That's what I think I'm doing. But I really don't understand one thing. First of all, I do not understand the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United States, who is blatantly holding back and who apparently does not go to the public, even to Parliament's public. If he did, he could also, in his sense – I am convinced – clear out many things, regulate many things. I do not understand, however, the statements of one or another of my previous speakers, who have been sad and insecure and larmoyant. I am a little excited like gentlemen, like my immediate predecessor, who otherwise stumble and burst in front of self-confidence and eloquence, as they struggle around and stutter around outside, because it seems not easy for them to go outside, perhaps even easy inside, things like the attack of Ebergassing and the contexts that can be read from it to represent and defend here in the High House. It's really inconceivable: There is no one smaller than the Director-General for Public Security with not only one but even with two worrying interviews to the public. No one then goes, if he claims that the security executive had been pushed in the wrong direction by their surveys, the police who had been "improved" the collecting bodies, as he would have expressed himself if they had allowed themselves to take a different position than that each terror came from the right, not his boss, that is, not the minister, and initiates any proceedings against him, for example, a disciplinary procedure, says at least, that is not true, which the Director-General claims in the public, but one simply fails to hesitate and enter. Then a well-known criminal officer, a member of the state police concerned, writes a best-selling book in which he reveals that the state police have been repeatedly tied up and bound by the political side. And what happens? Is the book being confiscated? Is the author persecuted with all the consequence of the right to serve and what else there is? - Not at all. One goes here like Blessed Emperor Ferdinand II. on the occasion of the Revolution 1848 and raises the question: Yes, can he say that to the public at all? And then, ladies and gentlemen, there is a political adabe, the so-called Mr Purtscheller, who has so often called today, with whom you must not forget one – I have not been a special term at all until then –: There has been an answer to a question by the predecessor of the Minister, one by the Minister Löschnak, an answer to the question, which was an authoritative of the Greens. Because the Greens have seceded the Minister, why the poor Purcheller was arrested at the time, although he is a journalist, a victim, a poor devil, and one was still so discreet and took and evaluated his electronic notebook. And there is a significant sentence that was certainly not intended and that has embarrassed all those who are among the friends of the Purcheller, a sentence in the request response to Löschnak's, that a note in this electronic book indicates that he was involved in at least one explosive attack or preparation in any form. We must not forget that there have been such things in this context! And what is the reaction when politicians, when MPs in this House, when media, when the public starts to stir up about this event? Is the Minister now coming and coming to the public, putting everything on the table, explaining that he will give information without reservation? - No, he doesn't. He answered a parliamentary question, which is significant in its division, as follows: Question 1: No. I'm sorry, but the Question 3: I refer to the answer to Question 1. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. Question 4: This question cannot be answered for reasons of confidentiality and data protection. I'm sorry, but the Question 5: No, no, no, I'm sorry, but the Question 6: Yes. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. However, an answer to this question is not possible from criminal-tactic considerations. [[Abg. Swimmling: But you know that there are such and such questions!]] – You're still on it, you son-in-law; save your energy, you'll need it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the Jargon on the belt, such answer is: Tastes, Kropfata! And this cannot be done without impunity with the public of a democratic state, ladies and gentlemen. This will quickly turn out to be true. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Swim, before you laugh: Read tomorrow's papers! You're coursed there already. [[Abg. Swimmling: I've already read it!]] Take the "Krone" and the "Kurier" then you will see that you need to be careful that you may not waste your energies in a direction that could harm you very much in a few days. So really notice when you may be lying out there on the tracks in Nibelungfire, and when you lie on the tracks, it turns out there is no longer a train at all! You'll really have to watch out for that! [[Abg. Swimmling: May I assume you're worried about me?]] But there are exhilarating passages in the speeches of my previous speakers. Then the expert Gaál, a dear friend of mine for many years, goes out and says with blue-eyed eyelash: There's no left-wing terror in Austria. – Probably according to the motto: Because can't be what can't be! And because with that the fiction of the always nonviolent left would be permanently destroyed. But I recommend the reading of the report on the statements of the Minister One who is here today. For he has deunified a few weeks ago that, I forgot, there have been five or six attacks in the last months and years, which are clearly part of the left-wing terrorist scene. You have to read that, you have to remember, and you must not forget it out there! It is very important to judge things properly. For you can accuse whom you want, but as terrorists in the recent past, only left-wing extremes have become established in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! You have to know and admit that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then happens to the Minister One whom I have known for a long time, and of whom I know that he is not the physical God's egg, as some might consider or at least try to present him, that he says he cannot call the name of a suspect, the third suspect, at the best of will, for he is innocent, he has proved himself innocent. [[Abg. You think so?]] - That's a wrong logic, lady. I don't know who launched the call. Today I may not be able to break a guilty person, a suspect, an accused person into the public for any reason, because I do not know whether he will not prove himself innocent because I do not want to harm him because he is youthful or unspoiled or similar. But if it turns out, an innocent man was in suspicion, then I'll be allowed to say who the innocent was. He can be better there than before, ladies and gentlemen. And when it comes to the issue of directions – one or the other may smile, but with instructions I know a little bit about it – when it comes to the issue of directions, it was already a disclosure, an unintended one, when the Minister said: There was no reference at all, we held a service meeting. That is the form, Willi Fuhrmann, how to give instructions without being called such. I invite everyone involved, there is a coffee and perhaps a little pastries for it, and at the end of the day we agree on a certain procedure. That's the instruction that doesn't mean that. But it wasn't even like that! We have been quoted from an act that the competent chief officer, who has become gay, who has feared, literally, official behaviour, has demanded and received a so-called cover order by the Minister. I would now like to include a precise name from the legal corner of this question by the Minister. He originally said: no instruction, just a service meeting. That's bitter enough. And the act says: There has been a need for and provision of cover. The House may consider the consequences of such a procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can prophesy again: Only full information will be able to eliminate some kind of distrust in connection with the activity of the Minister of the Interior in this Republic. I was more convinced that it could succeed half an hour ago. Now, after the problem: I almost doubt that there is something else that can be repaired. Faith Please give me the following: It is possible for the people, for the media, and it is also possible for Members in a democratic republic and in a rule of law, as we are pleased to live and experience it in Austria, to have no such events in the long run. This has its consequences, whether we are more or less sorry about the One or not! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But with everything that has happened, one can find such an answer: no, yes, yes, no, data protection, criminal-tactic considerations, silence and nothing else, just do not please! I would therefore like to make the following request: Application in accordance with § 92 para. 6 GOG of Deputies Mag. Stadler and colleagues on non-recognition of the reply to this question The National Council wants to decide: "The reply to Question 109/AB by Mr Dr. Haider and colleagues, introduced on 1 January 1989. 2. In 1996, the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning Wolfgang Purtscheller and the explosive attack of Ebergassing arrived on 1 January 1996. 4. 1996, by the Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Caspar Einm, in the 17th century. National Council meeting on 23. It is not taken note of by the Court of Justice of the European Communities on 4 April 1996.' But I'm not done yet. Purcheller. Where's this purcheller? Before the attack in Ebergassing, which he predicted, he was a Hansdampf in all the streets. No week in which he would not have appeared on television, no school in which he would not have looked by to exaggerate the students, no newspaper in which he would not have been spreading and even given an opportunity to do so. – Since then, he has been swallowed like the ground floor. There were people who said he was hiding in Austria. Others have said he's abroad. Now we know exactly: Oillinger told us he's abroad! [[Abg. May. Stadler: He knows!]] I am grateful, an informer has passed his information on to us, to the whole House and to the public. I'm really grateful for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has been of great service to the truth and the rule of law. Purcheller will know why he's not here. There are two ways: Either he has a bad conscience and fears justice, or he fears that others who know what he knows might be interested in not being able to tell it. There is also this possibility, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11474	The request just read in accordance with § 92 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure are sufficiently supported and under negotiation. I call Mr Emmerich Schwemmlein.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11501	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As an honourable Member of Salzburg, I consider this debate to be a typical Salzburg court, namely Salzburger Nockerl. It looks like a lot, but air gullible, nothing behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we consider what the motives of the liberals could be for this debate, then the first question is: Is this a question of information to the liberals, is it about criminal or security aspects? – No, the liberals are primarily concerned with re-polating an enemy image that exists for them. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Swims! If you don't have enough money, we'll collect for you!]] It's about re-adjusting a human being. It is about evading the Minister of the Interior, who enjoys very high sympathy. Then it is clearly permissible to think about why they do so. I had a rather interesting meeting with a colleague last week. He said to me: Look, we're there for a whole week together, there's a lot of discussion, and one hears one aspect or another, one argument or another, and there's one thing or another right, one likes it, and then there's some sort of fraternity. This is actually, if you analyze it more precisely, not in the sense of a free movement, not in the sense of a Dr. Haider or a Mr. Mag. Stadler, it can't be that his club may come into a friendly relationship or a normal relationship with the other Members. No, what we need, it's an enemy again. We need to be able to polarize. What we need is nothing but a whirlwind, because we have to conspire our own clubmates again. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What relationship do you have with the money, brother-in-law?]] Let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: What the "F" are doing here is nothing but abuse this Parliament as a group-dynamic playing field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wonder how seriously one should actually take all that we have heard today. I think, Mr. Dr. Haider, who knows very well how to present his information, who knows very well how to make a mood in the beardless big tents, for example, goes out with such messages: "Sensational Notes" against Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you out of deep conviction: Have you ever heard or seen a single evidence in the course of this debate or in the past debate? – No one could present Mr. Dr. Haider. In principle, all these headings are nothing but cheap polemics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How – and now we come to the system – does Dr. Haider do? – He doesn’t make that unskillable, he must be left already. Mr. Dr. Haider goes out, goes out with an argument, and then he says he will present evidence against One – I read it in the "Press" – "in due course". I don't know how much time you want to take, Dr. Haider. But I suppose, based on the average life expectancy of me and my colleagues, we will probably no longer experience the presentation of the evidence by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The process of the liberals has already been discussed today. All of them probably recall the accusation of Mr. Dr. Haider, Federal Minister Caspar One was imprisoned during his time as a parole officer for a drug crime. Imagine, someone goes here and says that the current Minister of the Interior – and now I'm going to reduce it – that some of this room or some citizen was in prison – this was just to suit him with it. But then it turns out that this may have been impossible, since this prison has been closed many years ago. That's more than bad, Dr. Haider, that's not a political work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, we should not forget one thing – there are still very time-consuming discussions in front of us, and therefore there should sometimes be something to laugh about – namely the accusation by Dr. Haider that Mr. Federal Minister had bought a new BMW by more than 700 000 S. I congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on your easily disasterd, very old Mercedes with the table: "I'm a BMW." – This is a good example of the style of Haider, which it is always worth showing: Mr Haider is acting with very many plausible, easy-to-sales arguments which prove to be unsustainable. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that they cannot be kept has resulted from a review. I assume that Dr. Haider has forgotten and rejected the IFES investigation very quickly, where more than 1,000 people have been questioned. Many more than 1,000 citizens of this country – not we, Dr. Haider, but just these brave, decent, diligent citizens – were asked whether they believe that Mr. Jörg Haider often uses half-truths and unsustainable suspicions as a means of the election campaign. You know, Dr. Haider, that a very "moderate" part of the population has answered: Yes, that does Mr. Haider, half-truths are his methods. This "moderate" part of the population was more than three quarters, Dr. Haider! This is a witness that is sad and embarrassing! I'd use the time in your place and say to these brave and decent people: I'm not going through this with you anymore, because you've been through me in the meantime! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it uninteresting that 75 percent of the respondents do not believe that Jörg Haider has never lied. – I believe that such a judgment of the population is not bad. As Mr Stadler spoke to me in one of his permanent interlocutory calls with my professional name and Mr. Ofner, to my surprise, complained that he had received an answer which he or she said, I should like to say to you: If you ask an open question,... [[Abg. Böhäcker: You son of a bitch! What about your unemployed income?]] Mr Böhacker! Sign up for a word and come to the speaker's desk! But your group does not even let you speak because you have nothing to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! If you ask an open question, you will also receive German written answers. If you ask closed questions, you must expect a clear yes or no to answer. I hope you learn to do so and ask better questions in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Dear colleague Stadler! Maybe we can sing to each other, but we can't talk to each other! Now I'm on it, and you'll come next time! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is from the joy of the fact that the list of speakers tends to end and we have once again been able to see that these attacks against the Federal Minister are not sustainable, I would like to address a sentence to Mr Kukacka very consciously. Today, Mr Kukacka – I personally felt it so – held a lesson in tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it sad when we arrived at a time when a reflection on a subject, whether it is comfortable or not, is already labeled as a misbehavior for someone. I have to tell you one thing: If so, my colleague, Kukacka, does not have the minimum understanding of democracy and tolerance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11632	Mr Oellinger referred to an actual correction. Please begin with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11661	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ofner said in his speech that I was well informed about the place of residence of Mr Purtscheller. This claim by Mr Ofner is incorrect. I have not been well informed about the place of residence of Mr Purtscheller, but I have, in my speech, supported a speech by Mr Stadler. That was a mistake!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11689	Mr Krüger has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11710	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think anyone in this House should act as a defender of political terrorists, no matter which side of this terrorism comes from. Terrorism in any form of appearance must be condemned with all determination and with the vehemence and veracity of a rule of law of a persecution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From this very point of view, it is incomprehensible for me to say a big word, as the security spokesperson of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Anton Gaál. He says – and this has already been quoted several times today and is critically appreciated, and I would like to continue: "There is no left-wing terrorism in Austria." Mr Gaál, this word from the mouth of a security speaker of a parliamentary group is really incredible. I am going to explain to you today what left-wing raids and terrorist acts have been filed lately. First, I refer to the issue of the "Kronen Zeitung" of the 8th century. May 1995: "Harter Kern of the Austrian scene is trained in German terrorist camps. Left radicals dangerously set up." The "Kronen Zeitung" writes: "As well as with us, the RAF heirs operate underground, constantly changing the names and bases of the unmistakably many splitter groups. The experts in constitutional protection fear a new trend: From case-law attacks to targeted attacks on persons." Or: "Kurier" from 1995: "Left-wing radical terrorist group committed second fire attack in Austria. "Celle" confesses itself to a million fires in Salzburg". Or: "Kronen Zeitung", 10. May 1995: "In total, the state police must now admit, since 1976 more than 40 attacks on the account of the left-wing extremists." My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Social Democratic Party! If you don't believe the newspapers, please the criminal department of the Landendarmerie command for Lower Austria. I quote from a criminal charge: The fleeting Bassam Al-Taher, Peter Konicek and Gregor Thaler, mentioned many times today, have shared in the 19th century. October 1988 to 11. On April 11, 1995, at least six explosive attacks took place in the federal states of Vienna, Lower Austria and Tyrol: the attempted explosive attack – everyone known – on April 11, 1995. On April 19, 1995 in Ebergassing, on the attempted explosive attack at night. ==References====External links==* Official website Observer's letter: ==References====External links== – No left-wing terror, Mr. Gaál? Or: ==References====External links== On April 1, 1989, at the disadvantage of the Hazet company in 1110 Vienna, where the explosion rate between two building huts was deposited. Motivation: It's probably revenge because of the aegidigasse. Observer: Flyers of the house-occupier scene, where the company Hazet is called "baumafia" and demolition company. – No left-wing terror, Mr. Gaál? Or: Explosive attack at night at 12. On February 22, 1990, Moto-Car joined the company in Vienna. Or: ==References====External links== February 1991 at the main camp of the BP-Austria in Vienna 11. Motive: Gulf War. ==References====External links== January 1991, under the Pretext "No blood for oil." "TAT Sheet" issue No. 4 of 26. ==References== - No left-wing terror? Or: Explosive attack at night at 9. ==References====External links==* Official website Observer: "Radikal" magazine. Ladies and gentlemen! This is where the circle closes. The journal "Radical" is the RAF central organ. The RAF-Central Organ is the partner sheet of the "TATblatt" personally supported by the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Purtscheller, who has been addressed several times today and whose role in terrorism will still be clarified, is a friend of the editor of the RAF newspaper "Radikal" Lindenau. At least one of the terrorists who has already been addressed today and who are the subject of the criminal charges of the State Army Command of Lower Austria and who are no longer alive, because they have split themselves into the air, is a personal acquaintance of the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! I fully understand that Mrs Stoisits is so bold for the Minister for the Interior. It is not a coincidence either, Mrs Colleague, that you agreed to the debate with the Minister for the Interior. This is your reflex when terrorist acts are challenged here. There you feel addressed by the magazine "Radikal", which I have already mentioned and which is quoted in one of these confession letters, because you know very well that the magazine "Radikal" was ordered by the "Young Left Voice" in Linz directly from the office of the Greens in Linz, Starhembergstraße, namely 20 copies. In the order it says literally: to letter bombs and bombs. From this point of view, Mrs Stoisits, I understand very well that you have been taken to this immense Philippine against the liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A word on the condolences as a result of the murder of the four Roma. Mrs Stoisits! Grief does not manifest itself in meddlingly pushing a chair into the picture. Let that be said! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Sad, Mrs Colleague, is primarily a matter of heart, a deep emotional matter. But a matter of heart is obviously not your strength! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:And with you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have started with Mr Gaál's inconceivable speech. The circle is therefore closed because obviously parts of the SPÖ – I really do not want to generalize there – are blind on the left eye, in particular the Minister of the Interior. There is no terrorism in Austria: This sentence obviously also corresponds to the schedule of the Minister of the Interior. Because, ladies and gentlemen, The attacks are not examined according to criminal tactics by the Minister of the Interior, but only according to the criterion of political usefulness. Ladies and gentlemen! This is also the reason for the fact that the majority of the Austrian population has already expressed distrust to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11775	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss has exercised himself in ardentness today. He does not want to burden the very difficult situation in the great coalition, obviously received from Mr Klubobmann Khol's ban on speech, he has gotten the time zero at the alarm clock of Mr. Khol, so he must not go down today. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] This is not so bad at all, Mr Kiss, it is all in the paper anyway. It is already in the newspaper how the individual Members of this House will talk about the opinions they will make. It has long been in the paper, as we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. It's already in the paper every word message and every quote. However, it has not been stated in the paper that Mr Kiss is not allowed to speak. It's not in there. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's why the paper isn't so well informed. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is that these daily newspapers, which I have here, always bring top information, always the latest, are not getting a few things right when they look into the stars. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the "Kurier" up to date]] The "Kurier" and the "Kronen Zeitung" can be found: "The Minister of the Interior is released for shooting." The whole debate is broadly presented here: "Hinnenminister Caspar One was taken back to the grain on Tuesday in the National Council of the FPÖ. The liberals submitted a motion of censure which, according to expectation, did not find a majority in the plenary session. It was about the alleged disability in the full investigation of the bombing of Ebergassing." – They knew that very well: no majority. The pillow will be good, because the khol doesn't want to endanger the coalition. Further inside is the speech by Minister Fassleven to the chapter National Defense, but this is only at 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock. But there is already a list of what Scheibner says about how to vote, everything is clear. But the beauty of the whole story is, ladies and gentlemen: On the first side of the "Kronen Zeitung" Mr. Wolf Martin has been in the wind: "Does anyone, of that's conscience, want to be afraid of a noise attack?" That's the biggest thing that the "Kronen Zeitung" tells us. If someone has a clean Westerl like Mr. Khol, the police can go into the house every day, the police can put on hearing aids, they can look at him every day as he pulls his underwear up and down. Ladies and gentlemen! He has a clean conscience! – "Brings one, of the' conscience,..." I am sure that Khol has a clear conscience, unlike Mr Kiss, who is still squatting a bit of the history of arms. But that's what we're going to do later today. Ladies and gentlemen! On the next page it will be funny, then the great philosopher and commentator Peter Gnam "The beginning of the end." [[Rejoicing]] – Both newspapers already have the end of the Lord A start. – It also says: "As likely it can be assumed that the green support for One is the beginning of the political end of this Minister of the Interior." To disprove the "Kronen Zeitung" clearly, I say with all clarity: This one is a bad Minister of the Interior, his ideas about the federal army are sinful, adventurous and perverse!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11871	Mr Dr. Haider spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e11893	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant how little you really want to take the debate seriously, which seems to have such a large scope that even on the weekend of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, he felt obliged to make an appeal in respect of planned measures in the security policy of the Minister of the Interior. I assume that the head of state has at least thought of something when he expressed his views on concrete discussions in Austrian security policy. But I also assume that the Federal Chancellor thought something when he remained a good part of the debate about the Minister To give a protection aid. He did so because the debate around the Minister of the Interior is a serious political debate, which can be understood from the point of view of: The pitcher's going to the well until it breaks! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's true for the Haider!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We only need to bear in mind the state of this country's internal policy and security policy today. [[Call the SPÖ: Safety Report 1995!]] The Minister, Mr Colleague, begins his work by admitting that he has given a donation to a violent terrorist sheet. The Minister of the Interior repeats this behaviour and gives another donation to the process against an obsessive group that has resisted this violence. So he obviously does this deliberately. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: You write in the "Aula"!]] I know it's unpleasant for you to be confronted today with someone who's an interior minister... [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: What do you think of the "young freedom"?]] I am not trying to challenge your emotions, ladies and gentlemen, but, of course, I cannot guarantee that you are holding back. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, this Minister of the Interior has to admit that he has actually been in good company with those who have been visibly transferred to Ebergassing for the first time, where it has become clear that there is a left-wing terror that he has lived in good acquaintance at least to one of the perpetrators who were at the same time victims. This Minister of the Interior is responsible for the fact that the third perpetrator, who is well-known and also belongs to a Kurdish terrorist organisation, namely the DEV-SOL, is able to move in an elegant way through non-negotiations by the security authorities abroad. This Minister of the Interior must note that it is not his security authorities, the EBT and special units, who are doing the investigation work, but that it was the Lower Austrian criminal department, which has demonstrated in silence that six further bombings, which have not been explained in recent years, go to the account of the Ebergassinger perpetrators and thus the one-friend. If you had been acting in the same way in Oberwart, you would not have interfered with your special unit, Mr Minister, if you had let the local regional criminal authority work there, then we would probably be going on in Oberwart even today instead of having traces destroyed that would have been very important for the truth finding. After months you, Minister of the Interior, had to take note that your own chief official, Dr. Sika, in an interview with the newspaper "Die Presse" said that one was under political pressure that one should only have determined one-sidedly. We would have been executed publicly, said the Security Director, and we would have said that we should not just go in the right direction. Such a statement would lead to the resignation of the Minister in any civilised democratic state alone. With us, however, it leads to the cementing of the Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, one of your officials, to whom you even threaten a disciplinary procedure, issues a book – it is very brave that one trusts – in which he writes that there has been pressure that instructions have been found in the wrong directions. He reports on adventurous transactions within the security authorities entrusted to you. All this, Mr. Federal Minister, cumulates pretty slowly. That is also the reason why there is a growing distrust of many Members – not just those of the liberal opposition – against their duties. You really have to ask yourself, for example, in the matter of Oberwart: What really prevents you from following the traces that have been identified? For example, car numbers have been established. Is it not possible to follow the Spittal car number because one of the possible perpetrators who could be made hard on the ground doesn't fit into the concept and, in turn, may be isolated in the dungeon circle of the Ebergassinger scene, which is very familiar to you? Is that not why they are being persecuted? How can you explain, Minister of the Interior, that an important piece of evidence, which, of course, some who do not deal with it, seems completely ridiculous, but he is "only" about four dead, namely a leather jacket that has been photographed and on which one of the sprung Oberwarter victims is located, suddenly disappears in the investigation proceedings? [[Abg. Marizzi: We already heard that!]] Yes, how do you explain that? Mr Marizzi, this is not a question of the "heavy-we-shon hearing", but what is going on in a security device, where essential materials of the discovery can simply disappear? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you also explain to us why you do not follow the tracks, the footprints and shoe prints found at the crime scene that point in a certain direction? Why don't you go after them? In contrast to the public claim, there is, of course, evidence in the security device that there has been a trace assurance that the traces have not yet been pursued. Everything then rubs together: Certain things must not be persecuted in this country. Therefore, Mr Purtscheller is allowed to move abroad – his story has already been illuminated – which really has a special connection to this scene. It is striking that the predecessor of the present Minister of the Interior, Dr. Löschnak, expressed considerable suspicions against Mr Purtscheller and even suspects him of complicity in an explosive attack or in the preparation of a bomb attack – here in front of the House and in a written response to the question. The chief correspondent of the "Standard", of "NEWS", the scientific adviser to the documentation archive of Austrian resistance in the matter of letter bombs and bomb terrorism in Austria suddenly gets itself into a shaky light, and before anything else happens, he is allowed to drop off abroad, and one tries to spread the coat of silence. Mr Löschnak must go, another comes who sees the things of Mr Purtscheller in a milder light. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, your statements on the federal army, your adventurous ideas, which you have expressed, your attempts at Stasi reform with people, where I would advise you to examine them. Because you disputed it today: I would really advise you to consider where the professor you are going to use for the reform of the State Police. Look You should take the Gaugg act before you allow someone to intervene as an expert in state security, which may also have a past to deal with in the direction of Gaugg. I think it would also be interesting for this Parliament to look at some of the Gaugg authorities' act. There are connections up to the highest offices, where secretaries, consultants, employees are also on the list of stasi, which are in Austria and are advisory with you. Why did the Republic of Austria never officially request the Gaugg act? – Because you really don't want to know anything about these filters and because some people live very well with the fact that they want to widen the coat of silence on them. Then go here, Minister of State, and say: Now I am sharpening the pace and still giving instructions so that I can enforce my policy. I brought one of these instructions – it is not a serious one. The Security Directorate Carinthia will be ordered by the Federal Ministry of the Interior in your term of office last summer to allow a Bosnian citizen to enter unhindered. I've got all of this: ==References== ==References====External links== The Security Directorate passed it on to the District Head Team Wolfsberg. It reads: For the purpose of the family merger, the possibility to enter Austria at the Lavamünd border control station should be granted without hindrance, because the woman and child are already in the context of the refugee aid de facto in Austria. To this end, the authority of your ministry will reply: It cannot be a refugee, because this man has already travelled and entered Austria and Bosnia several times since 1994. But the Minister gives instructions that people should be admitted as refugees who are not refugees at all. Maybe he was a little gun slide or something. That's how it happens: Instructions of a ministry that are not sustainable, and now, after the authority has set itself up, half a year later, i.e. on 27 May. February 1996, the Ministry of the Interior replied: It was not possible for this person to leave his home because of the armed conflicts, and he could already return to Bosnia several times from Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] Half a year later, he admits to the Minister with his ministry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is how the policy of instruction looks!]] Then we want to give an instruction on issues of foreign and asylum policy. This is uncertain to those people who have been able to rely so far on a minister to comply with the laws. You're now giving an instruction on Kurdish resistance. Federal Minister! You made this clear today. They get up and say with conviction that you have not given any direction. We will then show you that there is even an act, there is a closing act and that the officials have even said: We would like to point out to you, Minister, that the consequence is that, if You do not act here is that we are guilty of an act of office, and you must know that. The Minister will hold a meeting and then give an instruction to Mr Sicherheitsdirektor, which is the subject of the Minister's decision. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, the Minister proceeds with Parliament, acting within his own government. He says: I have not given any instructions, and then a document comes to light that this has been a very complicated, detailed process that has been discussed, how to proceed. And then the Minister decides very personally: Even if we act against the Supreme Court, even if we violate laws, even if we violate the security interests of the Austrians, we do not do anything until the next attack occurs. Because something happened. A few months ago, there was an attack on a Turkish locality in Upper Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It is no longer possible! That's a nonsense!]] The Kripo finds out in the SPÖ office because there are links there. Read the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", read the "Welser Zeitung"! It is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, how all this is linked, and I therefore understand that the Federal Chancellor today had to launch a discharge offensive for his minister in difficulty. On the basis of what you have said here, Minister, you should take your own initiative, because you have lied to Parliament, you have lied to the public, and you have committed an action that has been against the security interests of the Austrian population. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen: Our cause as a liberal opposition is not to recommend something to the ÖVP, but you will have to consider what alliance you are in here. You will have to consider whether you agree with the report by the Minister, whom he has given here before Parliament. Then express your confidence to him, as you have done so many times before, to say again two or three days later: This one is unsustainable! There's criticism of him, then the trust is expressed to him again. Then the elections come, then the Security Spokesman Kiss criticizes him, then Mr. Klubobmann says: In a government in which one sits, the ÖVP will no longer be involved!, and then a few weeks after the election, and you are again involved in that government. Now he is again giving an illegal direction, but he contests it, says the untruth before Parliament and the public – and the ÖVP will again express its confidence to him! Ladies and gentlemen! This punishes your own criticism lies, and thus you also shake the trust of the population that no longer knows what you should think of you. Our task as a parliamentarian is to ensure that the rule of law, control and democracy function in the country, not that a minister can switch and act as he pleases. And it cannot be true that a minister of the Interior is the greatest security risk in this Republic by supporting terrorist organizations and persecuting decent people.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12048	Dr. Haider! I should already like to make the point that in all cases the debate on the accusation of the lie should not be explicitly done in the house. Minister Dr. Einm has spoken. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12073	Mr President. High house! Mr Haider! I would like to congratulate you on the invention of parliamentary immunity, because I would be guilty of the accusations you have raised against me today with answers of the same quality of truth. I do not think that this is a sign of a particularly fair political debate, nor should we be politically on the same side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] I should like to comment briefly on a number of points. First: They have made the claim that I am friends with one of the suspects who died in Ebergassing. You said I'd have to admit I'd be friends with him. I didn't have to admit that at any time. However, I have said that I have met one of them once. That's a little bit of a difference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: Take it easy! Naughty!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Secondly, you have said that I must admit that Bassam Al-Taher is a member of a Kurdish terrorist organisation, the DEV-SOL. I tell you that the DEV-SOL is not a Kurdish organization, but a left-wing terrorist Turkish organization that stands in sharp contrast to the PKK and has nothing to do with Kurds. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is just a Turkish Communist terrorist organization!]] You're ill-informed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Kurds support!]] You said, thirdly, that I should have had my officials working in the chief guard. I did so, as far as it was in my power – I was the State Secretary for Official Affairs at the time –. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] In today's debate, you have repeatedly referred to an interview by the Director-General for Public Security in the press. It was only one of the speakers who found it necessary to fully reflect the quote. You do not have to make the effort to hit my ears with this interview by the Director-General; there is no reason to do so. It also contains a very clear statement in the same interview, namely that the basis that exists between us on these issues is that the police are in no way hindered, on the contrary, in every way supported to do their work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is white cynicism!]] Mr Haider! They have also raised the question of what traces are being pursued in connection with the superior. – There are all traces that have any prospect of coming to the perpetrators, and not just those you would like to see. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I take note with interest of the fact that you know which consultants in the matter of Stapo-Reform I will at all events refer to. I have no intention of drawing on an advisor on this question, nor have I drawn on it. If you can predict which one I would at any later time use, then I am very grateful, but then you have apparently gained this knowledge at the back of the table. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The one you used in the 95s and you already paid 90 000 s!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, as far as the act you quoted from the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, it is not necessary for you to show me that there is this act. I am aware of this, of course, because the discussion that the Director-General for Public Security was looking for with me, accompanied by the then head of the State Police Group, was, of course, sought on the basis of the considerations that had been made by the responsible official. However, he was not the leading official, but he was the head of the department of the department that had to deal with these questions. He therefore rightly requested that the newly created situation be discussed after the decision of the Supreme Court and clarified by the head of the ministry. This has happened in the way that a discussion has taken place between Mr Sika, Mr Mastalier and me, with the result that we agreed that the decision of the Supreme Court does not require a change in the previous attitude in the interests of the security of the population in Austria. Therefore, no change has been made. High house! Even though the opposition, namely the Freedom Party, has today made a very strong effort to give the impression that Austria is a particularly uncertain country, this Minister of the Interior contributes substantially to the uncertainty in that country, I would like to point out at least in one point that the figures speak a different language. It is not possible to say without a doubt that uncertainty has increased if crime has decreased and the recovery rate has increased in the third consecutive year. I think we should stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12214	I now give the floor to Mrs Dr Schmidt. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12236	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Haider, in his first speech, quoted from this pult from a closing act of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. A country in which this is possible and which happens again and again can and must not afford to attack the noise and not to arrest the grid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12265	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Mr Zweytick, we are coming to a vote. Are you inside or outside? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He dares to come in!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades not to take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Resolution of the answer to the question 64/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12304	We now come to the required discussion of the question answered by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs with the order number 64/AB. The answer to the question has been distributed. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that here too, according to § 92 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 15 minutes. I call Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12338	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is understandable that the series now have some light, after the nerves, especially with the Socialist Group, are somewhat white and are still white, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: There you can be calmed down!]] It must be noted that the question we now have to answer does not, of course, have that political weight as the previous one. For me, what has now happened – if I may make a brief comment – was like a crime, and because of the facts, I think, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, a lot of discussions will take place around your person. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Mr Schwemlein will still be there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: On the matter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion of Ditz's response to questions concerning opinions, surveys and studies is also necessary if, as has already been said, you do not have such a high political weight compared to the previous one. But the need for this discussion is also due, among other things, to the fact that one of the highest rights of Parliament, the honourable Member, namely the question, the right of interconnection, Mr Federal Minister, has not been respected accordingly. We do not call into question the need for expertise and know-how in principle. But, Dr. Ditz, you can also exaggerate it, just as you obviously did. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm going to come to the evidence. It is very bad – as mentioned above – that you, through your ministry, suppose to be able to interpret the right of interconnection. And you do this by answering the question 3 of this question – "What institutes and companies have been commissioned to draw up the respective opinions, surveys and studies?" – answer the following – and this is very interesting in connection with further answers, including from your department, Mr. Federal Minister; there must be a huge question mark as to why you are replying to this question in the following way: "The answer to this question cannot take place because the interests of the institutions and companies responsible could be violated by a notice of the latter." It is very interesting why this is suddenly in your answer. I cannot imagine – and also the public and, I believe, the majority of this Parliament cannot do so – that if a company, an institute has delivered a good job, the author, the manufacturer of the product, no one is allowed to know about it, according to the motto: "Good thing no one knows I'm hot." Mr Federal Minister, this is certainly not the case! There, like rumples, you really have to stamp on the ground, Mr. Federal Minister, if you reply. Interest of an institution, a company must be sure that it will receive the corresponding approval from the customer for a successful work and will thus result in follow-up orders. Of course! He won't do a job with you, and that's it. – Except for you, you pay such a good fee that the same can then sit in the chair until its end of life. But at first I do not assume that, although you have already done so with the means – I say it in Salzburgerisch – you have already done so. You cannot imagine, too, Mr Federal Minister, that a gifted architect after a contract was awarded, after an architectural throw then suddenly means that no one should know about it, no one should know that. You, Mr Federal Minister, imagine that nothing must happen, that no one should know where it has gone, and that is why, as a liberal, we ask you whether, according to the three criteria, you have done so in these public contracts, because they are to be described as such. Federal Minister! These three legs are essential for public procurement, so at least the shadow remains, the long shadow that you obviously wanted to keep a little secret – as long as you don't give the public pure wine. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is also necessary to put the economy into discussion. In 1992, we still had a sum of about 17 million schilling for such expertise, in 1994 it was around 29 million schilling, and in 1995, mostly under your leadership, this sum has exploded to more than 62 million schilling. So you doubled the expenses while you halved the funds for BÜRGES in the same breath. There's something wrong with your innovative scales that you've given in to introduce. BÜRGES you have halved, the small business credit action you have just dropped the Danube, and with expertise you have doubled the sum compared to 1994. Double! And now you do not even want to tell Parliament who has come to the delight of these orders. So you don't want to see anything, you don't hear anything and you don't say anything, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some examples from this elaborate that you have provided to us. – In tourism, the mail goes off anyway. There's a list of what's "passed" here for a long time: Successes, failures and unresolved problems of international tourism research. If you answer in question 4, you would have the results of such research orders incorporated into your political action, I wonder why you did not then implement the results, for example in the drink tax, where you stood on the brake. So that means that the money has been thrown out of the window more or less. Or: Collection of cross-border freight traffic 1994. The results are likely to show you that the EU is using Austria in particular. Why did you not become active after the results of this expertise, as you promised us — Parliament, the public — under item 4? Or: Concept for "printing", it is here, the exhibition project Ingenius in Vienna 1996. They refuse to inform Parliament of what is happening with it; Brand policy in Austria and so on. And then some bizarre things come, "1000 years of textiles Austria" for example. What is to be researched, promoted or what expertise is needed by the High House, the public here, I wonder. [[Abg. May. Stadler: lumbars!]] I would not be surprised if you had had spent 5,000 years researching textiles in Austria, because then you could have included what Mr Ötzi has worn for textile garments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is another study "Tenteenth Years Hospitality in Austria". Why, then, should you be ashamed to do such an assignment from you? Finally, as an example, which is also something questionable: "Equipment of the test doll (Dummy) with acceleration to record the HIC value". – So you have also researched this, Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. And then there is the study "Altarm Schönbühel, Fish Ecological Evidence to establish the function of two existing pipe transmissions with regard to their migrationability". . I am also occasionally fishing, but, Mr Federal Minister, I think that these research orders are at least after investigation, so the Court of Auditors will have a lot to do and they will have to be questioned. I don't premise it as long as I'm not in full possession of your information, but I'm wondering if there's been no case here to order a report so that some can fill in their wallet. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, since your takeover of the office of the Minister of Economic Affairs, a "Gutachtitis" has been invading a disease in which some wallets are healthy, namely, as mentioned earlier, those of the assessors. This is a reviewitis, which has already brought other communities, such as the Federation, into the debt tower, for example my hometown of Salzburg, where under socialist leadership a giant hole was also torn into the state bag by the expert. The whole thing then continued by Mr Voggenhuber, who was then chased out of office by the electorate and now insulted his former hometown. Ladies and gentlemen! We demand transparency from you, namely transparency, as shown by the Federal Minister for Justice, who has very probably announced the companies and the sums on similar issues. Michalek has said on similar questions who came into the enjoyment of such funds and how high these amounts were in individual cases. So it remains a dark shadow in your way of reply, Mr. Federal Minister, and even longer this shadow becomes if you answer your question from the 1. 4. In 1996 the Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Community, on the other hand, of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community, on This is about the funding statistics, and you have very probably stated on page five – including, for example, list for many years –: video and computer-supported participation in planning – that was the ARGE Haller: 140 400 S Pilot test Austrian Network for Barrier-free Planning and Building, Institute for Social Design: 163 000 S, and so on and so on. That's where you called us the numbers. Our question is, and this is what interests us today: Why did you point out, in the answer to the question, that the disclosure of the figures and the companies would harm their interests? – This question arises. First of all, Mr President, I would not like to put to you, Mr Federal Minister, that you have commissioned so many opinions to give a chance to one or another. I do not assume this for the time being. But in order that this accusation does not become a fact and becomes a fact, it is necessary for you to put everything on the table, in the interests of taxpayers, in the interests of Parliament, of the rights of this Parliament. As a Member of Parliament – and you yourself were one, therefore you should have a special understanding of this right of Parliament – let us not take the right to question on behalf of the citizen what happens with the sour tax schilling, Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] While you constantly tighten the belt to the Austrians, they are almost strangulating, Mr. Federal Minister, you have spent 62 million here, and the sense of a good part of these expenses has not been demonstrated. We expect you to provide this proof! Your debt is to put everything on the table to Parliament, to inform the public of the answer, then we are happy to be on your side in matters – otherwise not.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12436	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12457	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What the "F" of parliamentarianism holds is shown by this... [[Abg. Rossmann: The Freeman!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Right, now it's called "The Freeman." So what the liberals think of parliamentarianism is seen at this meeting of the reply by Mr Ditz. It is true that you are abused by Parliament in order to be filibusters, a typical habit for you here, because the honourable Member Haigermoser takes out one of the requests made by the Ministries, in this case the reply by Mr Ditz, and does not compare them with the reply of the other Ministries and makes accusations to Mr Ditz, who are completely unjust. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I quoted his own details!]] Mr Haigermoser! I know you can't listen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oh yes! I'm hanging on your lips!]] No, you can't, otherwise you'd let me speak. Mr Haigermoser! As far as the studies are concerned, I have the answer to the question raised by Mr Klima, the Minister for Finance, where it is clear: The contracts in question were awarded to institutes, national and international business consultants and individuals. Only the topics were mentioned in this report and not even the individual studies. This also applies to Minister Hums. Mr Haigermoser! But what you can do as a Member of Parliament, you didn't. They doubt the value of the studies, but... [[Abg. Haigermoser: What?! I'm not a detective office!]] Deputies! I know you can't listen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm not "Argus"!]] Deputies! You can't listen, I know, and that's why Your contributions were not taken seriously either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As Members of Parliament, you can ask for the published studies at each ministry and you will also receive them. Make You're using it! All studies published can be requested. Then you can convince yourself. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out one thing. In recent years, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has greatly reduced its staff status by decommissioning it and has therefore of course also given various tasks to other institutes and have opinions or studies prepared there. This is also true in our sense that not all is always done by one ministry, that other independent experts are also used. And that is exactly what happened, not only in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, by Mr Ditz, but also in other ministries. And it is clear from the individual amounts that they vary in their height according to the opinions. It always depends on which topics it is about. As you know, the Minister of Economic Affairs has a very large area, not only economics, but also buildings and energy. And especially in these sensitive areas, it is necessary to draw up various studies, for example, in Austria's economic location, on how the impact of the European Union is, how the effects of our neighbourhood are – for example, more than "1000 years of hospitality". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser! That is exactly what shows that you do not understand anything about the economy. Because what our ancestors have done here and there is important for the future, for how we can continue, especially at 1000 years hospitality, to present the tourist country of Austria accordingly, to show where the traditions are, where we can achieve something new. These are the opportunities for our country! But you don't recognize these opportunities, I noticed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12566	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12588	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I honestly wonder: Why do it? Is that what you're looking for? . You know that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is really trying to make a scandal behind everything and everyone, and this answer, which you have completely unnecessarily delivered, of course offers a group that is bent on making it a parliamentary question and a certain degree of touch. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You suffer from persecution!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: You, too, sell in part how to hear!]] – Well, we have now taken note of this and continue. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You have the really important task of shaping the framework conditions of business and promotion policy, and I am convinced, Minister of Economic Affairs, that you need advice, studies and surveys in the sense of outsourcing. I would like to congratulate you very much on the last study you made in the house, to the study by Dr. Handler, Director of Sections, entitled: Economic location Austria. I think this is excellent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I just don't understand one thing: If you have these studies prepared why You're not an offensive communication policy then? Why not make a list of the Sudies available to the business spokesmen of this House, which can be found in your home? – These studies have been paid with taxpayers' money. I think they should be available not only to the executive, but also to the legislative, to Parliament. I think that the answer to Question 3 in the reply to the debate is simply 'patter'. Please excuse me for saying so clearly. For it is logical that You have, of course, duly justified the fact that you have not made free party political award and that there is no return in party funds. I am simply resisting, behind everything that happens in this Republic, a scandal. I would therefore ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs, to: Show more transparency in the award, answer the questions as Members rightly expect, and above all: Carry out more communication with Members, make these studies available to us! We also want to have the knowledge you have through these important studies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12648	I call Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12670	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say honestly... Oh! Now he's not here, Helmut Haigermoser. [[Call the ÖVP: Is not so important!]] Yes, it is. It's important. In fact, it is about how seriously we take ourselves at work. For I looked at the paperwork and asked myself: What's being criticized? – And on the first flight I also thought: All right, all right, all In four years 73 analyses and expertise on tourism. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Peter.]] - It'll be right there! This is the subject I want to address. Mr Peter! – 26 on transport, further studies on small and medium-sized enterprises, export problems and so on. What I do not understand, however, if I take this seriously, Mr Trattner – you are the applicant – is the following: Why, and I really mean, did we not discuss every single issue of these surveys in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy? – One can still think differently whether some expertise was too much or whether one should have done it differently. The fact is that it was in principle right to pick them up. What is to be done, please, by a Ministry of Economic Affairs, for the introduction of proper framework conditions – not at all responsible for tourism – as appropriate documents so that the standard recipients in the economy can react on the basis of these analyses and expertise? – That’s a good thing! [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is not the problem!]] But now comes my criticism. Mr Trattner! If you had discussed this in the last Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, you would have said: Mr Minister or Mrs Tichy-Schreder, Chairman of the Committee. Please put this on the agenda, we would like to talk about the various analyses and expertise, then this would have been the subject. We would probably have discussed this for a few hours in individual analyses, for example in tourism or in the export industry. Can I tell you something? - Look at the watch! It's 8.04 p.m. Tomorrow we will discuss the chapter Economics from around 1 p.m. on. Now at 8 p.m. we should discuss such an important topic in front of an empty house – it is no longer a journalist here, there are no more media present?- Oh, my God! – Either don’t take it seriously, or you really don’t care. Everything just so you can pull the session a little in length. That's how I handle it! One important concern, namely to discuss these highly interesting analyses and expertises, is to deal with a request for a response, where one has 15 minutes of time limit and where one can find it very quickly. Why, I don't know, I don't even ask the question. My appeal would only be: If you take it seriously, we will discuss it tomorrow in the chapter on economics or in the next report on tourism or in the next report on the export industry or next time we discuss vocational training. Every single topic for itself is important! I would also like to say that one could then discuss the issue of whether one or another creator of expertise or analysis is being announced. In the Committee we can talk about all of this. I am convinced that the Minister for Economic Affairs would have told us. Why would he hide it? – He will have had a reason if he says now, we do not discuss it publicly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Helmut! That's the subject that matters. If you mean it seriously, then make a real discussion on the individual topics. One alone would be more than enough. But what you're doing now is all going in one direction. I say to you at the end of one thing, and that is my real conviction – I still wanted to write it down, but I have already been called to speak –: It really happens to me like this: You can't be prevented by healthy prayers, I think, by a perhaps germinating recession. But one can be guaranteed: Bring one by the sick! – And that is what you are about to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12733	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12754	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon. I find the request as such quite interesting. I am grateful that I now have an overview of all the studies financed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in recent years. Why Mr Ditz has not answered Question No 3, is not quite clear to me either. I take it back to the desire, widely used in Austria, to always put the silence of office in the foreground. It is Article 20(1). 3 of the Federal Constitution, which appears to be cited indirectly here in the reply to the question. It does provide that the authority is obliged to remain secret when confidentiality – and then various points – is in the interest of maintaining public peace, order and security and so on – will probably not be meant – or if it is required in the vast interest of the parties. Why should it be in the greatest interest of these people here? – It is really not honorable to write a study for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do not even rule out the fact that in the list of names I might be mine. I wouldn't mind if he was called there in your answer to the question. I believe that the question 4 cannot be answered much better, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. They asked: What was the rainfall of these results? – My God, after a rough reading of the studies, it should be about 250 to 300 studies that are called there. How to evaluate this globally? – You already have to make the effort to figure out an area, such as tourism, hospitality, what I know, technology promotion, something just, and then to examine this area for efficiency, whether the cost of this study is equivalent to the cost of this study. But honestly, I do not know how to give you a much more satisfactory answer in this global form. I am much more interested now that we have this convoluted, how many of these studies are already completed, especially those from 1994/95 I would be interested in. It is only the question – one of my previous speakers has already suggested this –: Do you get them, too? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes!]] Well, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, it's not always that way! The Wifo distribution report has been completed for months, it has been in the Ministry of Finance for months, and the Ministry of Finance is still finding something that should still be added or corrected, just so that it cannot still be presented to the public. In this way, of course, one can delay the publication of a study not only by months, but by years. And I hope that is not Mr Ditz's policy. Your comment, Mr Peter, on the study Economic location Austria, I can sign in full. This is, for example, a very interesting story. It was published very quickly, within a few months. You will probably still have an opinion on this, Minister of State. I would welcome your promise that all the studies we are about to request from you, if they are quite ready, will be immediately received from you. Some of them will also be very interesting for us. There are a number of questions, which have surprised me, about the environment in the broadest sense, about the promotion of technology, on all kinds of, very interesting questions, which I do not want to rule out, that in one study or another one might say from my point of view, if I knew them in detail: After that was absolutely necessary to investigate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12792	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Ditz, has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12813	Mr President. High house! I should like to follow up on Mr Van der Bellen's comments and to say quite clearly here: Of course, all the studies we are doing that are being published are also available to Members. I don't know what quantity they are in, but we can certainly make copies, which is on and on, easily possible for ourselves. I even think this is a positive effect, because I believe it can help us bring more rationality into our economic, environmental and other policies. I am interested in an objective discussion, which is why I am also willing to provide all the information you have asked for to be made known which studies have been completed in 1995 and then perhaps to ask who wants these studies. I'll take care of this in my house. However, I would also like to say clearly that many of the studies are, of course, part of the work in the sections. It's not all being published. But here too I am ready for a dialogue, and the section heads are certainly willing to provide you with insight into the material documents here, because I do not think anything about making facts or figures available at all. We all know that we are living in a period of economic change, where we are all happy when we are getting points in which direction we can or should shape our policies. I believe that, in principle, Mr Haigermoser, studies may be more important and essential than interest-rate support. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Minister! I didn't question her, I just wanted to know who they were!]] They should be careful to compare apples and pears. If the right conclusions are drawn, we will benefit overall. I can also give you some examples of this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It was not questioned!]] But I answer it anyway, let me give my answer, I listen to you too. So, for example, I think it is important – I have done this personally – for us to seek a reform of environmental plant law, because I think we have to consider how we achieve the same ecological benefits with less bureaucracy so that the economic location of Austria does not cause any damage. Everyone speaks of de-bureaucratisation, while the administrative lawyers think that the whole right is already so caustic that one no longer knows where to start to really create this de-bureaucratisation. They tried to get an overview here. Deregulation of economic law. I believe that literature must also be collected here in order to gain starting points for practice. Energy forecasts: We also need a lot of studies as a basis for the reports we are presenting here in the House. I therefore believe that in principle this procedure is reasonable and correct. It certainly wasn't my intention not to respect the law of interconnection. On the contrary: I am willing to give this overall review. However, I must say clearly: The level of the individual study was not asked and was also given by no one as an answer. You say I'd done studies and then I wouldn't have abolished the drinking tax, for example. I have to tell you: The only one who has ever moved in the area of beverage taxation was I, as the Secretary of State, together with the Minister of Finance Lacina. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have always demanded from the liberals, and when you were the first to be able to do this with your former State Secretary Holger Bauer, you have failed. So you have to say that clearly. Another example of Haigermoser was that we did not take part in the cross-border transport of goods. We have become very active. We have become so active with a change in the Brennermaut that you, as a Tyrolean, must have come along, that there is no more noise at night and there is some rest. We have made this measure aware, and we are now holding a conscious discussion with the EU. That is to say, these studies have certainly had a meaning. The Minister of Economic Affairs has responded to these studies. So I don't understand where the accusation is here, and I just can't understand your argumentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, one last point: Why a higher order sum? – In 1995 it was yawned here as you mean. Mr Haigermoser, Member of the Commission, was not disturbed, but the Ministry has added new skills, new skills in technology transfer, in innovation policy, where it makes sense to study in studies what kind of support we need in this country. There are very many small promotions; I claim, however, there is no optimal promotion towards technology transfer. These are flaws, and we must consider how we can improve this and reorganise it. We have made studies – and these were especially requested by the Freedom Party – to prepare the Federal Road Finance Act. I was accused of driving here without scientific evidence – that is not true. We have done studies, and of course these studies also cost money. The toll study was certainly essential for the preparation work for both the vignette and the road pricing. Another mistake is that we have been studying studies on the Millennium and researched 1 000 years of hospitality with the loins. This is simply about promotions for Austria, where we demonstrate the importance of tourism for Austria. I believe that we need such events that are again in the media – that is exactly what happened in Mayrhofen – which have a positive overall effect on advertising and therefore justify the use of the funds very well. Last point: The use of the EU's opportunities, EU funding, makes it necessary to study with studies the various funding programmes – whether they are textile promotions, whether these are the foundations of EU co-financing, whether the Retex Community Initiatives or the sectoral plans for agriculture. I believe that we can prove that this higher budget in 1995 is justified, and you can be sure that, in my area as a whole, in all areas, including studies, we are sparsely dealing with what does not mean – and in this respect, I am giving to honourable Members. Van der Bellen is right – that every study we are doing is the yellow of the egg. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12878	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Meschberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e12899	Mr President. Minister! High house! The last word of the Minister will probably be truest in all history: Not all that exists in studies is the yellow from the egg, too, Mr Van der Bellen has already said it. I find a special piece of beauty: a study commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the road accounting and road Austria – it may appear to my colleague Van der Bellen – which was published in 1993. The long version of the study was prepared in 1994. Apart from the fact that the base year for the surveys of this study was 1990 and as a result the figures underlying the study were more than obsolete in the publication of the study, a more than 400-page graveyard was created here, which actually has no apparent influence on the work in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is interesting if Mrs Tichy-Schreder is trying to defend the Federal Minister here and question our parliamentary work if we are concerned about such studies. Mr Heindl has also asked the question of how serious we are. I believe that we are taking our work considerably more seriously than the Minister's answer to the question, because not only is the question of why he does not announce the author – Mr Van der Bellen already laughs – is open. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is very well known in science!]] I don't have a problem with that either. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But you've never seen a university inside!]] I do not get an order from the Minister. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's where the qualification comes from!]] It's important that you just say "Bellagoni"! Back to the subject. The study I have been given was prepared by Mr Van der Bellen. The authors of the study were Dr. Herry, University Professor Faller and our colleague in the House, today's Green spokesperson, Van der Bellen. If one receives the answer from the Minister that publicly awarded studies cannot be publicly mentioned by its client, then one asks why the whole thing is. In order to get back to this study, this special road billing-Austria from 1993: I have always believed and am still convinced that Mr Van der Bellen is an excellent expert, but I have always thought he is inexplicable. I hope that I have this impression even after an answer from the Minister or yourself. This study does not seem to appear in the list of the Federal Minister in the answer to the question, it does not appear at all. It is clearly drawn on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, and there is a final report, so it should be finished. However, it is not included in the list in the request answer. I was particularly angry with something like this – Mr Heindl, I think we should talk about such things already in this context: This is given in note 1: "Beautiful edition for journalistic use, without indication of monetary values". [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hello!]] Publicly commissioned studies are not mentioned by the Federal Minister in his reply to the question. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is it, Luke?]] I see here that it is a beautiful, that is, a manipulative edition of this study to give the public a different picture than perhaps the study contains. And there are already some questions, ladies and gentlemen, to you, Mr Van der Bellen, and to you, Minister of State. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Many questions!]] I would be interested in how this issue has ever been done, especially what is beautiful in a beautiful edition of a study by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This title bears your name. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Beautiful with flowers!]] It's probably signed by you too, I don't know. Mr President, I should like to thank I would just like to know whether you, my colleague, knew of this procedure at all or were even involved in the preparation of such beautiful expenditure on studies, which will then be paid by means of taxes, is generally used to leave the negative things in the drawer and to publish only the beautiful facts. These are all questions which arise here in connection with this manipulative procedure in relation to the award of studies. It also raises the question: How does the payment of such studies take place? Is that why this study is not in the list, because it has not been paid to date, or is it paid in advance to get beautiful expenses needed to get the whole thing to know the right public value as you would like to imagine? These are all things we should talk about. That is why I am sorry that the Minister has spoken before my speech. But I think we will receive an answer from both of those concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13016	Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ditz spoke again. – I give the floor to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13038	Ladies and gentlemen! You will certainly receive an answer. Even the whole House will receive a written answer because I will follow the case. According to our information, this study has not been asked because only the studies commissioned by 1992 to 1995 have been carried out, and it was commissioned before 1992. That's the information I have, but we're going to do it. We will look at this, and we will comment very clearly and in writing on all your accusations, which you have unprovedly given by yourself and put into the room in continuation of the first word. I think it is also very unfair to Mr Van der Bellen, which you have offered here from the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13067	I call Mrs Rossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13088	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I would first like to return to the EU co-financing study. They said that the study would be necessary to explain exactly what co-financing Austria needs. Why is it then possible for you, in the Subcommittee on the Economy, to answer the question of what EU co-financing of the federal government is at which location in the area of tourism in 1996/97: A statement on specific EU funds binding projects with information on the level and location of the measures mentioned cannot yet be made. Such statements will be possible in the course of 1996 and 1997. We already have almost mid-1996, and because of such a study, I think you should be able to give an answer to it. But ahead, so that there are no mistakes: Of course, we confess to studies. Studies are needed to go political as well as economic direction towards the future. At the end of the day, it is about the number of studies at which the costs are and to whom they have been created. Mr. Federal Minister! It is incredible that in four years alone for the tourism industry, 100 studies – you have told yourself a bit – have been created. I have made the effort to calculate the cost of this, and I have come to an amount of 153 million schilling. In total, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has produced 288 studies in four years. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Tourism is worth so much to the Ministry of Economic Affairs!]] I'm still coming back to the successes. And if you now get the average per study, it's still 500 000 S per study. I think we should already talk about whether this makes sense, whether there is a certain waste of money on tax resources behind it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: So is too much being done for tourism?]] There are questions and inconsistencies for me. The staff in your ministry were really very friendly, and I can't confirm that you wouldn't get the studies. I called first and then filed in writing that I was interested in all the studies, and got the information: Of course, we just can't say when you get them and if they all get them. But it was an information anyway. And now I'm asking you: Have you really considered that the taxpayers you are funding the studies with? You have the responsibility to the taxpayer and also to this House, what happens with it and how you communicate the studies [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: In road construction this is common!]] I would like to say that not only this House, but also Austrian citizens, have the right to take note of these studies. And what does that mean that these are non-public studies? They are financed by public funds and the studies have to be public. That's my opinion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is what I can say to Mr Peter: There would be a lot of double tracks apart, especially in specialist bodies – we now take tourism – if these studies were carried on. Think of the many tourism companies that do not bother with creating studies that may have long been in a drawer in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The success or exploitation of these studies is really more than micky. Minister! In the future, too, you have to think about it, or perhaps you have used the studies, so that political rethinking may not be necessary, but that you can say that it has been demonstrated by a study, my political action goes in the right direction? Or it's just Bluff studies at all, perhaps to simulate a certain activity that isn't even present, that you can say we've created studies if we don't do anything else! Or is the result sometimes so dramatic that you say: Before we publish this study, would we rather let it disappear immediately, for we have actually been confirmed what we were afraid of? In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in particular the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in particular the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. In the meantime, have you already become obsolant? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've reckoned you've got ten sections and 80 departments, you've got specialist officers. And that's where I'm wondering about your ministry: Is it always necessary to give all studies out of the house? I think a lot could be created in the ministry as well. But probably some party friends are also involved, giving almost an employment guarantee. We've heard it today: He does the one study, the next then as a follow-up study. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] - I don't understand. If so, you need to talk louder. – Or you want to justify your political action. That's where I have to say: The answer to the question by the Ministry of the Environment was much more detailed than yours. We got a detailed list of the costs of the studies and also about who they were created to. Mr Minister, I am afraid for the future that you are already catching up with the Federal Chancellor with regard to arrogance and ignorance. I do not wish to do so as a Member of Parliament who has a lot to do with you, because we want to work together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the future. Minister! Finally, I would have a specific question as to the role of Mr Smeral, and I would be very interested in that. Mr Smeral is now sitting in the enlarged board of directors of the Austrian advertising and getting the information directly on site. I think Mr Smeral has a corresponding weight in the tourism sector, so I would have liked to hear from you about the role of Mr Smeral. He now sits in the board of directors of the Austrian advertising, can bring in his theoretical knowledge there, but can, of course, also receive all the information. I would be more concerned if Mr Smeral – I speak in the conjunctiv – were to come up with the 1996 tourism report because of his knowledge, which he had brought to the board of directors of the Austrian advertising. That wouldn't be all. But if he had the 1996 tourism report paid by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that would, I think, be objectionable. It will be our job in this House – and I believe that nobody else is interested as much as we are – to ask exactly who he and on what basis he was created at the latest in the 1996 tourism report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13186	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Trattner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13207	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heindl! Excuse me, I have to take a bite on you. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: This is a pleasure to me!]] But we may ask a question about the number of opinions which have been drawn up. Mr Heindl! At least all ministries are about a magnitude of 1 billion schilling. One can also debate the style and way in which these questions are answered. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: This is your own topic!]] It's a subject of its own. We are not provoking anything, and the answer to the question seems insufficient to us by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: That was not my statement!]] That is why we asked for this meeting. This is parliamentary law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Heindl.]] Mr Heindl! That was the reason why we then asked for this meeting. Since we have heard that an opinion does not appear at all in this taxative layout, it may also be possible... [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: Because it was not asked!]] What do you mean, it wasn't asked? It has been asked for the opinion from 1992 to 1995. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: Assigned!]] I'm correcting: commissioned. You're right. If the contract was awarded in 1991, of course you could not know. But according to our information there are also opinions in your department, certain studies in the railway sector, where you say: Are you supposed to mention this opinion at all or not? There's a countercalculation there, so we don't lead it. There is rather a danger that there are many opinions which are not the basis for a political decision, which they should actually be, but there are many opinions which should only justify a political decision afterwards. If such opinions are commissioned, it is actually not in the sense of having these opinions drawn up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! In this reply you gave no indication at all of who has drawn up these opinions, how high the prices for these opinions were. I only take two examples so that we can become a bit more concrete: You have always said that if we want to move something in tourism if we want to move something in our tourism policy, we need an opinion as a basis. Now you have over a hundred opinions, from "crisis management in tourism" to more than 1,000 years of hospitality in Austria" – but nothing has changed on tourism policy at all. [[Abg. May. Peter: We can't make a tourism debate here now!]] Mr Peter! If you are still upset about this as a member of an opposition party, I must tell you quite honestly: Put yourself in bed with the government parties! Unfortunately, you don't need you anymore. But hope at the next election that they will no longer reach the two-thirds majority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have said you have had a lot of studies or advice in the field of road pricing for trucks, because of road pricing for cars. You know very well that part of this revenue from road pricing is already included in the future budgets according to your forecast, and you also know very well that this road pricing system, as the study on the A 555 near Stuttgart shows, is not feasible for cost- and data-technical reasons. [[Abg. Eder: I was there and I know where that is! It's between Brühl and Cologne! Data protection is not a problem!]] Mr Eder! They were there last year, but have not read the report by the German Minister for Transport, who said that the road pricing system is not realistic due to data protection or enormous costs. That is why it really does not make sense for your ministry to put even more money into such advice or analysis. Minister for Economic Affairs! I will go with you in full conformity when you say that opinions are a decisive basis for future laws. But if you have opinions drawn up, where you can almost deliberately recognize the approach, that it actually does not lead to anything, then that is decidedly rejected by the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13349	Mr Van der Bellen has once again spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – You have a speaking time of 12 minutes available.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13370	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Walter Meischberger, in particular! Only four sentences: First: It is true that I was involved in a study of road cost accounting for Austria – involved! Four or five others have played a significant role in this. My role was secondary. Secondly, It is true, as Mr Bundesminister says, that this study was commissioned before 1992 and therefore was not to be mentioned in the reply to the question, because you are asking specifically how many and what opinions et cetera were commissioned this year. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: By publishing it in 1994, I did not believe that it took so long! Two years are going to be rich, I believed!]] I'm sure it took longer. But don't ask me how long it took. But if you're really interested, I can look into my calendar. Third sentence: It also surprised me that there is a sheet of paper on which says: Beautiful summary. A leaf like that was unknown to me to this day. I personally assume that it is an ironic or ironizing expression for a graphically beautiful version of a work that is otherwise – I like to admit – not an aesthetic value – standing the word "Zahlenfriedhof", which you have already mentioned. Point four: I don't know if I really want to get into a discussion about this, but certainly not here: Today, it has to be clear whether this study is the yellow of the egg. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13400	There's no one left in word. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13421	I will now resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda on the federal financial laws 1996 and 1997. Mrs Haller has spoken. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13445	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is now up to me to go back to the Austrian budget policy after the end of the two discussions on questions, and I will take up the thread in the area of women's policy and put it back in the speeches of my previous speakers, Mr Mertel and Mr Bauer. Both have unisono complained of a certain failure in the Austrian women's policy, Mrs Bauer a little more, Mrs Mertel a little less. I now ask a question to the EIA women, who are very weakly represented at the moment. [[Abg. Schuster: It is also about the weak sex!]] But I'm still asking her how it is here... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It is not about quantity, but only about quality!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Please don't talk to women's policy, you really don't understand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Allow me, since I am speaking, to ask a question to the EIA women, who are most likely to shine by absence. How do you really feel about the responsibility for Austrian women's policy? Is social democracy solely responsible for this? . I would like to remind you of the polemic statements made by our Federal Chancellor in today's question of the responsibility for the department. It would interest me to see how the ÖVP women in this area hold! For one thing I have to say: In these many years of Austrian women's policy, the ÖVP women have made it very difficult to find a demarcation to left ideology. I would like to say to Mr Bauer – even if she is not present – that the EIA women are not only once, but have been thrown into the trap of socialism over and over again. And if, for the first time, Mr Bauer has tried here today to abdicate himself from this line, and has acted as if the reason had now been taken into account in the women's policy of the ÖVP, I must say: That doesn't sound very credible! It is not credible when Mr Bauer calls for a recipe for part-time work. What has prevented the EIA from promoting and not just requesting these part-time jobs in all the years of its government with the SPÖ?- Oh, my God! – We liberals have long wanted this! If Mr Bauer thinks today that a real rethinking is necessary, and if he proposes to initiate this on the education of our sons, then I must say that she has only repeated something that I said and requested here in this House five years ago. – The credibility of the EIA's women's policy suffers when one tries to deceive about infallibility in this way. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now to you and to your colleague Mertel: She and another representative of Social Democracy have so far been responsible for this women's resort. In connection with this budget, I now have the question – especially because of the statements of my two previous speakers – whether the steering effect of this ministry was the right one and whether the signals sent by your ministry have gone in the right or the wrong direction. How successful have you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and your predecessor, the combatant Johanna Dohnal, really been in the implementation of your own demands? It looks really bad with that! For many years, Mrs Dohnal has repeatedly dreamed of a number of demands, such as: "equal pay for equal work". This right was set out in the Equal Treatment Act 1992. But where has the success remained? The differences in income between women's incomes and men's incomes are 35 per cent like ever before, they have not been reduced, the sheer has rather continued to disperse. Mrs Dohnal has also attached to her flags the extension and division of the leave period. This success has been reduced again. And the realization of their demand for comprehensive childcare facilities has so far failed with the ideology differences between the two coalition partners. Their demand for social security for caregivers has completely disappeared in the sinking. There is even a very serious deterioration due to the structural adjustment law, namely by the removal of the care allowance from the second hospital day. Even the requirement for pension provision for divorce has so far not been fulfilled. According to the Minister of Justice in the Committee, there may well be a working group dealing with this issue, but the Minister says that this problem is very complex and that its solution will certainly be a long time. On one issue, Mrs Dohnal, at least medial, has been very successful, namely on the subject of sexual harassment. There has also been a legal system in this context, namely the possibility of calling the equal treatment lawyer. But it is precisely the equal treatment lawyer who had to admit that most of the women who have so far benefited from the assistance of the solicitors in this field have lost their jobs. That's what I'm asking myself: Where has the real improvement for Austria's women remained? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Again: What has really brought about the so praised higher employment rate among women, except for additional social security contributions? But what did she actually bring to the women? – Women are urged to work with all possible arguments, without creating the necessary jobs and the necessary childcare opportunities. They want to make their work tasty by all means, and then leave women in the rain again and again. These are the successes of Austrian women's policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has been shown that, especially in this area, Austrian women's priority wishes to politics lie! In a research report by the labour market service in Vienna, it has been concluded that the best possible way to reconcile women's specific areas of life is to make the most of the wish list. Mrs. Federal Minister! Did you vote in the Council of Ministers on the savings package? - No! I think that was one of the most serious mistakes you've made. Have you, Mrs Bundesminister, and also the EIA women noticed that the deterioration caused by the savings package is very likely to affect women? The fact that they are always women who have children and families seems to be no matter the ladies of the ÖVP and the SPÖ! You do not seem to notice that the current trend towards "double income, no kids" will be strengthened in this way in the future and that this will also have social and economic implications in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs. Ridi Steibl! That's where you can say what you want! If you've been thinking in this direction, you haven't gotten through in your policy. [[Abg. Steibl: You don't!]] We're in opposition, we're not ruling, Mrs. Steibl. There's a little difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank God you do not rule!]] Mr Parnigoni! This is about women's policy, and for me you are not exactly the right contact person at best! The main focus – now I come to you men! – this major coalitionary women’s policy lies in order to be media-active – that is what I am thinking of you! . in the introduction of compulsory housework for men, probably in order to divert from the real economic problems of Austrian women. – I really refer to what is being done here as an irresponsible marginal group policy! [[Abg. Steibl: What should we do? Tell us something better!]] Mrs Steibl! An expert from the Ministry of Justice also found that the current legal situation, which is set out in Sections 89 and 95 of the ABGB, and the Judicatur would be perfectly sufficient for the representation of the legal point that men's non-help is already a marital sin. However, this can only be sued in the event of no longer genuine marriage. However, Mr Mertel does not need to make any illusions about this either. Because I don't think it's practicable in the future to sue adultery in the face of ongoing marriage. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: If you continue talking for a long time, you will get the Red Card from your club!]] Please, let me finish my remarks. [[Further calls.]] He doesn't really understand anything. The same applies to the proposal of the VP-Collegine Smoke-Kallat on the mandatory marriage contract. [[Further call of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Shut up! You'll see where you're going with your ladies and your suggestions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not only men who say that all this is not feasible and not practical, even women, practitioners are of this opinion, such as Mrs. Dr. Birnbaum, a divorce specialist, or Mrs. Dr. Helige, a family judge. The latter says: You can't fix a program in the hour zero. – I would like to give you a very good example of the practice, but for reasons of time economy I will give you another time when attention in the area of women’s policy is greater. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying: Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are really interested in proving your ministry's right to exist to free women, then it is really high time that you finally turned to the economic problems of Austrian women and put up with them and not just pursue a policy of announcement or a policy of border groups! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I now have to make two amendments which are more diametrically opposed to women's policy, because my previous speakers have exceeded their speaking time. These are two amendments which have already been tabled as an initiative. The first concerns the government proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for the year 1996 in 70 of the supplements. The National Council wants to decide that the halving of party funding, the halving of press promotion and the removal of election advertising costs to the EU Parliament contribution amounting to a total of 80 million schilling. The second amendment concerns the Government template to the Federal Finance Act 1997 in 71 of the Supplements. Here, the National Council may decide that the promotion of parties and the removal of press promotion must be halved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e13614	Mrs Haller! Do I really understand that anyone else will read all the requests? [[Abg. Haller: I presented the key points!]] So we have to distribute the applications. They have now presented the key points, but they are a relatively large numbering. Please distribute the applications! I take note of both amendments, they are also sufficiently supported and are included in the negotiations. The amendments have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14320	The next speaker was Dr Antoni. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14341	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me read from the chapter: The highest institutions, the Federal Chancellery and the Women's Affairs, only take out the small, narrow area of popular policy. It has been about five hours since I was here – quite surprisingly for me – witnessing a very moderate and conciliatory speech by Mrs Stoisits, who here, as I mean, said very clearly and for myself very responsiblely that she is ready to contribute, on behalf of her group, to the determination of the state and a number of other things brought in in the form of a amendment to the People's Group Act. I am pleased about this confession and hope that we will actually come to a positive decision. I am in favour of a certain change in behaviour, which is to be removed from the effort to demand the impossible in order to achieve what is possible. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is quite right to point out that the way in which a society acts towards its minorities is a very important measure of human attitude. I am convinced – and this is also relatively easy to prove – that this Austrian government, together with the affected federal states and communities, is taking lasting care of the welfare of the Austrian peoples. We are – I should like to stress this – seriously trying, within the framework of existing possibilities, to shape the conditions for the members of the ethnic groups in such a way that they can maintain and develop their culture so that their identity, language, traditions and cultural heritage can be preserved and developed accordingly. Indeed, it is our declared goal to put in place measures in the spirit of tolerance and in the spirit of intercultural dialogue that can promote mutual respect, mutual appreciation and mutual trust. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve these objectives, measures are required at least three levels. Let me present these three levels shortly. The first level concerns the secure provision of budgetary resources. This is always a prerequisite for the corresponding survival of our peoples. It should also be noted that these funds for the promotion of groups have been multiplied over the last ten years. One last, as I believe, was a very clear signal in 1995 when the population promotion was increased by ten million schilling. This was also due to the installation of the Roma and Sinti People's Advisory Council and the recognition of this group, but all the other groups also benefited from these ten million schillings. I find it extremely gratifying - I can add that in the context of the budget debate - that, despite the current savings discussion, it has succeeded in keeping the corresponding budgets at this high level for 1996 and 1997. My previous speaker, Mr Stoisits, said on this question that it was unfortunate that the promotion of groups would be frozen. That's the other position we probably accept. However, I believe that the demand, as was demanded by the Greens as well as the Liberals, to double the promotion of the ethnic groups, to increase them from 50 million to 100 million schilling, is simply not sensible and, according to my understanding, is not particularly serious in times of austerity and in times of budgetary redevelopment. Ladies and gentlemen! At the second level, in order to achieve the objective pursued: In concrete terms, this is about the further development of the Austrian People's Rights. To this end, I would like to say that the existing people's group law has proved itself well over the past two decades, but I believe that, in my opinion, all in our group would make sense of further development in the foreseeable future, while we Social Democrats are on the irrevocable principle that every project of further development should only be conducted in close and intensive dialogue with the essential organisations, in this case, as far as possible, with all the organizations of the Austrian peoples. The social democratic positions and our plans for a corresponding revision of the People's Group Act are well known, and I do not want to present this in detail here, but only in telegram style. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is a matter of upgrading the national councils, we are talking about setting up a body, the so-called Conference of People's Advisory Councils and their alternates to be able to discuss and deal accordingly with problems that concern all groups, and we are also concerned with the introduction of the already mentioned and mentioned state target, i.e. the commitment of the state to its groups. . I would like to say once again that we want to discuss this project only in intensive contact with the groups and in permanent dialogue with them, and I also invite all the other groups in this House to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. The third level I would like to address is the question of the social and political climate in this state. For modern, preventive, forward-looking, yes Europe-oriented groups policy requires a climate of tolerance, not one of intolerance, requires a climate of cooperation and not exclusion, needs a climate of trust and not distrust. We therefore need a fair, objective and forward-looking dialogue, which ensures that national policy can continue to be developed in Austria in the spirit of mutual understanding and will. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14409	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14430	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Bauer, you really surprised me today when you reported on the subject of women and assured me that you will be constantly expressing your views on the problematic situation of women in the future. – I had the impression that your position as Women’s Spokesman of the ÖVP was without comment to your clubman! Not surprisingly, but only in my assessment of your access to women's policy, you have confirmed me with your appeal to us women to still train our sons in partnership. Mrs Bauer! So the women, after your presentation, are guilty of the sad findings of society in this regard. And your offer of discharge to the men was honoured by the representatives of your party – unfortunately also by the women – with a particularly loud applause. In this way, you only confirm that you are handing over the educational work, including all the resulting consequences, exclusively to women. They do not even seem to understand that the influence of intentional education is only a really marginal one. In fact, children are primarily influenced by our society and by their social environment, i.e. also by the absence of men in the field of education, by the social dependence of their mothers and so on. – So much, Mrs Bauer, to your, as I believe, very one-sided appeal. Mrs Haller! The fact that you also support this approach is ultimately significant for women's policy in the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Mrs Mertel! The fact that, out of internal solidarity, you are trying to present your minister's women's policy in a far more bright light than that of reality may still be understandable. . In this context, I see only a paralyzing lamb in your group. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As a woman and a woman's spokesman, I would have liked to see your presence today as an opportunity to discuss new women's policies. However, you are present, but unfortunately your internal resignation is already noticeable. They were absent in the ongoing political debate, and unfortunately you did not represent the interests of women. You made your speech on this debate in good time yesterday. – The key statement of your press release is as follows: Today's society is still a patriarchal with very subtle exclusion mechanisms vis-à-vis women. This is why it is precisely today that the social and political tendencies must be made more important to women's rights, to women's rights, and so on and so on. I can say: how true, Mrs. Minister! But it really can't be a new knowledge of your own! Of course, you were and are aware of this problem, just as you must have recognized the woman-discriminating effects of the bonus malus system. They have recognised these discriminatory effects in the context of the review, but unfortunately they have not been expressed in public. Her party colleague, AK President Hostasch, has also agreed to this anti-female law against better knowledge. Mrs Bauer! Their hope that this bonus malus system will also benefit women will probably not be fulfilled. In this context, there are already very clear statements by the Chamber of Economic Trustees, also statements by the head of the labour market service in Vienna and statements by small business operators that already confirm the negative effects of this bonus malus system. Mrs. Minister! Their place in the government unfortunately has a price, and this price can be paid by women over this legislative period! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Very interesting, very exciting!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You can join your colleague Höchtl... Well! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I spoke to colleagues Schwemlein!]] Then I'll swallow it down again! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, the content of relevant women's policy statements is missing. There were no comments from you on women's unilaterally harmful consolidation measures. Although SPÖ has won the election, it has lost its principles in women's policy, and not even you as women's minister - at least in the approach - have defended women here. Now, after the Government Declaration, it is too late to complain about the situation via APA and ask women to deal with the complex of neoconservatism. – I quote from an OTS message of 20. March 1996: "There will be a patriarchal campaign against the progress of women in the field of equality, which is still a success." This is how you show concern. I quote: "Not least thanks to the second largest party in Austria, the push has taken on a right form. The tradition of home and herd, as well as the unfavoured old and nursing care, went to the men to be resumed." – That is the right way to complain, Mrs. Minister. Just now, allow me to address the question to you: Who is responsible for this? Who didn't represent the women's positions? Who was in the negotiation team? Another margin note to the keyword "Heim und Herd", Mrs Bauer, as you now confess to your position as a woman's spokesperson: There is an event on the topic "Heim an den Herd", and there you could certainly accelerate this process through very constructive contributions. It's like this: Unfortunately, the women's questions clearly show the manuscript of a neoconservative ÖVP, represented by her clubman Dr. Khol, and therefore the government declaration did not even give explanations of intent on this question. I really hope for women, Mrs Minister, that you will be able to implement, at least at least, the legally guaranteed constitutional equality of women into political reality. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There are no approaches to further developing the private bankruptcy right to protect those women who are involved in crediting their husbands. Several press articles repeatedly point to this problem; unfortunately, this has not been taken up by you. At least the statement of intent is missing. It is also no longer a question of linking public funding to the economy with the creation of qualified jobs. We know that an intensification of the situation on the labour market is predictable. Unfortunately, there are no initiatives to ensure a fair share of employment for women. On the contrary, when I think of the bonus malus system. The number of minor employees, including most women, is increasing. This was confirmed now by a broadcast of the Chamber of Workers Vienna. The Chamber of Labour Vienna believes that it would be an hour to remove exceptions from the social security obligation and close loopholes. Madam President, Hostasch! Have you not also voted in favour of the derogation from the newspaper colporteurs? Have you not also bowed down to the media with your party colleagues and the ÖVP? With these contributions, which escape social security, you would have had at least one fund at your disposal to address the problem of minorly employed women and their social security. But this, Madam President Hostasch, is just another example of the incompatibility of your position with the mandate of a national council member and another sad example of the finding of Austrian parliamentarianism. The idea of compensation for pensions in the case of divorce, still part of the last declaration of government, has also died. Mr Sozialminister Hums has unfortunately missed all visions in this direction in the course of an answer to a question. Gender-neutral regulations with regard to night work are pending. I miss your position, Mrs. Minister. It is precisely because of this unsustainable law that many women's jobs are under discussion; many women have lost jobs or have not received them at all. It is still being thought very loudly about other forward-looking protection mechanisms for women, which will also expensive women's night work for entrepreneurs. But this will certainly have a counterproductive effect on the creation of women's jobs. We will also not tire out – in this respect I support the colleague Bauer – to demand more flexible working time models. This is not only out of economic necessity, but also because they would bring far more flexible conditions for all those workers who have to take care of them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The situation on the labour market will continue to grow. Work must be shared in the future – but not only between men and women in employment and unemployed men, but also between men and women. In the course of the social debate, I have already pointed out the intention and the problem of subsidising women's apprenticeships in atypical professions, not only from the problem of the positioning of girls in the respective establishments. This danger has already been pointed out by social scientists. I would just like to say once again: These girls, who are subsidized with the support of 4,000 s per month, will therefore not yet find a job in the professional fields of the male domains for a long time, especially if men are available; in particular, cost-intensive conditions will prevent businesses from recruiting women. It is no longer a question of extending the reporting periods for the karenz period. There is no proposal to adapt at least the shorter reporting periods of men to those of women. There are no approaches to flexibilise these reporting periods in order to maintain at least a theoretical opportunity for the use of care by men. It is no longer a question of improving the enforceability of maintenance claims, and neither your attempt, Mrs. Minister, overregulation and the legal definition of the partnership division of housework as a ground for divorce nor the mandatory contract arrangement à la Rauch-Kallat, nor the mandatory teaching by stand officials à la Bartenstein will solve this problem. It cannot be the responsibility of the State to determine marital sin in the context of the issue of indebtedness as a ground for divorce. Instead of giving thought to more regulation, you should rather consider good maintenance arrangements and basic social security for women. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Konrad! The regionalization of the solicitorship for equal treatment issues and the revision of the equal treatment law were at least for a short time part of your government statement in 1996. Just a few weeks later, the project of regionalization was abandoned and a revision of the equal treatment law – contrary to the proposals of the equal treatment lawyers – was called "necessary". You, Mrs. Minister, have focused the entire debate on women's policy: the "child care millions" – and you have thought of giving this to women as a quasi-compensation. However, women's policies cannot be reduced to childcare. Creating framework conditions for the optimal care of children is a social requirement, which is a claim our children have. If it is always complained that the desired number of children does not hold the balance, then I can only quote those examples, such as Norway, Denmark and France, countries where the close relationship between the actual number of children and the framework conditions becomes particularly clear. In principle, however, we consider this care initiative to be of course positive and it is also very reasonable that these funds should finance not only the re-establishment of childcare places, but also training initiatives as well as more flexible care periods. We also ask you not to overlook initiatives towards the installation of farm kindergartens. In this respect, there seems to be a very great, very generous pilot project in the Federal Chancellor's Office, an operational kindergarten, which, as I believe, was quite generously equipped with budget resources, namely, with around 2.5 million schillings. In this kindergarten there are gratifying, even optimal conditions for the children: two groups of ten children each, six caregivers, care periods, I think, between seven in the morning and eighteen in the evening. At least that's what was announced. I am pleased for these children who find these excellent care opportunities, and I can only hope that you will also initiate similar projects elsewhere in order not to raise the suspicion of preferring these children to others at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There are no approaches to education in this budget either; I also support Mrs Bauer in this regard. Women's policy is cross-sectional; however, continuing vocational training is dominated by men. This is particularly problematic for women because women have lower chances of rise than men. In the field of education, Mrs Minister, you would have a broad field of responsibility. Education discrimination against women is still existent, even though the girls there, at least in the case of the maturants, are catching up. However, for 20 to 29-year-olds, 25 percent still do not have higher education than compulsory school. This is a worrying situation, even if one considers the close link between education, employment and income, and this is certainly a reason for the higher rate of unemployment of women in all areas, as well as for the lower pay of women in all areas, and also for women having only half of the amount of pension paid by men. Kodukation can rightly be described as a milestone in school policy. But you know very well – also about this interministerial working group – that it is necessary to achieve real rethinking in the minds of men and women, since there is a need for specific approaches. As long as the traditional role behaviour is unreflected in school, we will unfortunately not be able to achieve significant success. In this respect, the Minister's initiatives, starting with teacher training, would be urgently required. You, Mrs Minister, have called this budget courageous and offensive. – However, women are found primarily only in those areas where savings are concerned. As Minister of Women, they have contributed the savings and emergency operations combined with subtle methods of raising money from that government; Women must thus contribute disproportionately to fiscal consolidation. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, I think you have given up any vision of women's politics. They do not even show such subtle discrimination as the age limit of 35 for women who want to adopt a child – an age limit that does not exist in men. You do not need money to do this, but, Mrs Minister, you simply have to set up activities. I'm telling you quite honestly: I miss your motivation, and I think you have to ask yourself whether you still have the legitimacy to represent women, whether you can even be an moral authority. Women's policy cannot be reduced to money in times of budget scarcity either! It is the task of a women's minister to represent positions to contribute to the change of consciousness. – You should have put your weight in the balance as a minister so that the differences in the treatment of women and men are mitigated! Unfortunately, you did not. I would just like to conclude with a comparison which should make the situation of women clear again in everyday life: The fastest runner at the Vienna Marathon received 60 000 S for handling this route. The best runner, on the other hand, received 130 000 S for the management of the equally long route. By this you can see: Women would have to run more than twice as much for the same amount, and they would also have to win more than twice. With you, Mrs Konrad, we will probably need a very long breath for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14520	Mrs Steibl is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14541	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I talk about my real subject, about minority policy, I cannot ignore giving a reply to Mrs Schaffenrath. I think that we are going a wrong way. – I am, so to speak, an established woman and family politician; I have work and not just an income without work. That is, I also have a job as a primary or secondary job, depending on how you see it. So I know what I'm talking about. If we do more than ever make a glass house policy or a ghetto policy for women in the future, we do nothing good for women ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That was just an example!]] I believe that it is our task – both the task of men and women – to lead girls and boys to independence, and to achieve equality between sexes. I support what Rosemarie Bauers said: We mothers have it in hand to pave the way for our children – whether girls or burgers. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: You release the men from responsibility!]] – And I also believe that our Federal Minister will follow this path if we give her a certain amount of time. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: I want to keep my mind on that!]] I would now like to refer to the problem of minority policy, and I would also like to go a little further than the one that my colleague Antoni has taken and say: I believe that this is a small area in the Federal Chancellor's Office, but a very, very important one, because in the end everything is moving a little towards minority policy. The structural adjustment law and the forthcoming budget savings also make significant cuts in this area, which means that there will at least be no increase in the budget for the promotion of groups over the next two years. However, it must be said that since 1988 the funds have increased from 4.2 million schilling to 52 million schilling, but they remain the same in 1996 and 1997. I know that this is not enough for some groups, and I understand it. But the division should be really project-oriented and not as it is now sometimes the case that there is a very opaque distribution key. There is still a lot to be changed, especially in the field of community and community advisory support. Another very, very important point is – we cannot just promote everything with money – the whole People's Group Act. I believe that there should be a further development in this area, one that is adapted to the EU's lifestyle. It is a question of how we deal with certain problems not only in minority policy, but also in terms of violence and so on. And it is also the question to ask if there would be no need for a revision of the People's Group Law. I'm actually a little surprised – but I've only been working in this field for a year and a half – how much resistance there is from different people's group representatives, better supposed representatives of the groups, often only because of being able to profile themselves, but that ultimately doesn't help the groups. A little bit about the Styrian Slovenians; there has been a discussion about this for a long time. Colleague Stoisits – she is not here now – the "great" group representative not only in the Burgenland, but throughout the federal territory, it operates that for the Styrian Slovenians she supposedly places in masses, it also comes to the establishment of her own advisory council. As early as January 1994, she asked Chancellor Vrnitzky whether, with regard to the popular rights of the Styrian Slovenians, an advisory council is now being created. – In response, the Federal Chancellor noted that the People's Advisory Council for the Slovenian People's Group, which has been working since 1989, was called upon to address also the questions of the Styrian Slovenians. - That's what it's all about. I also do not know why two neighbouring states like the Styria and Carinthia should be "shared" in this respect. On the one hand, we talk about merger, union – on the other hand, we often think very small. I believe that in this case, there should be no special mention of a group that should not form: At the last census, only every twelfth Radkersburger has been called Slovenian speaking. A "unity of friends to promote and implement the cultural and school rights, claims and activities of Austrian citizens in Styria referred to in Article 7 of the 1955 State Treaty" – that is, this association – wants to set up this advisory board, but I do not fully understand that, because this group is at the University of Graz and ultimately has very little to do with the practice on the ground. In any case, I believe that the people's group policy can be most strongly supported by the national councils themselves. For me it was strange – to bring just one example; I am a member of the Roma and Sinti Groups Advisory Councils – that Roma and Sinti do not even bring together a pilgrimage. Part of the Roma travels to Pöllau, the other part to Mariazell. They do not meet because they cannot discuss certain things with each other. What do I mean by that? . We will be able to achieve very, very difficult, a joint innovation of the People's Group Law, we who have the task of contributing to this when it is so difficult to talk to each other within the Advisory Boards, and if there are still Members or non-members, or those who would like to come to Parliament, but who are igniting and ultimately do not contribute to the welfare of these people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14614	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14636	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Women's People's Lawyers! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to my intention to talk about women's policy, let me begin with a reply to the comments made by my previous speaker, Mrs Steibl. Mrs Colleague, you were wrong at the point where you talked about the Styrian Slovenians. It is true that there are few, that is undisputed, but of course you also know the reasons for this: not only why it is so few, but also why it is so difficult to really experience in a census how large their number is. There is a story in the Styria – in the south Styria and in the south-west and south-east Styria – that makes it impossible for people even more than in Carinthia to indicate which minority they feel in the language: There is a very own history of assimilation, the seemingly gentle assimilation, which in this perfunctory structure meant a hard-to-understand form of oppression and oppression of those people who were Slovenian's mother tongue and who still want to speak Slovenian today. To make it short: I mean, it should be undisputed to support the objectives of this "Article 7 agreement" – one must not artificially complicate it there; in the whole of Styria this association is well-known as "Article-7-Verein" –. After such a long debate – since the Styrian ÖVP has not played a glorious role – it should actually be time to say: Well, today we have a different attitude to minority policy as a whole, there should also be a national advisory board. It would be really necessary and right to support them in the efforts that the Slovenian language will again be recognized there, at least can be spoken without the people being pressured there. The bilingual school is really an achievement, and it has changed a lot in recent years, I refer to it. [[Abg. Steibl: But an achievement of the ÖVP!]] There have been many failures, but there has been a pick-up in recent years, but then you don't have to try to separate out here. I do not think that the proposal to unite the Styrian Slovenians and the Carinthian Slovenians in an advisory board is very successful, because the historical development of the two is basically another and the self-understanding of the people in Carinthia and Styria is also another. This should also be taken into account in minority policy, I think. - Just so much for it. But now I come to talk about women's policy. There, too, when I listened like that, I was surprised by what was said out there. I think it would be time for us to get so far that, regardless of different positions in some areas and regardless of the different political views, i.e. ideological principles, we can get through to admit that there is an urgent need for action in some areas. I thought that these areas were not at all disputed, but I was very surprised at what was going on here. Mrs Haller, for example, has shown a lot of what is somehow right; however, in her speech, she did not mention any word, which is the notions of the liberals on this and that point. It is right to point out in the equal treatment report that women who turn to the equal treatment lawyer are under pressure. – But please, what should be the summation? Is it supposed to be a summary that we're abolishing the lawyer?- Oh, my God! Mr Haller has shown many such points, which are so superficially presented correctly, but an answer to all these questions is the essential thing. Mrs Schaffenrath – she is not inside now, but she may hear it – yes, there have been many shortcomings in women's policy. I think it is very necessary to attach these shortcomings to a minister now, to a minister who is relatively new, without now wanting to defend them. I think that the question of the success of women's policy is absolutely essential. They have blamed Mr Bauer for saying that we women should have a partnership with our sons. – And I think it is also because the accusation is not to be made in one direction – not a woman alone bears the blame for the failure in women’s policy, but the majority of men here, the majority of men on the government bank, in my opinion, bear the greater share of responsibility for what has not been enforced. In fact, I still have optimism that certain areas are in principle out of dispute, and we should focus on them. I think it is out of the question that women's representation in political bodies is urgently increased, that it must not only approach, but actually reach, within a time frame of four years, until the next national election of the 50 percent quota. There is consensus on this, but there is an urgent need for action to talk about how we can achieve that women are so further represented not only in Parliament, not only in the Federal Government, but also in country days, in state governments, in municipal offices. There are countries in Europe in which this is a matter of course; on the other hand, this is something exotic with us. So let's talk about it! We have tabled a legislative proposal for this. Let us therefore talk about legislative initiatives, about women's promotion plans, through which women in political, public life should be supported to get where men have been for a long time, namely on the career leader or in political representatives. I am convinced that then there would be a different look. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: Look at the share of women in schools! The share of women among teachers: What has become of better practice in schools? The presence of women...]] The presence of women is not yet a guarantee, but it is a good condition for something to change. I'll tell you that. I am convinced that in schools too, much has changed compared to a time of 30, 40 or 50 years ago when mostly men were teachers. There will be studies showing this. I do not understand why there would be any woman in there who would refuse to create these conditions. For equal treatment. I think it is urgently necessary to finally implement the much-quoted, much-known constitutional change. There is a proposal to request from the Greens. There was a proposal from the Minister in the last legislative period. This should be taken up, I believe, in this legislative period. Women's promotion plans in the public service also need to be evaluated and improved. We have launched such a series of inquiries. There have been shortcomings in particular in the fact that there are no uniform guidelines and minimum standards for women's promotion plans, they are therefore very different and the success in the different ministries is very different. In our opinion, it would be necessary, in the broadest sense, to provide for comprehensive women's promotion plans in all areas, or a command to support women in the broadest sense. There are enough examples, not only from the Nordic countries, but also from the Netherlands or Belgium, as such women's promotion plans can look forward to, with a corresponding balance of success with regard to the situation of women in leadership and political life. I believe that the regionalisation of the equal treatment lawyers is an urgent concern. We have heard in the Committee on Budgets that, although the legislative novels have been agreed and agreed, there is no financial means and no planning posts, however, that the hope or the possibility - I do not know how to express this otherwise - is that within the next one or two years in one or maximum in two federal states, as required, such bodies will be established. I think that this answer is totally unsatisfactory, and not just because of this small number. This regionalisation is an old and urgent concern. There are already concrete calculations of how much such regionalization would cost. However, in this debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I have been disturbed by the wording "as necessary". Because what does "need" mean? The reports of the equal treatment lawyer clearly show that the need has increased considerably only after the lawyer has been there and has exercised her activity for more than a year. It is not until then that there is, as it were, a place to turn to and seek advice on which to seek information or to initiate procedures. It is only after that that, in my opinion, that the appropriate needs can be identified. I'm trying to streamline my statements. But there is still, as it were, a whole range of concerns and necessary changes under this equal treatment law, which are partly included in the equal treatment report and are already known from the last legislative period. There have been very sensitive areas for the spasm in this year, which means nothing but the continuation of inequality between men and women. I am now addressing pensions, the minimum pension age, the care scheme and the childcare facilities. In particular, with regard to childcare facilities, I would like to stress once again that 1 billion has been promised twice in the course of the election campaign. It is totally incomprehensible to me how to reduce this and not to worry about what campaign was carried out, and that is crucial. In the 1994 election, women's policy was a very crucial policy area which affected electoral behaviour, as we already knew after the election. At the time, you promised the Kindergarten billions. However, you have adopted this budget at the latest, and one of our views is that we do not have sufficient solution: You have not only shortened this amount, but also the agreement you have now reached with regard to the Ministry of Women and the Ministry of the Family is too vague, too insecure and too inaccurate as that could really be decided according to quality, not quantity, and not only after new construction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there is still a lot to be done in the general area. We assume that there is a plurality of life forms: In our view, there is not only marriage and family but different forms of living. There are heterosexual and homosexual communities, there is the situation of single parents and single parents, there are singles. And all these different forms of life must also be taken into account, in the form of a revision of relevant laws that hinder this plurality. Thus, for example, the acquisition of housing property or an adoption in the case of living communities should be possible. However, it would also be necessary to reform the right of divorce in such a way that the amount of maintenance payments depends not only on the amount of debt but also on the extent of the care work done. This would also require a revision of the marriage law. Finally, the issue of violence against women, the question of violence in the family and violence against children is one of this area, which unfortunately is still up-to-date in women's policy. In this area too, appropriate legal measures are required. It is necessary to bring about a change in the system of execution, so that a disfellowshipping of the violent person from the common home can also be possible in the event of community and violence against children. In our view, it is not only the stock of women's homes to be maintained, but also the further expansion of women's homes. And it is ultimately ensured by a women's promotion law also the stock and the possibility of expanding women's advisory services. By the way – that is what Mr Haller has also mentioned – I consider a very important area in the equal treatment package to be the issue of sexual harassment at work. It would be urgently necessary for one to finally return to a burden of proof in order to facilitate women, to overcome the obstacle and to actually go to the equal treatment lawyer. Last but not least: Of course, the European Union is also part of this large area of tasks to be done: What is the Austrian position we are taking at the Intergovernmental Conference? In addition to the already almost self-evident call for an own Women's Council of Ministers, it is necessary that women's policy be included in the objective and that women's promotion should be included in the field of equality and the actual equality of treatment of women so that it can no longer be judged like that of last year's Bremen. – In our opinion, there should be agreement on this, regardless of certain ideological considerations. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Bauer's appeal that we should do something to help women in the education of our sons, that they grow up in a partnership and get along with and understand it. – The appeal is right, I can accept it. The great But follows on the foot, however. For I mean – and this too should be a matter of course – that women are only part of those involved in education. At least there are at least fathers who can participate in the education and do the following: They have a role to play in the idea of what it means to live a life of partnership. This attitude can convey them. This is one area – let alone, that the growing sons experience only a relatively small share of their socialization in the family and through the mother, but a much larger one, however, in kindergartens, in schools where they are located afterwards – be it now teaching, workplace, university or elsewhere. This area should therefore be given at least as much attention as the mother's share in the education of her sons. But now my final sentence: The model function of the ÖVP-Klubobmann Dr. Khol may have been decisive for Mrs. Bauer's statement. For if a person like him believes that family affairs and educational work can be arranged in the Sunday breakfast and that the education and supervision of grandchildren can also be left to the grandmother, then it is easily possible that such assessments can be made.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14718	Mrs. Konrad has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14739	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on some of your considerations. Many of you have very probably agreed that in the last 20 years something has changed for women to the positive. Nevertheless, this is a fact that everyone knows – women are still exposed to a networked system of disadvantages, and this networked system of disadvantages can only be met with a whole bunch of measures. The only measure that gives equal rights to all women does not exist. That's what we all know about. Therefore, if we look at various points, at least not always the argument should come from women's politicians: You should not do that or that, for something else would be more important! I agree with this on a subject that has been frequently addressed today, partly with misunderstanding, namely the redistribution of supply work: Many of you do not see the connections – perhaps also consciously. That's what it says: The Minister for Women should rather make sure that the differences in income between women and men are reduced once. First of all, I have to say – and that has always been my predecessor – that: The wage negotiations and the social partners' negotiations are not conducted under the direction of the Minister for Women, otherwise they would probably look different. - That's one. Secondly, It is precisely the fact that women alone are responsible for the provision of services that results in women being regarded as so-called unsafe workers. The reason for women's having to use part-time work or precarious employment is not because women like to do so, but because they have to put everything under one hat. And if you don't see these connections, I'm really sorry. Because that's the Crux. It is precisely about the fact that we finally have to create a society capable of sharing the burden of supply work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mother.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They ask: Who's going to do this? – That’s what we’re going to share, men and women, that’s the idea! There are also enough examples for this. We don't need to pretend in Austria that's something we're inventing. This is quite different in the case of the many Nordic societies. So that's possible. A consideration that I put instead is just a change in family law. We have 20 years of experience. We know – and this is always said – that there is already, in some way, an anchoring of the division of housework. We know, however, that the principle of partnership is only half-hearted in these laws and that, as has been said, the laws are not enough to guarantee equal rights for women. All we want is for the principle of partnership to be more clearly defined in these laws. If some of you have said: We have similar interests and are not so far apart, then I ask you to take a serious look at what considerations we have been considering here. What is against this is that in these laws we make the principle of partnership more clear and insist that care work is not only domestic work, but also the education of children and also the care of old and sick relatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Again: The day has only 24 hours. If the women remain solely responsible for the care work, it will not be possible for them to be equal in the profession. They will continue to be exposed to the many open and hidden discriminations. I can also say that we are active in this area. We have produced a brochure entitled: "Johanna Bond and the glass ceiling." There will also be seminars on which there is intense demand, which has been very well received. For even the women in the enterprises can see these open and hidden discriminations and get suggestions on how they can take their stand. Another problem that we have to tackle, and where we have at least taken a small step, is the question: How can women reconcile work and family? A demand in this context, in which we have always met again and again, was the question of the expansion of childcare facilities. This has been a subject for years, and it has been pushed back and forth for years. It's clear to us: That is country competence, the Federation can and does not want to take it and acquire it, but this time we have succeeded – and that does not apply – is that we give at least 600 million schilling as an additional initial inflammation to the countries in the sense of a co-financing project. So it will not be the case that money will simply be given to the countries after a distribution key, which will then have to do something with it, but the countries will have to co-finance at least 50 percent. With this sum, it is at least possible to quickly create thousands of additional childcare facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to clarify a few things because the "billion" is always spoken of: This billion is, please, a media term. I was responsible from the very beginning: It was a three-year model project for which 1 billion schilling should be available. So every year, that's just over 300 million schilling. That's what it was supposed to do. Then the interruption came by the election. It was clear to read: The projects are on the table. – You are on the table with me, I can confirm that. We have now succeeded in obtaining a grant of 600 million Schilling for 1996/97. And who prevents us when this is important to us and when we see that this model works to say in a few years: The League can give an initial inflammation in this direction again? There are very clear criteria with regard to these "child care millions". That's what we agreed on. The title would be: Compatibility of work and family. That means: We would like to create facilities all day, including quality facilities with trained staff, appropriate opening hours, corresponding holiday schemes, social staggering. All of this is planned, and I think we should be glad that after many years this has been done for the first time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you also created care facilities for disabled children? There are too few of them!]] That's right. For childcare facilities, the creation of inclusive kindergartens or childcare facilities is of course important. This will of course be taken into account. Also, attention is focused on the creation of farm kindergartens as well as on the creation of tailor-made kindergartens. Privately, of course, can also bring in their ideas. But what we clearly need to do from the Federation is to conduct the negotiations with the countries. Otherwise, the resolution is not possible, that is, it is not possible with individual partners. But the competent authorities of the countries will submit proposals to us, and a Commission will select the projects. This will certainly also be taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Federal Minister! Make the integration the edition! Because that's where it's hurrying!]] I'd like to take this suggestion! I'll bring that in! If we talk about the directives, I will be happy to introduce this aspect. I can promise you this! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There is nothing for disabled children with disabilities! There must also be something to be done.]] I also have to repeat this: I know that there is still a lot of need, even in the first years of schooling for children. But I would ask you now to see that we cannot do everything we would have to do with the 600 million. We have now said that these 600 million are to be used for children from birth to school, to put a visible focus once and to put in place a tangible measure for the people who need it. But I say again: I am open to these things because I know how important and how urgently this is needed. In this case, however, the money must be used for the area that I have now outlined. I would like to return to the needs for women, especially the work and family, once again. They mentioned the numbers; I know them too. I say again: As far as supply work is concerned, something has to be done and something changed. I am of your opinion that laws alone cannot achieve this. But I would ask you to take seriously the discussion we are now having. For for a while this has been rejected as ridiculous, and I still experience that there is a whirlwind and a smile on it. I'll tell you: At the World Women's Conference in Beijing, no one smiled about this at all, and the question of the redistribution of paid and unpaid work is also a very important passage in the final document. I ask you – and will also address you accordingly – to discuss this matter seriously, and I repeat what has also come from you: We're not as far apart as we believe. I think we all want to do something in this direction. The question has also been asked: What can the Minister of Women do? - I don't want to defend myself here, but: I carried this. I've spoken about how I see it. But I say again: I am of the opinion that we can do this, and I would be glad if we did so together. If the Minister of Women had a right of access in all women-related areas, it would be wonderful. Because then it would be possible to say: Here and here and here we will change something. . But, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schaffenrath, in particular, I do not need to tell you what the conditions of power are. The Minister for Women is only one among many and must, under the prevailing conditions, try to enforce what is possible. The fact that the Minister for Women has a right of access in all women's areas is not possible, if it were beautiful. You can all listen to my ideas. Of course, this is a question of political debate and also of opportunities. However, the Minister of Women is careful in this area. You mentioned a number of things here, which you do not think has happened. It was claimed that the compensation was "died". I can inform you: The opposite is the case: We have done concrete preparatory work and have also given a study assignment. In the shortest time, probably in two weeks, we will present our ideas for independent age insurance for women. Because the compensation is far from fair for all women. For your information: They also pointed out that the women's minister's voice was supposed to be missing for night work. That's not true either. There is a working group in which the Minister of Women, of course, participates very intensively. However, I do not share your view that the protection of women with regard to night work would be counterproductive and that it is only about the interests of the economy. On the contrary: Night work is harmful to everyone, and we are trying to find a solution that is just for everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: I hope so!]] Some of you have also said that nothing is said about the maintenance claims. On the contrary: There is also an appropriate working group, which intensively deals with it, for example with the consequences of divorce. In this area too, the question of supply work falls. There are very specific proposals from us on the subject of maintenance and on various other aspects. I am also happy to provide you with information. Information must also be obtained. I can't know what you're interested in right now. I have the feeling that we are discussing and informing very widely. But the information just needed must be obtained in a certain way. But as I said, I can inform you about our proposals. I believe that the 1994 report says somewhere that no further revision of the law on equal treatment is necessary. I can only say: I am not directly responsible for 1994. But that shows the problem, what happens when law and enforcement are separate. On the matter I can say: Of course, there is a need to change the law on equal treatment. We have a long list. Very soon you will be confronted with the so-called little novel. But there will also be a greater one – Mrs Kammerlander mentioned this – which will also raise the question of the burden of proof and other questions. So there are a number of initiatives. You, Mrs Schaffenrath, have, I believe, also said that the women get less and the men more, up to the Vienna marathon. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: That was just an example!]] That was new to me, too. I have taken this up, and in the meantime, to name just this tiny detail, I am already active in this matter. Because that's not how it can stay! I'd like to show you this: Although the resources and human resources of the Minister of Women are extremely modest, there are a number of activities that are involved in all areas. Other Members have also addressed the women's service agencies, the women's promotion plans and the measures against violence against women and children. To do this, I can say: As far as the question of violence against women and children is concerned, there is a relevant bill. You may already know, but I should like to mention once again that three pilot projects on intervention agencies against violence are under way with the modest means that the Minister of Women has. I hope that we will finally be able to transfer these to the rule of law with the change of law. The same applies to the regionalisation of the institution of the equal treatment lawyer. So you run into my open doors. We have done all the preparatory work, we have presented an expansion plan. We have presented the calculations. At a time when 100 billion schillings have to be saved, one – let's say: – has been necessary. However, there is no question that the regionalisation of the institution of equal treatment lawyers is always necessary. I don't know, Mrs Kammerlander, where you're from: There can be no mention of "as needed". There is a clear development plan which provides for at least one equal treatment lawyer in each federal state. I have just said in the Committee what I can do with the modest resources that the Minister of Women has, which has not received anything in addition. Despite everything, I'm going to try, although I haven't got a schilling anymore, to start a pilot attempt in a federal country. In a federal country that is willing to provide the necessary infrastructure, we will once set up a pilot project on this equal treatment lawyer. The issue of anchoring the de facto equality of women in the Constitution was also addressed. – Of course, this is an up-to-date issue. We talked about this. I have also said that I will come to you so that we can find a common formulation. In this context too, I say: We're not so far apart. If this is important to us, I also believe that we can implement it, and I do not accept that we are pushing it to the EU and saying: Well, we need or cannot do anything because the EU provides otherwise for this ruling of the European Court of Justice. That's not the case. We have been preparing this change in the Constitution for a long time before there was any reference to an ECJ judgment. It is still true that it is not only a question of ensuring equal treatment in the Federal Service – it is always mistakenly mixed together – but it is a matter of defining in the Constitution the de facto equal treatment as the objective of the state – that is to state that this is important to us in Austria. That's the idea. Again: I don't think we're so far apart. I hope that we will find common opportunities in these initiatives – and I could continue there, but I do not want to do so in the light of the late hour – and that we will continue to do so positively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14873	I call Mr Leikam. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14894	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I now turn to women's policy and to another subject. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: There we are surprised!]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Leikam, don't you understand anything about women?]] Yes, I do. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Don't you understand anything about women?]] Meschberger, you understand something about the up-and-down business, yellow? I would like to turn to another issue, namely the Court of Auditors – also a chapter of the Supreme Institutions. The President of the Court of Auditors has been here for over ten hours, but no one here has talked about this important institution today. In order for the President of the Court of Auditors not to come to the House for nothing today, I have to deal with a number of questions with the Court of Auditors. – Of course, in a short time, I would like to say that. First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the work they did again last year. It is not a pleasant and easy work. I too am one of those who constantly criticize the work of the Court of Auditors – less in the work of the individual employees, but rather more in the management of the Court of Auditors. However, it must be noted that the work of the Court of Auditors has not been reduced. The work has become more. We here in Parliament too have allocated much more to the Court of Auditors through several special audits. However, we were also generous in the allocation of the planning sites, which should also be said to be done. There are now much more plans for the Court of Auditors than was the case two years ago. Mr President, Dr. Fierce! About a year ago – it is actually the first time to talk about it in Parliament today – they left something out medially, as it were, that has caused some discussions. You said at the time that the Court of Auditors would have to be separated from Parliament if I understood you correctly. . I was, honestly, very surprised at your thoughts, which you played in the public at the time, because in the time of your activity in the Court of Auditors, I always felt that about 95 to 98 percent of the test cases were ordered by you, to the fullest extent: Whoever will be tested, how and during which period will be checked. And I have already seen from this that the Court of Auditors as such is an institution under Parliament's control, but has a very broad, almost 100% independence with regard to its duties. There have been very few sub-areas where Parliament has specifically requested additional auditing from the Court of Auditors. Your statement, your media presentation, Mr President, at least gave me the impression that you were being hindered by Parliament in the work in the Court of Auditors. Perhaps you can then explain to me in your opinion how you meant it. Then another point, Mr President Dr. Fierce, I said this at the meeting in the Committee on Budgets, and I must do it again here: It is still clear that there is no satisfactory situation as regards the publication of Court of Auditors reports. On the one hand, in the case of the raw reports: From case to case, especially when political parties fit, those who are mostly in the opposition appear somewhere in the Court of Auditors' raw report. It will then be discussed publicly about a company for months. This is not good for the company if, before this company has a chance to comment on it, it is reported in the media. But I probably already know your answer to it; it has always been the same in recent years. But I think, Mr President, we should all work together to ensure that such raw reports do not come to the public before the audited company has a chance to comment on them. - That's the part. The second part concerns the Court of Auditors' report as a whole. There have recently been some specific cases in which the audited body has made massive accusations against the Court of Auditors, for example, the President of the Vienna City School Council, who is even talking about a strong loss of confidence to the President of the Court of Auditors because he was assured, namely the head of the section responsible, that, at the same time as the follow-up of the Court of Auditors' final report to Parliament, the audited body, in this case the Vienna City School Council, has the Court of Auditors' final report. But that was not the case: The President of the Vienna City School Council received him 24 hours later, and there was a media judgment again, without the President of the Vienna City School Council being able to defend himself, because he did not know what was in the final report. In another case, some housing cooperatives in Carinthia were affected. I have received this report four days later in the Court of Auditors as a competent member and as a political group speaker in the Committee on the Social Democratic and Democratic Affairs and Citizens' Rights, after questions on this matter had already been addressed to me by the media, how to understand what is contained in this Court of Auditors report. – I don’t think it can be that way, and so it must not go on. One last point, Mr President Dr. Fierce, which I would like to raise shortly, concerns the general appreciation of certain events. As I have already said, the Court of Auditors is the control body of Parliament. The Court of Auditors should examine it in full, but the Court of Auditors should not be valued. He should not make political views; this should be reserved for politicians. It is always the case that the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has also made various valuations, which, depending on the matter, are gratefully taken up by the political parties. The discussion in the public that the Court of Auditors is not free of party political influence is, of course, reinforced by the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors has made political views in various areas. One such point, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, was the question of border protection, to which you have delivered an opinion, which, of course, has been gratefully taken up by some of this House: You have clearly made a political assessment, which, as I believe, should be reserved to the parties – and not the President of the Court of Auditors. I would ask you, Mr President, to give me an answer to these my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14960	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e14982	Mr President! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr State Secretary! – It will be complicated to bring the greetings to this chapter of the budget right over the stage. - High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A different subject from that to which my previous speaker has devoted himself: the ethnic groups. They also belong to the Federal Chancellery. When it comes to the ethnic groups and their promotion, we must not ignore the fact that progress has been made in recent years and decades, that large modo Austria, the Republic, does not need to generate for how it deals with the peoples, even what the finances are doing. Nevertheless, we must recognise that there is not enough overall in this sector. It is above all two of the groups that fall under the People's Group Law, which, as I see things, have to deal with financially expressed bottleneck situations. Once again, the Roma and Sinti people's group, which, above all, is financially equal to what is being made available to it, cannot be equal because it has only been able to achieve political structuring very late in the past, because there is not a long time for the People's Advisory Council, and therefore the financial grants that could have actually been due before the establishment of the Roma and Sinti Groups Councils. If you look at the work of the idealists, who accept the things of the Roma and Sinti peoples, from nearby and attentive, you can see how the work of the idealists – which means from the beginning: from below zero – must start with everything and everyone, and for that the means simply are not enough. In addition to the Roma and Sinti, the Czech People's Group in Vienna currently seems to me to be particularly necessary in financial terms. She has a last Czech school, the Komenský School in the 3. Wiener Gemeindebezirk, to care for. The school costs a lot of money, it has to be renovated, the maintenance costs a small asset – the funds are simply not enough. The associations, which are to be communicated from the funding of the groups, do not give up much of the amounts in favour of this school to them and for themselves. I appeal to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as a leader in People's Groups, to try to give the Roma and Sinti on the one hand and the Czechs on the other – the Roma and Sinti on the other, because they simply need them to be able to cope with things in a national way, the Czechs, because the Komenský School is slowly falling in front of itself and one should actually save them! In this context, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has also tabled a motion for a resolution which I am now bringing to the fore. It is a question of giving greater consideration to the two groups of people mentioned by me, and the motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is another chapter: We experience again and again and again on all levels and everywhere – even here in the house today – that we remember the fate of the Roma and Sinti, and often the terrible murder of which we remember again and again, as if it were only yesterday, is the reason for us to include this group of people in our reflections. And what are you, what has been promised to their exponents after this attack – at the church level, at the national level, at the federal level – and has happened practically or really nothing, ladies and gentlemen! And then one must be prepared, a bit of what has been promised, and what one has not kept, to pick up and pick up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is our appeal, and the motion for a resolution that I have read aims in this direction. I should like to take this opportunity to take advantage of minority politics and national groups policy – I try to avoid the expression "minorities" as far as possible, because it is something devaluable, as I see things – to look at the cornerstones of freedom policy. Our Freemans make a restless commitment to the strong, genuinely effective promotion of the autochthonic minorities in their native homelands. We therefore see ourselves on the ground of the applicable popular rights and in accordance with the intentions of the Federal Government and, at least in part, of the other opposition parties. We are of the opinion that, in their home regions, the indigenous groups can get everything they need, and what is financially viable in order to become stronger in their positions and to be able to find a corresponding flourishing outcome. At the same time, however, we see two barriers in connection with the People's Group Policy. We are of the opinion that there can be no such measures outside the autonomous territories of the groups – that is, Carinthian Slovenians deserve any funding in Carinthia, but not in Salzburg, for example, if anyone should come to mind – and we also believe that new immigration cannot make up groups of people within the meaning of the People's Group Act, in the political and legal sense of this law, because these new immigration groups lack the vital contribution to the development of Austrian identity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also believe and will not tire to mention that a positive group policy, as we understand it – that is, a clear contribution to the groups, with the firm will to promote it, to secure it, and to ensure the blossoming of these groups in their development – will not be a one-way road for the long term! Very often, we must experience that these positive intentions are far from the Austrian border, borne by all political forces, and beyond the border, they are not just near equal. I can only recall Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia – in Hungary it is not quite that dramatic. That is to say, we will not deviate a centimetre from our positive group policy, because this is our cause, and we confess to carry it out, but we will not tire out insisting that similar rights will also be granted to the groups of the Old Austrian German tongues beyond the border! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore ask, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Republic of Austria, that they strive to set up cross-border national councils, as they may then be called in practice, which, for example - if you look at the Austro-Hungarian border - both the Hungarian people's group on the Austrian side and the group of the Old Austrian German tongues on the Hungarian side to the same extent in order to ensure a semi-adequate situation of both groups. But the medium-term objective will be that we should strive to establish the long-standing but, unfortunately, far-reaching pan-European people's group rights in practice, a people's group right, which should not only stand on patient paper, but also enforceable throughout Europe, and thus be effective accordingly. These are the ideas of the liberals in the ethnic group sector, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15106	The text of the motion for a resolution has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15130	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies' lawyers! Mr Volksanwalt and – last but not least – Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A Member of Parliament who has for years put the end to the flood of law on its flags speaks out, criticises this flood of law, and at the same time informs her that it will agree to the greatest inconsistency of law, which has become necessary in the course of budgetary consolidation. [[Abg. Mother: Who voted in the laws!]] – That seems to be all schizophrenic, but I am responsible for it... [[Abg. Wabl: It doesn't just seem like that!]] It seems! For you alone, Mr Wabl, this does not seem to be just because you cannot look at it, but unfortunately you lack the political intellect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Double strategy: from behind!]] I am responsible for the fact that budgetary consolidation has absolute priority and that it can only be started in this way in the short term. It is certainly to be subordinated to the higher objective that is now less important. With a little coke, I notice that I belong to the absolute minority here in the house: I am neither a lawyer nor a public servant. Both professional groups are "famous" and familiar with the spirit of regulation because of regulatory will. I ask the almost provocative question whether we may have three professors of the Faculty of Law at the head of this House and whether all club members are highly qualified lawyers. Or may there be a reverse link because of this fact that the laws of lawyers and public servants are produced for lawyers and public servants? [[Abg. Wabl: That certainly doesn't matter!]] Mr. Wabl! I don't need minority protection, and above all not of you, believe me! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I can see an early bud of hope that the work of consciousness will finally be successful. In the Government Convention we have the law-making in the non-coalition area. We are here in Parliament on 15 November. In May, a survey will focus on the subject of "the following costs of the laws". I remember Mr Schlögl, the President of the Supreme Courts, who also gave me great hope. And, above all, the advocacy of the First President of this House has truly given me hope. ==References== On August 21, 1993, Fischer made a literal statement on this problem – I quote Mr President: "The criticism of the domestic flood of law, which the Styrian ÖVP member Cordula Frieser has practiced today, is legitimate. It is equally legitimate, however, to note that there is no concrete recipe against it. The plethora of laws does not lead to a lack of employment, be it Jux and Tollery, but finds its reason in the very complicated and complex society and the..." [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Do you agree?]] Unfortunately, you were not there, Mrs Langthaler, I justified it earlier. But you can read it in the Stenographical Protocol, or perhaps you will inform Mr Wabl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let me finish by quoting Dr. Fischer: "...and the strict rule of law." And even more I have his 18th-century explanation. Yes, this year's joy. Fischer literally: "We must avoid the view that many of the laws in particular are a certificate of service of the National Council." – I am really hopeful of this knowledge of the President. Ladies and gentlemen! We really need to act in the next few years. At a World Monetary Congress, experts have found that some 120 billion schillings are "produced" annually at overbureaucratisation costs in our state of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I have not yet heard an effective or constructive proposal from you on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because you don't listen!]] They are noticeable by corn distributions, by draping cattle heads in your seats, by voting by name, Mr. Colleague, and then and when by press conferences. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about assigning debt to each of us, but rather about future solutions, and therefore my most urgent request for us as part of the Supreme Institutions: Let us now take advantage of the economy also at the level of law production and order ourselves an ascetic and high-quality standards! With "qualitative" I don't reduce my demand... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ascetic and high quality! Great!]] That would be the best recipe at all, Mr. Klubobmann! I reduce my demand with "qualitative" not only on the number of pages, but rather I see in them characteristics and important aspects. First of all, there is legalisation at all levels, more understandable legislative texts and clear rules and a review of the laws on their need, on the sense of purpose, on the feasibility and on the burden of costs – and this should be done here in the house by a legislative service. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to expressly say that we cannot abandon the valuable resources of the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate when it comes to lawmaking and the production of legislation. A major concern of the People's Procuratorate is better involvement in the law enforcement process. This could prevent the prevention of possible public authorities problems. Even now, the experts of the People's Procuratorate are reviewing the submissions of federal laws. In the future, this will also be the case for national laws in those seven federal states in which the national lawyers are also national lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen! Not least, the Volksanwälte want a legal anchoring of their ability to make legitimate suggestions as a result of their audit activity. And, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Volksanwälte, we of the ÖVP will be very happy to support your request and wish. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, let me quote Secretary Johann Wolfgang von Goethe – not "by Schüssel" – who meant: If you wanted to study all the laws, you wouldn't have time to break them. – If that were our maximum, we would be without crime today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15274	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15295	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I have been afraid for a long time that the People's Procuratorate must spend this discussion without any speech from the Members and I am now grateful to God that this speech was given, I would like to take this opportunity to also address a few words to the Public Procuratorate. I have a broadcast of the press service of the Public Prosecutor's Office in front of me, by Mr Volksanwalt Schender, and I must say: I was very pleased when I read this press release on Scientology, because I feel that it is very important for the public prosecutors to accept a subject which is not exactly the core of their activity, and because it has happened in a way that I think is good that this is done in such a way that a subject is addressed in the interest of the citizen, where very many people in that country – many of those affected - must have the main feeling that they are neglected by the authorities, by the ministries, by the public, because no one cares about their interests. Mr. Volksanwalt! Even if you are not politically close to me, I must acknowledge that there have been very clear words on the activities of a particular community, which I expressly do not want to refer to here as a religious community, because, as you have correctly noted, it is mainly an economic enterprise. And from your side is also the assessment or attempt to address that in this direction. I would just like to refer to your 1995 report, including the Public Prosecutor’s Office, because in another context you also address the question of Jehovah’s Witnesses or the refusal of service by Jehovah’s Witnesses. I think it is right and important that you do so, that you draw the attention of the legislator or the authorities to the fact that it is being done in a completely different way. It is a highly sensitive issue, which, however, is completely inadequate by the authorities, as I mean, the subject of which is being addressed and which is also completely inadequate for the family – in this case a religious community. But I also think in a different context – and I am still with Jehovah’s Witnesses – that it would be important to address this issue in the matter of military service as well that you look at the question of the activity of religious communities, cults and sects from their own point of view. I have just heard about a case of Jehovah’s Witnesses this week, which is incredible in its dimension and in which no one is obviously prepared – and therefore I would like to present this case very briefly – to speak for those concerned. This is the case of a guest worker who has been in Austria for 24 years and whose two children have joined Jehovah’s Witnesses. As you may know, the religious festivals are not celebrated by Jehovah’s Witnesses as they do with us. The two sons refused to celebrate the Christmas together at home and said: We can and do not want to celebrate. So they went to an emergency dormitory in a large town to be nocturnal. Because the young people were only 17 years old, this municipality then presented a cost requirement of 1 800 S per day. In order to pay these costs for the nights during the Christmas days that the young people have not spent at home because they are stopped by their religious community not to celebrate Christmas at home, there has been a fight for years and days, and it is obvious that no one who is dealing with this question more closely. I would think that this is a small tragedy, but in its dimension and in its importance for those affected. I am glad, Mr Volksanwalt, that in questions of "scientology" and I also hope on the question of other religious communities or sects and cults, which are currently in the house here at present in the political parties and go off the round and try, as would show by example, "Scientology" to make their mood in these days... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They were obviously only with you!]] I know they were with you too! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you have a tick?]] It is being tried to make the mood of the parties in this House. I am therefore very glad that not only Mr Volksanwalt, but the People's Procuratorate as a whole is clearly taking part in this sense, and I hope for further good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15346	Mr Grabner has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15375	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Sports means an important part of life-design. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You haven't worked for a long time!]] They're starting to jump again! If you're here at the speaker's desk, always say: Mr President, please, they are bad! They're not gonna calm down! – But now you are the one who speaks continuously! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a thank you for the fact that sport is given an important place in the Coalition Convention and that sport continues to be part of the Federal Chancellery. This is a certain recognition. Mr Haider said today: The Federal Chancellor is photographed at the various sporting events, and so everyone in Austria knows that the Federal Chancellor is also Minister for Sports. – I can say: If the Minister of Defence is present at an event of the Federal Army, then of course there is also photographed. Only Mr. Haider does not know! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I think the sport has ordered his house well in Austria. It is also reorganised again and again: At the Olympic Committee President Dr. Wallner is now at the head, at which BSO is the Federal Minister other than Dr. Löschnak and Professor Kucera, Secretary General is Dr. Jungwirth, with which sports assistance is now Mag. Schwab at the top, at the IMSB Professor Holdaus and at the football association Secretary General Ludwig, to name just a few. Ladies and gentlemen! The funding for general sports promotion remained virtually the same from 1995 to 1996. For 1997 the funding budget will be increased from 184 million Schilling to 191 million Schilling. In the case of special sports promotions, the former totos, the valorization for 1996 and 1997 is suspended, so that 400 million schillings are available for these two years. Starting in 1998, it will be re-valorized on the basis of 400 million schillings. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a contribution from sport to budget consolidation. What are the focus of sports promotion? – The focus of the sport promotion is on preparing for the Atlanta Olympic Games as part of the Top Sports Committee, with 9.5 million Schilling. For the first time in 1996 and 1997 there are 12 million schillings for the promotion of young people. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of women's sports promotion, I believe that this is very important – 3 million schilling from the 1996 budget. One thing I can say right away is that we should not make ourselves too much expectations for Atlanta. If we get two, three medals, we'll be very happy, as I mean, because it's not winter sports. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: A medal with the shooters!]] I would like to congratulate you today and hope that this will come true. In addition, sport science and sports medical advice will be increased from 5.1 million to 7.5 million schilling for 1996 and 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! A very important point is doping control. At present, there are 1.4 million, 1.9 million for 1996 and 2.1 million for 1997. In the investment sector, the focus is on the Nordic centre of Villach: 3.1 million in 1996, 3 million in 1997. At the Salzburg Stadium, the rates are not exactly negotiated. Three million Schillings were made available for the Kulm ski jumping hill in this year and 60 million for the renovation of the stadium in Graz-Liebenau in 1996 and 60 million in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: What is the Horr Stadium?]] You can see: You don't only have little idea about the state defense, but not about sport at all. That's why it would be better if you were calm! Then you wouldn't notice that you have no idea at all! [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm just asking!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1997 3 million Schilling were provided for the infrastructure for the Nordic Ski Championships Ramsau. I think it is also very important that many major events be held in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't allow any interim questions?]] I am glad that the sports population of Austria does not hear what Members of the Liberals are yelling at such an important point between them and how they are "serious" to take this matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In this context, one can only say: This colleague would be the yellow card in sport, and if he is not quiet soon, also the red card! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will be very important major events in the present and also in the following years in Austria. The World Ski Flight Championship was an advertising for Austria. Thanks to the work of the ex-world champion Neuper, she was well organized, and that an Austrian also won the World Champion's title, was more than we hoped. Currently, the whole world is looking at Austria because the ice hockey world championship is taking place here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Mrs Schmidt! The sports-enthusiastic world is looking at Austria! The European football championship under 16 will be held in Lower Austria and Vienna in a few days. The European Iceman Championship, the Canoe World Championship and the Hot Air European Championship will be held this year to name just a few. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You're doing them right now!]] For 1997 and 1998, the European Olympic Cup Championships, the World Tobogganing Championships, the World Ski Junior Championships and many other... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the mountain bikers?]] I'm still coming! Many other World Championships and European Championships will also be held in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Because the liberals take this matter so "serious", I would like to say: There are over 20,000 sports clubs with hundreds of thousands of officials, and if you pay the volunteer work of these officials who sacrifice their free time with only 100 s, that would be over 30 billion schilling! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For what time?]] So: The "gold" of the sport are the officials in Austria who provide their leisure time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Trainer training in Austria is also very good. I would also like to thank the many senior and secondary trainers who can be trained. – 4.5 million schillings are made available annually for worship sports, and many medals have been brought home by top athletes and by the admirers for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] You can deal with the chapter "Finances" a bit, but not with the problems of sports! You can sell football and put the money in the safe, but you can't deal with serious sports matters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The development of sports medical care in Austria is also very good and has international recognition. From this point of view, I would like to thank the IMSB and Professor Holdaus very much for his work with the ladies and gentlemen of the department. Doping is also an important component... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The current form of organisation of doping controls has proved successful. The Austrian Anti-Doping Committee, as the Commission of the BSO, has seven members: Two, two the countries, two the BSO and one the Austrian Olympic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Also the school sport and the development of the performance centres are no longer to be thought away from Austria. Without the Schigymnasium Schladming and the Schigymnasium Stams, the above benefits could not be provided. But school sports are not part of the Federal Chancellery, but fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last weeks and months we have often been busy with mountain bikes. [[Bravoruf and congratulation of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Very often, we have been criticized if we have called for the law to be loosened in this context. Today, the head of state of Tyrol has made this request. I am going to support him in this regard, and I hope that everyone from ÖVP and SPÖ will also be able to do so. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Guggenberger and Mag. Schweitzer.]] Whether we want to or not: We will deal with this problem and have to solve it in the interests of sport and tourism. The task of good sports policy must therefore also be to create appropriate financial and infrastructure conditions for individual forms of leisure and sport for the population. Ladies and gentlemen! This is guaranteed by the umbrella associations in Austria. If they are often criticized: Without the three umbrella associations, no long-distance sports could be performed in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15583	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15613	Mr President. High Public Prosecutor's Office! Mr. State Secretary! - Dear colleague Grabner! I share your opinion that volunteer officials are really important in sports! [[Abg. Tombner: Say the scheibner!]] I can assure you that I have been since I was 14. I am very proud to have done something for the Austrian youth in various sports as an volunteer official, and I am proud to have done something for the Austrian youth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to address a single position in the 1996/1997 budget in connection with the promotion of sports, namely the renovation of the Salzburg-Lehen casino stadium: This is a significant example of how a project is delayed, if not even prevented, despite agreement in the Federal Government, the Land and the Community, especially because in this case a ping-pong game is played between the League and the Community of Salzburg, which is not targeted. Mr. State Secretary! I have this problem with you on 17 November. It was painted here in April. They have promised me a benevolent treatment of this matter, but at the same time they mean that this is not a formal commitment. The next day, with special interest, I studied an APA message that I had received on the desk, according to which the Social Democratic Head of State Gerhard Buchleitner in Salzburg said after a conversation with you, Mr. State Secretary, that you had given him a mandatory statement. – Mr State Secretary! I should like to thank you very much for responding so quickly to my suggestion and for giving this binding commitment to your party colleague in Salzburg. However, as a result, Mr State Secretary, the financial officer of the city of Salzburg, Mayor Dean, has noted slightly ironically that he is already negotiating with three representatives of the Federal Government in this causa, but still has no written legal commitment regarding the Federal Government's participation in the financing. I therefore ask you, Minister of State: What time horizon can you call us for the delivery of this legally binding written promise of the federal government to co-finance this stadium renovation in Salzburg? Because if this promise is not given, then this ping pong game continues and there is no way of doing the thing. I would therefore like to ask you very urgently, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to forward this written promise to the city of Salzburg without delay, so that the financial officer of the city of Salzburg, Mayor of Dechant, can no longer express himself regarding the lack of commitment to the Federation. Mr State Secretary! Although I know that your heart beats more for green-and-white, I can still ask you not to forget the "violet" in Salzburg. In order to always remind you visually and acoustically that you comply with your commitment and send this written statement, I may hand over to you, Mr. State Secretary, the mascot of Casino Austria Salzburg with the corresponding "bully" CD. [[The speaker shall hand over the Secretary of State to Mag. Lock the mascot and the CD.]] So you will always be reminded that the stadium renovation must finally be started! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15662	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15684	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! What other areas of the subject were not granted seems to be granted to sport: that it is spoken in a beautiful sequence of words. under Title 107: Sports has a budget of at least 821 million in 1996 and of even 828 million Schilling in 1997. So, dear Noldi, we are not far away from a sports billion as far as the league is concerned. In addition, another billion at country level is spent on sport, and the communities with their diverse sports promotion activities are added. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] These large resources for sport are spent mainly on the provision and performance of competitions and courses and on the construction and maintenance of sports facilities. Mr Grabner! You've already listed a lot of them. However, it does not have everyone interested in a single project to present this here in the House and to highlight impressively with the handing over of a mascot to the Secretary of State. Many such important projects are still waiting for their realization. The funds go on performance and top-notch sports as well as in the operation of eleven for sport and for the support of the sport of very important federal sports facilities, such as the Bundessportheimen, as well as in the promotion of various special projects to promote sports through the various sports organisations, starting from the Federal Sport Organisation via the IOC, the roof and professional associations, associations and also the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Sports means, on the one hand, health care, on the other, education, education and integration aid. It is also an identification symbol and is also – please do not neglect and forget – a non-insignificant economic factor: The proportion of sport in total gross domestic product in the EU is estimated at around 1 percent. This must be borne in mind once! The clubs, associations and municipalities have a wide range of sports activities. Above all, they have the expertise in these areas – that is undisputed – and they deserve our special recognition and our special support for what they do with their volunteer officials! Policy cannot allow sport to operate within the meaning of the associations, but policy can shape the framework for sport, and we are called upon to do so: We must create framework conditions, provide coordination and, above all, bring new impulses into the sport. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One who did this very intensively and well-foundedly was our separate State Secretary Gerhard Schäffer. During his term of office, a thorough and fundamental analysis of the situation in sport was carried out, in which it had to be found that there were various areas of problem, whether it be the work of young people or sports science, whether it be the social security of top-ranking athletes or, unfortunately, a certain degree of bureaucracy in the sports organizations. He has managed very well to find solutions to these problems, for example by creating a young trainer Academy, by setting up sports science coordinators, by preparing a women's employment project in top-level sports, which can now be improved by opening up the HSNS for women. May. With the debate on the financial resources, Schäffer has brought an important discussion to the umbrella organisations, as I believe, which should only be used to launch or initiate necessary reorganisation measures; the safeguarding of the school gymnasiums for club sports has been mentioned in this context. I would really like to thank our Secretary of State, Gerhard Schäffer, very much at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to refer to some goals and tasks in sport that lie ahead: I have already mentioned the army sports and mercenary school, which has so far performed very valuable services. [[Abg. Grabner: Legally anchored!]] Right! That's exactly what's coming, dear Noldi! The Army Sports and Near Battle School is to be opened to women first and, second, to find a legal anchorage in the Wehrgesetz. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grabner.]] I think we should work on that. Similarly, we should address the problem of social insurance obligations for amateur athletes and trainers with works contracts, which we unfortunately only partially could solve – Noldi nodds – a final solution. We must also resolve the issue of recreational accidents and insurance in this area. On this occasion, I warn against mixing the whole topic of recreational accidents with the part of the sports accidents. I warn you to make it too easy and just to pick up the sport as a problem-causer. We need to find a solution to the whole problem. There is still much to be said on this issue. Thank God it was also successful – Noldi Grabner has also mentioned this – to ensure the valorization of the special federal sports funding from 1998 onwards. A lot of things have to be done. Unfortunately, Mr Schäffer is no longer available to us. The sport remains in the Federal Chancellery. Mr. State Secretary Schlögl! We talked about it very briefly. I hope we can do this more thoroughly in due course. I and with me many who are active in sports really count very strongly on your support! You, Mr State Secretary, can count on your support, as I believe, for at least a few parliamentarians here in the House who want to support and support you in this task. Let's take it together! I've just said a few things to do before. Let's get things together as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15742	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15764	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Through his contribution, Mr Grabner has brought me to the list of speakers, so that, as he has said, I do not speak only "intellectual" on the subject of sport. I would rather have talked to the Minister of Sports, but he sent his reserveist here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] It's not that easy to talk to a professional about sports in our Republic. Nevertheless, Mr State Secretary: welcome! Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky is, as we have heard or may accept, now a sports minister at the ball, that is the current ball leader, and as a "competenzkickerl" he has mentioned Austrian sport with a few sentences. I would now like to look back and briefly present the value of this most important incident in the world: At the time, he was the Ministry of Education. There was a long passport to the Ministry of Education and Art in 1986. At that time – see – the word "sport" appeared for the first time as an attachment to "education and art". Dr. Moritz was at the ball. But he then gave a brief pass to Mrs. Dr. Hawkiek. He lost his leather to the head of the Federal Ministry of Health and Sport. Then, in order to relativize sport accordingly, one has added to the consumer protection: Mr Ausserwinkler has tried to do this in the short term, but, after a rather unsuccessful drift, has handed the ball over to a state secretariat a good year ago. Col. Schäffer was praised here, actually the first specialist in this matter. The hopes of sports in the colleagues Schäffer were very great, but he stifled with the leather on his additional work, on the team coordination work, which was not surprising. What we have in front of us now is the "Grandmaster" around, which unfortunately, as has been said, is not here today to address this question. So he has now taken control of the evenings of sports, and we have been able to learn this via media. What has not yet been achieved: We have been trying for a year to create a parliamentary subcommittee on sport. He was charged for a year, then he was constituted. The Austrians interested in sports should be told that the Sports Committee has spent two and a half minutes. The Committee has established itself but has never met, has never come to work. In autumn, as we know, the whole thing has been resolved, and a revitalisation of this sports committee is far and wide not to be seen. We will continue to demand this, perhaps at some point we will succeed in creating a specialist forum for this important area, whether we want to see it economically, healthily or as always. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Sport has, as has been said, lost the name of the resort. This gesture, which has always been placed very high from the outside, by the functionaries mentioned here, is now gone. Hand in hand with this is a demoralization of the functionals. It is more difficult than in the past to gain people for this highly praised voluntary activity in the clubs. But what did Grabner teach us today? – He said that doping is part of the sport. We've all experienced that. And what about the doping in Austrian sport? Mr President-in-Office of the Council is among us today and has presented a report on the Court of Auditors which considers sports promotion a little more critical. A new dimension of the doping becomes visible. I'm just quoting a few sentences from this report. "For more than 45 years, the mainly unchanged distribution rules have favoured the umbrella associations in the first place and have been burdened by professional associations." Who's wondering?- Oh, my God! – Of course, this area has been equally divided into red-black and, as Alibi, a third roof band has been allowed to live with. In addition, this report states: "The non-necessary allocation of funding allows associations to create significant reserves from federal resources." - That's a side aspect. – "Double- and multiple-tracks make it difficult to control this promotion. The promotion of rehabilitation and conservation of sports facilities – the theme of the last speaker – "is lacking any legal basis," says the Court of Auditors. Maybe you should know that. "Many funding decisions were not comprehensible. Officials concerned with promotion matters shall have relevant functions of the beneficiaries." This is of course the case in this area: That is, the same people who spend the promotion, they fell in. Those who are willing to do so will, of course, also be assigned to the roof associations, on red or black, as it is just nice. Austrian sport is divided into red and black, believe me! Enter the "House of Sports" where the Red Division 1 is the Red Division 2, the Black Division 3, the Red Division 4, the Black Division 5, the Red Division 6 and so on. [[Abg. Grabner: You have no idea!]] I do not want to make this clear by name, but the officials are not notified by me here, but this classification is written fixed and is also practised. Mr Grabner has put the word "school sport" into the mouth quite flawless, not so much the word "mountain bike". But in the field of school sports, he demanded that he be heard separately from the so-called general sport organized. [[Abg. Grabner: I didn't say that at all!]] Friend Grabner, that's the basic mistake of our entire organization in the country. [[Abg. Grabner: I wasn't inside! I didn't say that at all!]] I believe I have an international view of this problem. This division and separation of school sports and club sports is the cancer damage. They include the good trainers in school lessons. The merger between school gymnastics, between school sports and non-school sport, the so-called club sport – also a problematic name – belongs to. But not to resist me too much in detail: The Federal Sports Institutions were still mentioned as a typical example of the lack of concept in the field of sports organisation in our country. Who remembers: The Federal Sports Homes were only half budgeted in the budget last year. That is to say, the great extradition idea of dissemination and privatisation was indicated by this half-balance-sheeting. The year before should therefore come to the middle of the year for dissemination and privatisation. But then the holes were stopped in the second half of the year. Today, the Bundessportheime are of course again in full length included in the budget, as was the case at that time. But nothing has remained of the idea – I still have the quotations of aliens who spoke of privatisation here. No one speaks of privatization in the Federal Sports Homes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not only a disadvantage, I would like to say – although we liberals have once made a proposal on the promotion of subjects instead of this promotion of property – that this remains in the federal area, but it should be shown here how large-scale projects have been expressed here and how little of it is left. Austrian sport has a long way ahead of itself to realize the health aspect that is primarily involved. Help! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15851	President. — The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15872	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make it very short. Only two comments on the statements made by Mr Grollitsch and Mr Böhacker. Member of the Grollitsch House has issued a "reservist report". I only think of this: Mr Klubobmann Khol has already quoted Latin today. I also allow myself to quote Latin: Si tacuisses, philosopher menisses. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to start by thanking Mr Böhacker very much for the gift. I'm going to revancate myself with a green-white scarf in the next few days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the topic "Stadion Salzburg" I agree with two comments. The first: For the Northern Tribute, the budget already has the corresponding pre-planning: If Parliament, I hope, will finally decide on Friday the 1996 and 1997 budget, we will have provided around 1.5 million schilling for 1996 and 7 million schilling for 1997. [[Abg. Grabner: [O Muhammad] beware!]] In addition, there is a fundamental commitment by Mr Schäffer's Secretary of State for the Southern Tribute. I feel bound to this principle of commitment, and we will meet the corresponding financial conditions in the 1998 and 1999 budgets, as far as I can take part. [[Abg. May. Ederer: Here you go, Böhacker!]] What I would like to say: There are some things that are still open, which are not in the covenant, but in the area of the city of Salzburg. There are problems with the arrivals, authorisation procedures and the like. This has to be clarified. There's a written record. I will try to talk about it in the next few days. Tomorrow, for example, I meet with Mr. Vice-Citizen Damage in this matter, and I intend to invite a round-table talk in May to finally solve the problem of "Stadion Salzburg".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15940	I just have to consider whether there may be something in violet on the government bank; I am very sorry. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Hlavac. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e15970	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Now that the colleagues have talked about sport and the Secretary of State has fulfilled all the wishes of those interested in sports, I would like to return to the women's debate with a few more arguments. It has been addressed by the various problems of women in our society, and I think that the situation has become more difficult than economic development has had a negative impact on women and we have to counter it. I therefore believe that it is important for us to convene as soon as possible a meeting of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, in which all these problems, which have been listed today, will be discussed and we really enter into a debate on the subject. I would just like to make a little more detailed point on one point. The quota system in the Federal Service and the promotion of women has already been addressed today. We know that the European Court of Justice has decided in a disappointing way on this issue. The European Court of Justice has so far interpreted Article 119 of the EU Treaty as very friendly and has also contributed very important to the interpretation of the Directives on equal treatment for women. However, I must say that he has disappointed our expectations. In the Kalanke case against Bremen, he has decided against the rules on equal treatment for women there. There is another procedure which will be initiated soon and in which the Republic of Austria has participated with an opinion. I think we should wait for this procedure and then consider whether it is necessary to adapt and adapt our Federal Equality Act or whether it is possible to keep it in this form as we now have it. There will be a hearing in the European Parliament on Thursday on this Kalanke judgment, in which both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs will try to reach a conclusion that not only allows women to be promoted in all EU countries, but also in the form of rules in many countries, including Austria. I think that this can be very informative for us and that, in the light of these international debates, we should make further considerations. There have been several speeches on the resources for childcare facilities, and I would just like to say that I do not understand that the Minister for Women is accused that only 600 million schilling are now available. I think this is a success. Why is it that we need funding from the Federal Government for childcare facilities? – It has therefore come about because countries and communities have partly failed to meet these obligations, because in some communities, in quite a number of communities, there are childcare facilities only for the morning and because there are also kindergartens where children have to go home for lunch, which is, of course, unbearable for women in work. And there is the idea that the Federal Government should give an incentive to promote such childcare facilities which are actually in line with the interests of working parents. I therefore believe that it is very important and a real success and very valuable that there is this 600 million schilling for childcare projects and that it will be safe to create quality and good childcare facilities for women. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of talk about the problems, and, as I have said, I do not believe that the situation in the labour market in particular has a negative effect on women, that, above all, the return for mothers from a certain age has become very, very difficult, that women aged about 40 or over have problems finding a job at all. However, I would also like to stress that a great deal has been done for women over the last 20 years, that very, very much has gone on, that they have managed to a great extent to remove the old role, and that measures, particularly in the General Civil Code, have succeeded in greatly upgrading the role of women. That was a great success. But we need further success, because if there is no further progress, then there is a step backwards. We need to take further measures to achieve the partnership, in the work of women and in the equal opportunities of women in the workplace and in the family. I am convinced that we will work together to do something for women in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16038	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16059	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is already quite late, I would like to break a lance for our Court of Auditors. I cannot endorse the statements and statements made by my fellow Member from the Court of Auditors' Committee on Anton Leikam. He has here said that the Court of Auditors is the body that is close and in which raw reports of the Court of Auditors would be transmitted. – There is no proof of this at all and in no case at all. On the contrary: There are a number of evidences that Court of Auditors is sending raw reports to the audited bodies. The most recent example is the airport Vienna, where even the number of the copy was visible on television. Secondly, Leikam has spoken of the Court of Auditors' political values here. It is also clear that: If any critical remark is perceived as political appreciation, then criticism ad absurdum is conducted. So Mr Leikam is not supposed to make the same mistake as a pilot who adjusts the altitude knife so that he does not notice the deep flight. This is not the way to support the Court of Auditors in its activities. The Court of Auditors will face major challenges over the next two years: Firstly, the Court of Auditors must be able to make the principle of sparing more clear in all administrative branches. What the Court of Auditors itself sees as the principle of action, that of sparingness, must become more aware of all political action. In times of scarce funds, there is no way in which we can feel that even in this budget week. There is no alternative to saving. However, sparingness is a menu that is usually taken only in the event of forced nutrition. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government would therefore be very well advised if, in the implementation of the two budgets in 1996 and 1997, the Court of Auditors' recommendations had already been adopted. A list of all the proposals already in place and a consistent implementation of all the useful suggestions would be meaningful. This logically follows the need for a structural administrative reform, which Mr Dr. Fiedler spoke about in an interview with the "standard". If everything remains the same, the budget targets cannot be achieved. In the short term, linear cuts will eliminate the lack of money, but they will not be able to improve in the long term and not eliminate the causes of the shortage of money. In my opinion, there is no difference to the private sector. The second challenge facing the Court of Auditors is the accession of Austria to the EU. There are many new procedures, many new flows and many new tasks for control. It is therefore also necessary for the Austrian Court of Auditors to examine in parallel with the EU's control bodies in order to contribute to the synchronization and coordination of controls and procedures between Austria and the EU. The third challenge was presented to the Court of Auditors by the Austrian Parliament: This is the examination of all legal interests. This is a new country which the Court of Auditors must enter, and of course it must first remove certain prejudices in the bodies to be examined. In any case, I would like to make this clear and clear: The Court of Auditors may count on the full support of the Austrian People's Party in dealing with these new tasks. The ladies and gentlemen who work there – and their activity is essential for our Republic – can expect us to actively support them in their responsible work. This is our belief in the way in the service of our Republic, in the service of the entire state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16124	Next I give the floor to the President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16146	Mr President. High house! Mr Leikam has asked me a few questions which I will try to answer shortly. The first question was the pre-publishing of the so-called raw reports – in the legal language of the examination results – on the subject. Mr Leikam asked what measures the Court of Auditors took in connection with its efforts to ensure that the so-called raw reports were not published in advance. I should like to point out once again, and I have done so several times in committee, that the Court of Auditors has developed a safety system that has proved its worth in recent years: On the one hand, the number of pre-releases, which have been particularly striking and which have caused particular abuses, has been significantly reduced, and on the other hand, this safety system has made a significant contribution to the development of a special preventive effect. That is to say, this security system itself has already prevented the risk of making pre-releases at all. Finally, this system has also contributed to the fact that we were able to find out when it came to pre-publishing where it came from. There was a very striking case in recent times, in which it was even very easy for us to locate which specimen was played to the media. We have been able to assign this – I can repeat here – very clearly and, in any case, that is essential to us – to exclude the fact that the Court of Auditors has been the uncomplicated body. What further measures could be taken in this context? I believe that further measures should not be taken by the Court of Auditors, but by the audited bodies themselves. If the audited bodies were to observe the care that the Court of Auditors has had to take for years, then there would certainly be more to gain and then perhaps more pre-releases could be avoided. So much to the previous publications, one of which should be mentioned: No undertaking should make the claim if it was actually pre-published that the reports in question had not already been known to you. The content of the reports is regularly known to the audited body and it can therefore never happen that the audited body could make the claim with Fug that it was surprised by such a pre-publishation. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the Court of Auditors is interested in keeping the number of pre-releases as low as possible. In the past, he has already done a lot in this context; the Court's efforts will continue to focus on it in the future. The second question raised by Mr Leikam was why it was possible that the President of the Council of Town Schools for Vienna, despite the commitment given to him by the Court of Auditors, did not receive a report to the National Council at the same time as the National Council. First of all, I should like to refer to the constitutional situation. According to the Austrian Federal Constitution, the Court of Auditors has submitted its reports, which are ultimately intended to be published, to the National Council and at the same time to the Federal Government. There is no legal obligation of the Court of Auditors to forward its reports to the audited bodies at this stage of the report. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly observed the exercise of giving its reports to the audited bodies, and this must be seen as a welcome of the Court of Auditors, especially as we show that the audited bodies are interested in receiving the reports at the same time as the National Council and the subsequent publication. In the specific case, this was the supplement to the 1994 Activity Report, which was presented to the National Council last December, the report was completed on the same day to the National Council and to the Vienna City School Council. That is to say, the Court of Auditors has complied with this promise, and it has been taken care to ensure that the delivery could take place at the same time. The Court of Auditors did not have any influence over the fact that, in the specific case, the delivery to the National Council went faster than the delivery to the Council of Town Schools. The delay of around 24 hours is not to be charged to the Court of Auditors, but was due to the fact that delivery to the Vienna City School Council took longer. But to that extent I must make the statement – and it is not entirely in line with that of the President of the Vienna City School Council – that the report was known to the President of the Vienna City School Council. It cannot therefore be claimed that he was surprised by the content of the report and could not have commented on it when he was later consulted by journalists. The President of the Vienna City School Council knew this report in the text. The third question by Mr Leikam referred to the claim that the Court of Auditors had made a political assessment in connection with its position on border control. I would like to address this with all my determination. In the course of the review procedure, the Court of Auditors has delivered an opinion on how it does this time and again in connection with the legislative process, in accordance with a resolution of the 1981 National Council, and has expressed its view in the content of this opinion that a more cost-effective solution than the one provided for in the draft law is possible, thus avoiding double-tracks in border control. It has therefore not been a political consideration, but a recommendation which has been made from the point of view of the relevance of the conduct. The fact that this has not been a political and not at all a party political assessment is only evidenced by the fact that the Ministry of Finance has the same position as the Court of Auditors. And no one will seriously want to say that the Ministry of Finance would have taken a political value or a political stance in this context. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Aumayr.]] Rather, both the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors have addressed in the interest of taxpayers the solution that would have been the most cost-effective for taxpayers – nothing else; not a political appreciation, but a recommendation relevant to conduct. The fourth question by Mr Leikam has affected the so-called separation of the Court of Auditors from Parliament, which I should have called for. I would like to clarify very clearly: I have never made such a request. I have never asked the Court of Auditors to get rid of Parliament. That would also be totally reprehensible. It was something else: It was in the course of a lecture that I made certain considerations about the discussion. Moreover, this was not a year ago, but now almost two years ago. It was at a time when various aspects related to the restructuring and reorganisation of the Court of Auditors were being discussed, including – in order to provide a keyword – the collegial management of the Court of Auditors and the like. I have felt quite called and justified to bring something into the discussion from my side. But what was brought in by me was not a solution of the Court of Auditors from Parliament, but a restructuring of cooperation with Parliament, not on the basis of the current institutional relationship, according to which the Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament, but rather other forms of cooperation, partnership forms of cooperation, as was explicitly emphasized by me. It cannot therefore be said that the President of the Court of Auditors would have called for a redundancie from the Court of Auditors by Parliament or even an announcement of cooperation. I have repeatedly stressed that cooperation between the Court of Auditors and Parliament is one of the most important pillars of public financial control. I am all the less moved to announce this cooperation when I have to thank the recent experience of the National Council for having met the Court of Auditors very much on the occasion of the forthcoming discussions on the 1996 and 1997 budgets. I should like to thank all the political groups of the National Council for having been so understanding of the Court of Auditors. I see in this support which the National Council gave to the Court of Auditors in its work that the National Council is aware of the importance of the Court of Auditors and the importance of cooperation with the Court of Auditors. – I can expressly thank you for this!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16246	The next and provisionally last speaker on this budget chapter is colleague Dr. Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16276	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has been very quiet in the last few hours. However, what was said by the Federal Chancellor from the Government Bank in the afternoon cannot be contradicted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! We decided together last week on a budget accompanying law, the Structural Adjustment Act, which we jointly drafted. We stand by it, and it's all about it. We have now presented a budget to which we stand. We noted – and this was a change in the government's basic position on labour market policy – that the Minister of Finance said in his budget speech: "A deficit is not an efficient tool to create employment." – This is a change in previous policies, ladies and gentlemen. We took note of another amendment: The Federal Chancellor, in his statement of government a few weeks ago, said that the guarantee of jobs and the financing of them through the budget would not be an ordinary way. This is also an amendment to what the head of government once said from the government bank. If, however, the Chancellor agrees to take responsibility for the workers of Semperit and Donawitz who have lost their jobs, and if he thinks that we do not care about these people, then we must reject it sharply, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have cooperated in a cooperative way with all the ministries headed by Social Democratic Ministers. So that means: We also bear responsibility for what is happening in the Ministry of Finance, in the Social Affairs and so on. But we do not take note of the accusation and the assumption that our ministers are only successful because they are supported by Socialist Members. – I think that is an unheard-of thing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this form, we will not continue to cooperate. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What does that mean?]] I now speak with the German Chancellor's words – with honesty, with much openness and willingness to seek political solutions, and also to submit them. - That's what we're talking about! This is also what we expect from the Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What about today's double strategy?]] In the future, we ask you not only to express these things, but to do them together with us, to implement them, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16345	No one's been reported in the word anymore. This debate is therefore closed. The vote will take place at the end of the second reading, i.e. on Friday. National Defence Chapter 40: Military matters (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16375	We are now entering into the negotiation of the national defence budget chapter. Mr Scheibner has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16399	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Time is already very advanced, but apparently not far enough. – Ah, now the Minister of Defence is coming on time, I am glad! Mr. Minister of Defence! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't get upset until it's all going! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What's that supposed to mean?]] This is a nervousness at the ÖVP! But I'm right about you. If a proper national defence is worth looking at and looking at this national defence budget, then you really have to get nervous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Dear colleague Puttinger! You didn't correct one today, which was spoken here by the speaker about your "Salzburger Nockerln". Perhaps it would be better for you to deal with it than now to call in to defend the country! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We're coming to you today too! Mr. Minister of Defence! Today we are dealing with the budget for the national defence for the years 1996 and 1997. Normally, the state defense budget goes over the stage without special media response. Interestingly, it was different this time, Mr. Minister! For it seems to be late, but yet the scope of the problems caused by this budget has been recognized. We've seen a lot of newspaper reports on this in the last few days and weeks. Headings: "Alarm in the Lord! No money! Lost devices! He's serving blood customs macimation! Officer critique of armed failures. It night rust and frustration! The Federal Army is unscrupulous. The army is also involved in the debate on savings. Airplanes and tanks rot! The Federal Government sets up Rost!" And in the end there was also the following opinion: "For foreign countries, domestic pui", in which it was criticized that all the purchases we would need for the German army are only available when it comes to international operations. Federal Minister! In the Committee on Budgets, when we announced the rejection of this budget chapter, you said that you were not surprised because it was customary for the opposition to reject a government budget in principle. They would never have experienced the fact that others would have been the case. You then said: The budget is not satisfactory, but sufficient. – It’s right, Minister of State! The liberals will not vote in favour of this 1996/1997 budget, but not because we are in principle rejecting the budgets you are presenting here, quite the contrary. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's sad!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We did not expect this!]] Federal Minister! You know that we have always tried to work constructively with you for the federal army and for the national defence. Today, we would have liked to agree to a budget which would have been at least point-by-point, in which at least there would have been a real increase in the deficits that have accumulated in recent years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is the first time the liberals do not agree with the defense budget!]] Mr Schwarzböck or Schwarzenberger – I always doubt you –! What was the development of these national defence budgets in recent years? – From 1983 to 1986, when you were in opposition and did not accept these budgets as opposition, there was a share of gross domestic product of about 1.3 percent. Nearly 4 percent of the total budget was spent on national defence at the time. Today, 10 years later, it is only more than 0.8 percent of gross domestic product. Federal Minister! They have achieved that Austria has become the "extraclass" of defence expenditure in Europe. After all, we are lonely "tips", seen from below: Austria is the absolute final light behind Luxembourg's national defence expenditure. I can really "gratulate" you for this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look at the comparison, Minister of State: Luxembourg has a 1.20 percent share of gross domestic product, Switzerland 1.7, Belgium 1.8, Denmark 2 percent of gross domestic product, and so on. Federal Minister! There is so much talk about Austria's Europe's maturity in the last few days and weeks. In the state defense or at least in the budget for that, we are at best province! Federal Minister! You also said once that you could find the result with this budget, that you should not be sickly sorry. – Of course, Mr Minister, in times like these it is not possible to correct the deficits of the past from today to tomorrow. But this is not the first savings budget. You have also said last year and two years ago that you cannot enter into a dispute, for example, with the social politicians, or with the agricultural politicians, and say: Even if the others have to save, we want more for the national defence. And that's why, in recent years, these deficits have increased. There is an increase of about 400 million Schilling nominally in this budget chapter – you have highlighted this positively – in 1996 and 1997. However, it is different, Mr President, if you calculate inflation and if you take into account, above all, the additional tasks that are now being done for the German army. The use of Austria in Bosnia alone costs 300 to 400 million Schilling a year. This is why this two-year increase in the budget has already been consumed, so to speak. And if you still put inflation into the calculation, then this over-performing power for cash sales is also "consumed". In reality, then, you have no longer worked out a schilling for the defence of the country, although you know very well that it would be more necessary now than ever to fix the deficits in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Wabl has criticised the fact that tomorrow's "Kurier" already contains something that is being discussed today. Mr Wabl! The establishment of a press service or direct contact with journalists should be unknown to you! – According to "Kurier" of tomorrow, the Federal Minister said: We need new planes and wheel tanks. - Wonderful! We'll give you a hundred percent. The question is: How should this be financed if there is no provision in the budget? Mr Maitz will, I assume, present his proposal here at the speaker's desk again. He admits that increases in the budget are not possible, apparently because the coalition partner does not allow this. Interestingly, everything will be postponed until 1998. In 1998, you will then decide on a special financing programme for procurement operations in the army. Mr Maitz, I now ask you: If you do not manage to achieve at least oriental annual increases, which are not so painful, against the resistance of the federal army and the opposition of the federal army – it has already been discussed today – how do you manage to set up a special financing of over 100 or 120 billion schilling in 1998? You know that's exactly what the funding needs are. But as you then want to finance everything in one, I hope you will explain to us today. We liberals believe that it would be more honest to decide now to increase the national defence budget gradually every year so that we can gradually make these necessary procurements. Federal Minister! In particular, you have made a reduction in the budget when it comes to the expenditure on matters and the resources for re-purchasing. The device with which the German army is supposed to guarantee the security of Austria is – we have discussed this over and over again – that is nothing new – from 25 to 30 years old. Federal Minister! We would need new combat tanks, new shooters, new wheel tanks – you have now purchased great 68 pieces for the UN, 500 would have to be at least, 1,000 once called it – not to talk about helicopters at all! On February, the maintenance and guarantee agreement for the interception hunters with the company Saab expired. At the end of next year, Austria's army will be the only army still in service for these Saab dragons, who have certainly served well in the past. All these things, Mr Federal Minister, we should be discussing them openly here and today, without any delay, but at least now. You know very well that you have our support here. Which Federal Minister can rely on such broad support from the opposition? – I always feel that we Freeman as the largest opposition party Support you more than your own government partner! This should be made clear here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ! I know that in your ranks there are a lot of people who do not agree with some of the opinions, including those of people who have been sitting on the government bank today. The question is: How far will these prevail in the future? Become real people like Minister To one have the saying in the national defence policy of the Social Democrats, people who want to abolish the German army and think that the basic defenses are only disturbing the drunken cadre soldiers in their bankruptcy? Is this the opinion you have in your group on the defence of the country? – I hope not! And I don't think so, either, because I've heard many of you talk about the federal army's events. And there everything sounds completely different! But one should not only make such statements where one believes they like to be heard, but also where it is about resisting people in one's own ranks who want to abolish the federal army. This is also required by your side! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gaál! They have criticised the fact that the device is out of date and that there are problems with procurement procedures in a broadcast to the Minister's address. Mr President, I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you please. Why Is Practiced Just Now Your group's criticism, which in the past has virtually every major procurement process, I do not want to say: criminalized, but at least problematicly? Again and again, you have suspected any subsidising and lubricating history, but in reality only wanted to prevent the procurement operations together with the Minister of Finance, who ultimately refused to provide the money that had already been promised and did not agree with the necessary resources for the army. – Then, too, from your ranks, the question of domestic procurement comes over and over again! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are in favour of, as far as possible, obtaining equipment and goods for the German army in the country. However, we also need to create the legal framework for this. It cannot be the case that, on the one hand, the Ministry of the Court of Auditors is criticized in a procurement process for lack of economic efficiency and economy in domestic purchases, and it is said: What are these criteria? On the other hand, however, requires that the German army buy more expensive, and that is only why an Austrian company comes to the train. I give you the right to offer Austrian companies and, if possible, to come to the train. Only: If the Austrian products are more expensive than others, the question arises: Should this economic promotion necessarily be covered by the national defence budget – or should not other resorts assume this responsibility? Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! An opinion on this would also be interesting once! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: What will people say?]] What's going to be You say? – You will tell you the same thing they said at the Steyr works, for example, when we criticized... [[Other calls of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Mrs. Colleague! Please listen carefully to: When we criticised the fact that 30-year-old Steyr trucks should be overtaken by 700 000 S to 800 000 S, we said: This is uneconomic, because you already get new trucks for the same money or something more. And we have worked to ensure that the wheel tanks are also purchased by the company Steyr. We have been committed to this – and continue to work for it – that the shooters be purchased. These are also products produced by Steyr. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a distraction maneuver!]] Your staff representatives said: The liberals want the destruction of jobs at Steyr's company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Mrs. Colleague! If you are committed to this, you will work together with us to ensure that exactly these procurements are possible, that your group will also make the funds available to us to buy the tanks and wheel tanks that we can buy these trucks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then billions of amounts are going into this economy that you are quoting. But don't pretend to be fighting for Austrian jobs on the one hand, while on the other hand you reject orders that really stand in the house, because they are orders for national defence. And everything about heavy equipment is negatively occupied with you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr Novotny! Time has already progressed, and I therefore have to take a short look at it. There would be a number of things to discuss. For example, it would facilitate a multi-annual procurement and budget plan to organise the planning of acquisitions for the Federal Army in the longer term. I would like to make one more point because it is always about the meaning of the national defence budget. It is asked: What do we need that for? – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, too, has already given consideration to this: What's the national defense for? – There is no threat, all this is far too expensive! Mr Kostelka! Look at the federal army like an insurance! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: But there are also limits to insurance!]] Yes, but she should be sufficiently doped, otherwise there can be no security at all that is hoped for! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We must assure ourselves against the non-exclusive! If you think that there is no threat to whom you are liable if you have been wrong, Mr Novotny? – The risk is too great for us that we all have to pay the token for your error! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You don't have to over-insure!]] Let us finally take national defence seriously! We need a army that can guarantee our security enough – no more, but no less. The Federal Army could also save. Of course, I am right for Mr Gaál, who once said this in an issue. There are bureaucratic procedures that are restricted: We have nine military commanders and three corps. This corresponds, for example, to the administrative hierarchy of Germany, but which has a ten times larger army than Austria. There are brigades with administrative staff who certainly do not correspond to what a brigade needed. – So it would be possible to make a number of internal savings. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, with all the costs that this requires, one should also stress the economic benefits which the German army brings to the general public by means of assistance or by means of assistance in the field of disaster protection. We see it now: The German army will intervene because Mr. Minister One does not have the necessary funds for border protection. The German army is used in all environmental disasters, for disaster protection and assistance. All over, you're very happy to resort to the federal army. But when it comes to the cost, then all of a sudden it's too expensive. Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven! You weren't there today. The Federal Chancellor said something very interesting in another debate today. He meant: The EIA will not be able to organize national defence alone and solve the problems in this area. That is why she needs the help of the Federal Chancellor and the Social Democrats. Federal Minister! I don't know how you see it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Perhaps then Mr. Minister will help you. They have, after all, allowed him to have been Minister of Defense of the Republic for a few days. That's also an interesting thing. Although it is dangerous to the state, it will become the Minister of Defence in your representation. – That’s a bit paradoxical, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are in this House – and I know exactly that – and there is a majority of supporters and supporters of the state defense in the population. We therefore propose: Create You finally put off the force of clubs and the forced coalition on this question! . I believe that national defence is more important than the question of the Promille border for the drivers or the legal status of the homosexuals, for which you have released the votes. Ladies and gentlemen! A proper national defence would be worth discussing openly and honestly here and voting in an open majority on whether we want to have a strong and powerful army with a proper donation in the future, or whether we want to continue suffocating as before and, ultimately, the security of Austria would be at risk in the worst case.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16645	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16666	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, even if midnight has already arrived, to make a few fundamental comments and some observations on the opinions of other political groups on this subject recently. For about a year and a half, I – and you with me – have been experiencing at the federal level an atmosphere, a campaign aimed at devaluing the federal army. What are the causes and objectives of such a mood? One of the causes is the strengthening of a fundamental pacifist attitude among individual politicians, including top politicians, in this country. Secondly, It appears that the prevention or at least the delay in full Western European integration of Austria is to take place on this path. Thirdly, The value of constant neutrality is still being surpassed, although it is well known that it has actually lost value. Fourthly, the weakening of the Austrian state defense until we do – but this should never happen! – for Western-oriented security systems de facto no longer can be a reliable and acceptable partner. Or is it the erroneous hope that wars in Europe or beyond will no longer be feasible since 1989? – Yugoslavia was a cruel and tragic counterpart to this thesis! Ladies and gentlemen! 39 wars and 24 armed conflicts are recorded in the world in these days in the "Yearbook Peace", which is gratefully published every year in Germany. – No one should believe that the fight with force of arms is no longer possible! In Europe too, there are three armed conflicts that are still continuing. How do we try to achieve this mood in the country, that there are no longer military forms of threat and that form of military defence has lost its value? – One argues with a comprehensive or extended security concept and at the same time promotes that military forms of the threat are no longer present. What, ladies and gentlemen, will be overlooked? – Capabilities Would you please talk more quietly to the liberals? You're disturbing the speaker very much! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: This is on the speaker and not on the listeners!]] I almost expected this evil objection! What is consciously overlooked in the above argument? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] – I just asked for a reduction in volume. [[Interlocutory calls and calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] There were, Mr Stadler, at different times of our Republic certain parties who, through constant calls, tried to disturb speakers who did not use their cause! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: The basic condition is that your club is awake!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What do you want? Keep talking!]] Mr. Stadler! Do you talk or do I talk now?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16739	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The microphone is loud enough when you listen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16755	So what has been deliberately overlooked in this situation? – One assumes that there are no longer any conflicts in this school of thought, that the new, non-military threats, such as overpopulation and migration, environmental destruction and destruction of habitats, or the food problems and economic crises in less developed countries, are, therefore, these and other phenomena, which threaten people, the peoples, the nations, are only causes of conflict. Consciously it is overlooked that these causes of conflict can develop, with mutual reinforcement, but very likely to lead to violent solutions using military force. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to be afraid of what I want, but it is that politically responsible individuals of our Republic maintain a realistic view of the European and non-European environment and draw the right conclusions from it. We need an adequate, mobile and technically well-equipped military defence for Austria and our population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we are dealing with this military budget, and that is why we will continue in the two years 1996 and 1997 when, for example, we will have to decide on the follow-up to the oversonic aircraft of Draken. The Cold War is out, a state of stable peace, Mr. Wabl, has not yet been reached in Europe – that is the truth and nothing else! Austria, which is so important to Europe in terms of security policy, must not become a risk factor. That's our responsibility. That is why the military budget, at least in nominal terms, has been increased, and this increase compared to the overall budget, is a well-respected success in the negotiations of the Minister of Defence. The fact that we cannot carry out major procurement operations with such "normal budgets" – as Mr Scheibner has also said here – is obvious. For this to happen, and I have repeatedly repeated that, and I repeat today, for example, for the successor patterns of the Drakes from 1998 onwards, a ten-year special investment programme will have to be launched, with or without entry into the Western European Union, because special objectives will also require special measures. On the individual contributions to the debate, such as Mr Herbert Scheibner or Mr Anton Gaál For the area coalition for military national defence of Mr Scheibner or also for the criticism of colleague Gaál of outdated weapons and devices – both are subject to an answer, a very simple answer: All Members of Parliament are invited – all Members, including Mr Meischberger – to agree to the feasible budget and thus to make the budget for the military matters your business. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There needs more money!]] As a responsibility for other major, important investment projects for the external security of this country, we should show commonness with the population in this area – I would like to give Mr Scheibner the right way. We would therefore be more likely to reach the agreement of large groups of people in favour of the need for further major investments. It is only right for the colleague Ofner to give the horror scenario of a military national defense as a "next job" of police and Gendarmerie and also the inclusion of the army intelligence service by the state police as unbearable. I'll give you the right. If this would ever be a reality, namely national defence as a "next job" of police and gendarmerie and the inclusion of the army intelligence service by the state police, then I would be the first to finish its political activity and not represent this country as much as I do now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't give up!]] [[Abg. Wabl: No threat!]] This is a logical consequence to be drawn from such a situation. Because one thing is quite certain: These two points are certainly no longer a matter of negotiation for the ÖVP and no more discussion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cut back on what I wanted to say that evening, and I reduce it to very few sentences. It is my firm conviction that the Federal Government also has a comprehensive education mission, a comprehensive education mission with three objectives: to provide technical training to carry out the actual military task of contributing to the creation of personality for everyone working in the army and to convey a third quality, namely organisational skills in practice and practice. [[Abg. Wabl: (showing short a picture calendar with a scarcely dressed woman with military accessoirs such as steel helmet and cartridge belt) This also belongs to this? I'll show you the military calendar here!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is that?]] [[Abg. Wabl: The Military Calendar 1996!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! You should look at that again! For the camera!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What other institution do young Austrians provide for the exercise of service to the Community? What other institution do young Austrians – and in future, as I hope, also young Austrians who volunteer to report – offer the placement of values and attitudes for the state? Which institution offers... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go, show it again! That's interesting!]] For Mr Stadler, perhaps, but not for the great majority of colleagues gathered here. – Which institution else offers the classification into a group to perform tasks they do not find in normal working life? Ladies and gentlemen! Management behaviour and management methods – no, it's still time, I know –, leadership and management methods are for more efficient qualities, which are also highly appreciated in business and administration. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: concentration on the clock!]] I just mention three examples from my federal state: The Executive Director of one of the largest Austrian insurance companies, the district head of Knittelfeld, the economic director of the largest Styrian hospital, are professional officers who do great and successful work in the other areas. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go, Wabl, show this again! That's what Mr. Klubobmann Khol does! This is pornography!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A naked woman is not yet pornography!]] The National Defence Academy with its institutions is an internationally recognized institution. For example, the "Austrian Military Journal" has subscribers in all five continents. We should be proud of these educational institutions and support them in their work. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Army is the largest peace movement in Austria. The Federal Army is a particularly responsible, human and professionally strong, multi-useable preventive peace movement from professional and military soldiers, and – I hope so – also from volunteer soldiers in the future. Military national defence is never self-evident, but always means for the purpose, and the goal is to ensure the security of the population today and in the future. – Even if it is already after midnight: That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e16969	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Freshener. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17012	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Maitz meant, the Federal Government... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the Moser?]] As you see, not there! I'm at the pult. Am I too little for you? [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, you were still working in Parliament!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're not in retirement!]] That's right! [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you look a little tired too!]] Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Mr Maitz said that the German army also had an educational task. I think he has also meant security policy, and it would certainly be tempting to deal with specific federal authorities at first, but I believe that the essential point in this debate should be to point out the security-political dilemma that this federal government is producing day by day. I mean, of course, one could use the plea of the too low budgetary security of the army as an entry, and there would also be some good argument for this – I will go into it – but the main accusation that this federal government and also you, Federal Minister... [[President Dr. Fischer: (for Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven, who spoke with Abg. Dr. Haselsteiner is located) Mr. Federal Minister!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Is the hazelsteiner demented now?]] The Federal Minister, the main accusation to be made by the Federal Government and thus also to you, is the security vacuum for which this Federal Government stands. It is true that the day after day of the media – also in the "Kurier" of tomorrow, which reports on the debate that is currently taking place since the afternoon – is becoming very clear that this federal government is not representing a common security policy for the two government parties. This is a fact which can be very well identified by means of contributions to the debate, and I do not mean just the dilemma under which defence policy must suffer, that this federal government is not in a position to develop a common security policy with a view to the European perspective. In fact, we have two: the one on the part of the Austrian People's Party, which points towards European integration of security policy and, on the other hand, the Social Democrats, who believe neutrality for all eternity and who consider a common European security policy not necessary, at least for no perspective. This, Mr Federal Minister, is the essential criticism that must be noted, because it is also the basis for further security policy concepts and, finally, for the organization of military defence. It is strange to follow the discussion. For example, I have to address the contribution made by the Federal Minister at his time, who actually meant that the military border security, the military security would be transferred at the end of a "better" border army, leaving it completely disregarded that this, of course, no longer corresponds to the constitutional mandate. Another example is Klubobmann Kostelka's proposed merger of army news service and Stapo. In the same way, the building police could be put together with the murder commission, because so much do these two institutions – the news office and the state police – have to do with each other. What bothers me about this discussion is not that such a thing happens: It only shows the absolute insanity or, in any case, uniosity with which these things are dealt. And this is a finding that the Federal Government is responsible for, of course, and with it, Mr Federal Minister, you too. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] First of all, it would be necessary for Austria to restore clarity in the concept of security policy. Austria has developed the very reasonable safety policy concept of neutrality for many decades because of the situation in which our country has just found itself between the two military blocks. On the basis of this concept, a very specific military system, a defence doctrine with space defense, militia and all these things that had their logic, was developed, only we must be aware of the fact that this concept has been passé since 1989/90, and thus I, Mr Federal Minister, also mean the "Religion New", with the end of the day, a very arbitrary MOB size of the army has been established, without the future European prospects being properly supported. Now, of course, the budgetary situation is coming, Mr Federal Minister, and you will know very well – I do not need to do so now – that this "Religion New", which was put up with 120,000 men, of course, was never really taken seriously by the government by the budgetary. This is a fact, and I am now saving myself – and as Mr Scheibner has said, I could make a long list of shortcomings, a long list of investments that would be necessary to achieve this objective – to mention that. [[Abg. Wabl: Please, we would like to know! That's the question!]] I believe that this is in the final effect of the proof that the "Government integration" as such is not feasible, and that it also raises the question of how it goes on as a whole. The main question, of course, is whether this Republic acknowledges the need for military security capabilities: yes or no? – This principle debate is, in most cases, presented as follows: In fact, she's not, because we know: At the moment when it is about putting on the table the corresponding political and budgetary burden on military security, the approval in this House and I would assume that it is also very rapid in the population. That's a fact. This, of course, also limits the possibilities, and that is why I wonder whether this pure demand for more money is actually the solution. In our view, the procedure should be as follows, Minister of State: First of all, you should fill this safety-political vacuum with a clear commitment with the Foreign Minister – the Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government, of course – which is primarily responsible. That is, after Austria has joined the European Union and the concept of permanent neutrality does not open up a security perspective – on the contrary! – the integration of military defence should be clearly addressed as the political objective of this Republic. It is the basis of any reasonable security policy to assume that the European Union is necessarily a security community and that this security community is not only in the interests of the continent but also in the interests of Austria. And once this ground is laid, the next step can be taken with the European Union in an at least medium-term perspective which Austria has to take in the burden distribution, in this unpleasant and often pressing burden of military security. I believe that the continent of Europe is still an overarmed one, that there is too high a military density, but one must be clear to us at least: The illusion that Mr Kostelka once had that, when Hungary or Slovakia are members of NATO, we are going through the "wind shadow" so to speak, because then the continent forgets that there is also an Austria, is not to be maintained. To think that there would be a way to remain in the "wind shadows" of the other security-political conditions, then you will forget about us and our contribution – that is illusion. It has also been clearly stated: Austria will have to make a share, either through its own military efforts, or you will simply have to pay very clearly. And since, I think, Austria has already failed to make its own military contribution. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what we want, colleague.]] This contribution, ladies and gentlemen, will go far away from what the current foundations in the Constitution, in the National Defence Plan, in the National Defense Doctrine and also in the "Religion New". All these foundations have lost their validity. I think we will have to focus on building up modest but modern substance in core areas. We will need mechanized core areas. The debate in Austria will be to be held whether or not we provide for our own airspace control and safety. This question is urgent. I am not convinced that, as Mr Kostelka has just said, it could be assumed that perhaps the others are doing this for us. I don't think it's possible to do that in military terms. But this principle debate is to be held, because it will not be that we are going to say on the one hand that we need military security, we have to make our contribution, but on the other hand, if the consequences are to be met, we are avoiding discussion and decision-making. This principle debate is to be held soon, and I know how to sing a song of what it means to make decisions, especially on the issue of airspace security. The principle debate must be held first, and then the further steps must be taken, but first of all it is really about making a common bow, whether we want it or not! That is an essential condition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to remind you once again and consider it to be the greatest lack that this Federal Government has no common security policy line. The daily dispute in the newspapers and obviously also between the leading representatives of this government is a reality. And what is stated in the government statement, Mr. Federal Minister, is quite ridiculous, it is blurry and unclear. [[Abg. Wabl: Well, that's an insult!]] I could do that in detail now. If, for example, we are actually talking about modernizing the equipment and you know precisely that these budgetary parameters which you find are not to be financed. That's why it's a pure empty formula. [[Abg. Wabl: We need a goal! What is the goal of the Liberal Forum? That would interest me!]] If it is said that the principle planning in the field of operation must also be presented for procurement, then I again ask: What is the basis for security policy, because of which this is done if the Federal Government does not have this concept? – And if, for example, the further development of the barracks, camp and troop practice concept is the case, I ask: On the basis of what army size will this be discussed? – And I shudder at the fact that it is obvious that modern new barracks are empty, while in other areas people still have to house in miserable quarters. All of this is without actual basic security policy concept, so everything else is very, very dirty and therefore great is also uncertainty about the budget equipment of the army. That's why: First of all, this basic concept must be drawn up which, in cooperation with the European Union, in particular with the Western European Union, must contribute to a European security concept. Then the corresponding army organization must be carried out and discussed as the last question which military system one wants: Profession or continuation of military service? We believe that once there is a common European security concept, the obligation to do so can be suspended. But again: The condition, Mr. Federal Minister, is the concept of security policy. You've remained guilty to the Republic. This is the main difficulty, and this is also responsible for the great difficulties that the German army has in the context of overall political development.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17202	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17224	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Maitz was very eager to speak the word here to the expanded security concept, but I think that the conspiracy theory he has outlined here was certainly not an answer to the comprehensive security concept. Federal Minister! In the Convention of Labour, which the Federal Government has undertaken for this legislative period, expressis has been laid down until the submission of a military principle planning in the fields of operation, training and procurement. We have repeatedly called for this principle planning because we simply see it as an important element, the most important basis for the preparation of the national defence budget. There is no doubt that the 1996 and 1997 estimates are included in the savings framework of the government programme, with, of course, the idea of saving, but not in the sense of cutback savings, but rather – I believe that this is the right thing to do – of intelligent saving, and that means setting a proper priority. This will certainly allow for an investment framework for the modernisation of equipment and also the armaments of the Federal Army. These armaments, Mr. Federal Minister – I have repeatedly said this here – must be transparent and comprehensible. We are happy to continue to work with you for a common efficient and credible defence of the state, and to take on joint responsibility, but co-responsibility, Mr Federal Minister, also means participating in co-decision and cooperation. In this context, I must therefore again call for a military investment programme from you. They cannot always rely on us being told in "trend" or in other journals throughout Austria, because it is ultimately about millions and often also billions; not to be forgotten, the follow-up costs are also. I can become a little more concrete: In media reports last week, a dramatic call for help was read from the ranks of the Federal Army's mechanized troops, and this call for help – already mentioned here today – culminated in the headlines: "Bundesheer turns on Rost", "Bundesheer is at the end", "Aircrafts and tanks rot". Federal Minister! In my opinion, these reports about the dissoluting state of the German army, especially what the mechanized associations are about, are simply a capitulation declaration of the army management. And for that, Minister of State, you alone bear the responsibility! [[Abg. May. Stadler: You alone, Federal Minister, have the responsibility!]] At the time, you have reported on the technical standard of the battle tanks M 60 in the National Defence Committee, and I am entitled to quote on this occasion from this written document, in which it reads: "The medium-sized combat tank M 60 has been introduced in the German army in the mid-1960s and conforms to today's technical standard in version A 3", i.e. the standard of 1993. And it also says here: "In many armies, it is currently in use, for example in Italy, Turkey, Spain, Portugal, Greece and the National Guard of the American Armed Forces." You have also reported, Mr Federal Minister, that this battle tank will continue to remain as an essential element of the German army's military force for the foreseeable future. Then you have found that this battle tank should be added to two to three basic revisions. As you know, Minister of State, these overruns take place every nine years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Pedals are installed there so you can drive!]] This means, therefore, that this tank, if we only assume that these two basic resurgences are carried out, remains in the stock of the Austrian federal army until 2010. But now in tomorrow's "Kurier" you explain that this is no longer the case. Federal Minister! I would ask you to clarify this, because there is only one conclusion for me: Either you have passed on the wrong information to the National Defence Committee or your statements in the "Kurier" are not correct. That is why I ask you to be informed about this. Allow once again a hint of the tanks and planes that rust and rot. This is not the case because they are technically outdated, Mr Federal Minister, but because they are simply bad or not expected at all. This, Mr Federal Minister, is incomprehensible to me, because the German army has not exploited the budget framework for maintenance. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A weak excuse!]] I can remind you: In 1995, the Federal Army spent only 422 million schillings in the maintenance budget. Dr. Maitz, when you calculate, you have given up 324 million schillings and in 1994 200 million schillings have been abandoned. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Axle.]] They simply did not take advantage of this budget framework, which was set out for this purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: A weak excuse for your lack of commitment!]] No, that's to be read in the budget documents. That is why it is incomprehensible to me. If you are serious about the circumstances in question, Dr. Maitz, you can conclude that this is a mismanagement of the Austrian Federal Government, and for this the Minister has the full responsibility to bear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We demand full information about this. What we need, Minister of State, is an immediate programme to change this unsustainable situation. For years, the Federal Government's strategic planning has been neglected. Therefore, appropriate training and optimum use of the equipment are not possible. Since the Federal Government reform debate in 1990, we have been making our demands, and I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to look at our proposals and consider whether it would be useful to go the right way with each other. We want to develop a control system for the economic leadership of the federal army. That was one of our demands over and over again. The aim is also to identify the battle value for all arms systems and troops and to analyse the cost-benefits for the entire federal army. So far, Mr Federal Minister, nothing has happened, and now you are reaping the "fruits"! They bear full responsibility! I would therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that we need a clear political consensus, just as he did in the 1980s when it came to drawing up the national defence plan, and consequently there was also a joint decision-making. I believe that only in this way will it be possible to further develop the "Religion New" towards a higher level of availability. The equipment and armament of the federal army with the existing budget resources is very likely if we use them wisely, modernize them and also guarantee up-to-date training. That is why I believe, Minister of State, that we should go this way together. The international tasks are very clearly regulated for Austria: Peacekeeping, humanitarian measures, international disaster aid. I consider participation in the NATO "Partnership for Peace" to be a useful instrument of security cooperation. But one thing needs to be said clearly and clearly to those who constantly insist on membership of Austria in a military alliance: Joint missions with NATO must be under the mandate of the United Nations or the OSCE. In our opinion, participation in the NATO "Partnership for Peace" must not be a free letter for a sluggish NATO membership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore think it is particularly important that the individual work programme between NATO and Austria, in particular with regard to its implementation, determines a very careful handling of the preparatory measures and joint exercises with this partnership. Also to the exercises a clear word, ladies and gentlemen: For us, this government agreement is binding and there is nothing to shake at all, and we stand by it. This also shows our participation in the PRP exercises. However, we agree only with the maintenance of voluntaryity. Voluntaryness must continue to be given, according to the performance of the present service. That means: No basic defense servants may participate in operations or exercises abroad. That is what we are still holding fast to. Federal Minister! Now, measures must be taken to increase the efficiency of the federal army. This requires, of course, a consistent continuation of the administrative reform throughout the Federal Government. It is very likely that planning sites will also have to be dismantled. This must be accompanied by a streamlining of the management structure. We demand that again and again, but there has not been a single step in this direction to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's total nonsense!]] Federal Minister! They have not accepted, as always, any suggestions on our part. I should just like to point out: There are operational facilities to which more than 4 500 systematic planning posts are linked. While the administration is fully occupied, however, there is a minus of almost 50 percent in the force. And this is at the expense of training. But they have not yet been willing to make changes, Mr. Federal Minister! I believe that the central issue of the next few years in the context of the further development of the "Relaxation New" which has already been referred to today is very likely to be the modernisation of training facilities. There must be an improvement in equipment, with man equipment in the foreground. And not to be forgotten is also the creation of acceptable accommodation for those who are willing to serve within the federal army. Federal Minister! In addition to the principle planning for operations, training and procurement, which has already been mentioned today, the long-standing barracks, storage and military practice concept must also be presented. Together with the report you promised for the first half of 1996, we want to discuss these conceptual considerations in a comprehensive way about the state of the German army and the implementation of the "Religion New". In doing so, Mr Federal Minister, credibility and efficiency must also be a priority. I believe that we will only be able to go this path in a meaningful way in the interests of the security of Austria if we want to be successful. We have already proved our support and our active fellow feeling and continue to admit it. Federal Minister! Let's go this way together! Listen also to our suggestions, our proposals and our conceptual considerations in the interest of the people of this country and in the interest of the Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17336	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17366	The original can then be viewed in the back against a small donation for the army budget. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven: I don't know him yet! Now I'm finally seeing him!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Col. Frischenschlager is an expert on matter, he had at least three years of opportunity to design the Ministry of Defence. Who of the opposition already has this rich treasure of experience? – Freshenschlager laid the foundation for the green opposition at the time, for the great visions that the Greens had. We've come up with this a little different, I admit it. The vision of our Greens in connection with the defense was something different from what is happening now. We have thought that we must gradually turn the many forces that exist in our society – such as: social defence, democratic stability as a backbone, development aid, cooperation, integration, understanding measures and, and, on the other hand, slowly into another formation, the militaryly violent part of the defense. That was a vision that was very long-term. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Have you ever heard of "constitutional order"?]] Mr Maitz! But the fact that you are already working hard at the coalition to demolish the federal army and involuntarily realize this vision surprises me a little, especially since the conflict is insurmountable: Minister Fassleven said about his nice colleague, Minister of the Interior One: dangerous to the state. You have explained again today what is necessary, and Mr Gaál has again contradicted you. – You in the coalition do not agree at all on what is to happen in this federal army. When you talk to experts about the federal army, you will hear quite similar comments. I talk relatively rarely about the federal army and the internal division, because I know little about it and am not an expert. But one of the spats is already whistling from the roofs: The federal army was demolded by you together. First, there is a spirit that can only be described as unspiritual. Young people don't want to go there anymore. Then you tried to step up civil service as a criminal service so that more young people could go to the military. You tried everything. The young people, however, prefer to do a service that makes sense in which they can go upright and not be stepped and feel they are doing something meaningful for this state, for this democracy, for this country. [[Calls of the Abg. Zweytick and Scheibner.]] You have tightened civil service, you have extended it, you have tried everything to discredit it. That was your wonderful "deed"! They have then also tried to lure people into their calendars – I don't know if that was an excuse for attracting the opposite sex. I can't judge what you thought about it. In any case, they have done everything they can to make the federal army unattractive. Mr Maitz! That's objective! This is not an evil criticism from a green man. I could only watch that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Mr Maitz. You have not only done everything within the federal army to desmilitate the federal army, this accusation concerns above all your party! Unfortunately, Mr Kiss is not here! Mr Kraft had to step back! With a number of scandalous weapons, they have made sure that everything is discredited around the federal army. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Where did you serve?]] Mr Wurmitzer! I served at the Red Cross, imagine! I was there once at a birth, several times in heart attacks and in serious traffic accidents. I learned there to intervene in an emergency. I'm not trained in the weapons you're probably constantly pushing. But Mr. Wurmitzer...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17433	Mr Wabl! Please clarify what you said!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17448	I meant [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Some in the ÖVP are sometimes trying to do business in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Who?]] There's a man, that's power. "Power" of his office he acted, and as a defense spokesman he was sentenced, for the attempt of bribery. Is that right? Yeah? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's why he wasn't sentenced!]] Isn't that why he was sentenced? – There are countless reports about this! Do you want me to read it to you? Should I read about the "arm millions" and how SPÖ and ÖVP want to share the money. "Politics Summit Weapons Trade and Fassleven's Responsibility" is here. The bribery tests are now punishable, according to the judgment against force. Other quote: "Minister Fassleven was informed about the corruption attempt and nevertheless insisted on Thomson." What's that supposed to mean? Lack of cooperation? Lacina has resisted the purchase of these weapons systems, and has meant that there is nothing wrong with them. Ladies and gentlemen! What the hell happened? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That was all right!]] Of course! And what about the balance sheets that have suddenly disappeared in your sub-organization, which would have allowed you to prove that commissions have been flown into your cash registers? – Suddenly they were inconceivable! Computers have crashed! Everything was gone! Faith You, do the pressmen think it's all wrong, Mr. Maitz? You think that's all invented? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You're going to have rumors already!]] Of course, because I have such a good access to people like Assman! That's where you worked hard. Ladies and gentlemen! They have not only - I repeat - in the German army themselves made sure that this instrument is discredited, but They have also made sure that this is the case in the area. Ladies and gentlemen! "Tarns and Falses" was one of the last big articles on it. – They refused to set up an investigation committee at the time – successfully. The SPÖ was already inclined to agree and of course put you under pressure. But you have successfully won! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Because nothing was to be investigated!]] Mr Maitz! Of course there was nothing to investigate! It's never something to investigate when it comes to you! The last item is now coming, Mr Maitz. ==References====External links== Now comes the big game: Where and what will we buy in the future? – I heard: The Minister is still thinking of these helicopters; You know this embarrassing business. We have heard that the successor catchers are also to be bought. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You're against it, we know that!]] Deputies of freshener come out here, boldly explains as an expert on matter: Minister! Empty You're finally making the list, so we know how we're doing. – I would have asked him to tell us where the money was to come from. There is a lack of courage on the part of Mr Freshenschlager. Mr Scheibner, too, suddenly leaves the courage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Where to Take From You got the money here, Mr. Scheibner? Do you want to bring it back to the family allowances, to the unemployed, to the officials, and to what officials? [[Abg. Scheibner: By the promotions!]] Or in the promotions, with the farmers! You've wanted to delete that before! Tell me where the money is to come from! After your release from today, Mr. Scheibner wants only "abominable" 10 billion more schilling! He's a "moderate" guy. 10 billion! Where are you from, Mr Scheibner? [[Abg. Scheibner: Within four years!]] Then there's an increase. There are people here in the house like Mrs. Klubobmann Heide Schmidt – Klubobfrau, apologise for this fauxpas! – she is ashamed of herself because she knows what the NATO accession will cost again. No one says where the money is to come from. Suddenly, you stand there quite chastised like the little boys who have been caught with illustrious thoughts, ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What does that have to do with me?]] Tell me, Minister Fassleven, where you're going to get the money! Tell me who you want to take it away from! Or want Are you taking loans? Do you want to go collect as always collected for the disabled, the elderly and the sick? - No, you don't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Tell me! Mr Wurmitzer! Sage It's your carinthia and your carinthia where you want to take the money! Mr Maitz! Do you think that Mr Assmann has so much to offer? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Do you believe that you can afford all that is contained in this magnificent catalogue of wishes? In the South Styria, you will probably collect higher taxes from the wine growers in order to be able to buy ground-floor and ground-air control weapons in order to purchase wheel tanks and replace the M60. They have reached the end of their life cycle, says the Federal Minister for Defence very boldly. Now we need new ones! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] But where do we take the money, Mr. Zweytick? You should sit down with the Minister and, finally, make a grumble about what wine farmers in the South Styria should be able to take away the promotions, Mr Zweytick! Or, Mr. Zweytick, do you have another source of money? [[Abg. Zweytick: I have one, but I will not betray it to you!]] Do you have a new one? – Please, tell me, come out, because Maitz didn't think of anything! Nothing happened to the freshman! The Moser, I think, has been sent abroad today to gather, otherwise he would have to explain here how he can buy the successors. I think there is a veritable conflict within the Liberal Forum, because Mrs Dr Schmidt is, I believe, a zero budget. She's a little one-vision follower. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: We will cash for this cabaret entry!]] Mr Maitz! I just have a very common request: If you make demands here, you have the courage and say what financial resources you want to grab! Don't always be ashamed of this here at the speaker's desk or in your place! That's sad! It's a game of mourning! You know what? Courage or courage? – If you said clearly: That's what we want, and that's what we want, and that's how we'll cover it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] It is even in the law that we need cover proposals for this. A government party, Mr Kukacka, who wants to buy things and has no proposals for cover for them has resigned. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's a lubrication piece that you two pull off here!]] Mr. Kukacka! I could be hurt right now and say, Tun It's just so on! With this, we are all moving a great deal closer to the vision of an end of the federal army. Another thing: Then came the self-proclaimed defenders of the groundmen, saying: They should have good training and should also be paid decently. But then it is decided in this House, silently, that 52.5 million schilling should be saved in the second half of 1996. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This does not matter to the disciplinary, not to the public, that in the seventh and eighth months, the basic defence servants will lose 7 000 s and only have more than 3 000 s. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all!]] He doesn't care! – But there are many people who depend on this money! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] That's not true? – Where to take from You're this 52.5 million schilling? [[Abg. Scheibner: You voted against the increase in the daytime money, Mr Cot.]] Mr Scheibner! Answer my humble question! Perhaps Mr Maitz joins us, he was for that too! Perhaps the colleagues from the Social Democracy are also joining us. Where are you taking this 52.5 million schilling? – They take you from those basic defense servants who always defend you here with all vehemence and all eloquence. They make themselves strong for them and say: We need an appropriate army and we need soldiers who are properly paid and rewarded! - You're fighting for it here. You feel like you want to plant your bayonet right here and march for the groundmen! But then you make such a poor law with the They take away those people who get 10,000 S, 11,000 S, or 12,000 S, 7 000 S, or 8,000 S. You will do this under the title: We need a strong army! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Same performance, same money! That's a just solution!]] Mr Maitz! I don't know how you're going to explain this to the groundmen who're going to do the seventh and eighth months of the federal army! I do not know how you will do that, that you will take away at least 7 000 s! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where does a groundguard get 7 000 S or 8,000 S in the seventh or eighth month?]] Mr Maitz! Mr Scheibner! You have been silent about this in the last discussion in the structural adjustment laws, and you have been silent today, because you do not want to tell people the truth. That's your problem! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They mix the time-consuming soldiers with the groundguard!]] If you were to tell people the truth – Mr. Frischenschlager is fortunately there! – then they could orient themselves in their election decisions. Then they knew: Aha, the Liberals are in favour of the army being disassembled, but at the same time they think they should also buy the new interception hunters. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Freshenschlager! I am already looking forward to the future discussions with the young soldiers in which we can discuss this. I hope, Mr Fischenschlager, that you will continue to be the executive clubman of the Liberal Forum.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17765	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17786	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Lord Officers! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What Kabarettist Wabl has shown is nothing new. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] I have feared that he will again make a mockery of the German army in its very capable way of putting everything into a ridiculous state. We are used to the fact that the Greens, the Left, are against the Federal Army, regardless of the fact that they have made a vow to the Constitution. – But they don’t care! Wabl also disputes that the spiritual disassembly of the federal army comes from the Greens and Left. – I am going to answer you: Just you alone say: We don't need a federal army, we want to abolish the federal army, and all those who go to the federal army are not accountable. They say: We don't need all of that. We don't need a state defense, we don't need security. – You might want to do this with Cabaret alone! The fact that you are against the German army, Mr Wabl, is obvious. But one thing is very, very thoughtful: What do you mean? If you make the state defense and the federal army ridiculous by coming here to the speaker's desk, sign up accordingly, and then wait, who's grinning, yelling and knocking on the legs and saying how well the Wabl is again today against the security of our country? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! You can say what you want: Your flat-rate diffamations of other parties are nothing new! It is important that you first and foremost be diffused, second, that you consider the extent to which the claims are true, and thirdly, the matter may then be put into a ridiculous state, so that it will be forgotten again. – That’s not how it should be! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to talk about the savings package that the German army has also met. We all want more budget resources, that is beyond doubt; we agree on this. I am glad that the savings fund was not used in the army, but in the administration, in matters of supply or in outsourcings, such as in the motor vehicle sector. As much has been said about procurement today, I would just like to remind you that the focus of the procurement concerns telecommunications devices, radars, defence weapons, improvement of the capacity for immediate action, splitter protection, simulators and the like. All of this serves to improve the German army's impact. It is only natural that we all wish that more procurement can be made, and we will do everything by the ÖVP to increase the funding available to the Federal Government, because security is a major concern for us. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you get the money?]] Mr Oellinger! Where do we take the money for other positions? Where? – We take it from the revenue! Is that wrong? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] Very right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are then divisions, and not every minister has to get his money himself! We agree on this! I hope you can follow that up. [[Abg. Wabl: Where does Fassleven get the money? Christmas is over! Maybe at the "consumer"!]] However, I do not want to be stopped by your interlocutors, but rather I would like to take into account the importance of the defence of the country, whose need is underlined and which emphasises the fact that the Austrian People's Party is in favour of this national defence and for our federal army. I would also like to express my surprise: I did not expect you, Mr Gaál, to express yourself publicly in this form. I know that there is an end to the Greens and Left in the Social Democrats and that you are also called for by the "Bundesheer light" and the abolition of the federal army and the like. However, since there is not enough finance here, I must also remind you that for more than two decades, namely 26 years, the Socialist Party or the Socialists have appointed the Minister for Finance. If you simply say that the only responsibility, if the state defence is not enough to make money available, of course has the Minister of Defence, then we must already remind you that there is also a finance minister! For the sake of completeness, this should be mentioned. I consider this claim, and also Federal Minister Fassleven agrees with me, for grotesk – in the knowledge of how we deal with our finances and also carry a saving package of coalitionary. Finally, I would like to draw positive conclusions from these statements. I trust in the representatives of the Social Democrats, and I hope that the Socialists will act in a coalitionary way for the necessary equipment and mechanization of the Federal Force. [[Abg. Scheibner: When is it? 1998 or when?]] I hope that, for this reason, a substantial increase in the national defence budget will be made in the sense of security - I would like to say this to Mr Wabl - for all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17882	Mr Wabl has reported an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please. Start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17907	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Murauer has claimed that the Greens would have said that those young men who go to the federal army are not accountable. That's wrong. I have made it clear in my speech that many of those who make defence policy in this House seem inaccurate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17934	The next speaker is Dr. Ofner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e17955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Democracy is already something beautiful in its comprehensive tolerance. She has room for everyone, even for the Wabls. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's part of it. There are forces everywhere that build up what we all need, and there are others who use it and make fun of it. That's the way it is. That belongs to life, to democracy. We must only recognize, know and be careful that we do not even make concessions or come into contact with them too much. This must be avoided, even for reasons of self - respect; that is very important. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I can tell you what you might already have been told: On Friday last week there was a strong and long debate here in the house on the problem of the attempts by the one government party to take out the army news service from the area of national defence and to assign it to another department – whether it be the interior office or the Federal Chancellor's Office. We have opened this debate and continued for hours because we believed that you would be there on Friday afternoon and that we would like to let you be encouraged. You've been represented by Mr Ditz. That's why I'm telling you now. We liberals – and certainly many others with us – are concerned that it could become true that a concentration of power, as it has never been in history, could occur, as it is characterized by statements by the clubman Kostelka, but also by the Minister of the Interior One. Police, Gendarmerie, the perhaps still to be created border guard force, the police – quotation marks – "with some heavy weapons" – closed quotation marks – instead of the federal army, then the state police, the army intelligence service, and all this garnished with the noise attack and with the grid fencing, as one can now hear everywhere not under judicial control, but under the control of politicians, namely from government members, in one hand – at least in a political hand, if not even in a physical hand. These are developments that make us walk over the back of the goose. We liberals – and others with us surely – will defend us with all our powers that such a thing can happen. You can be sure, Minister, that we are on your side. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have heard that the freedom of movement is due to the fact that Steyr works are sometimes bad with the production of military equipment – vehicles, tank vehicles and the like. – I have to say: I'm still a witness who experienced inside, how it all started. There was a representative of Prechtl from the Socialist Party, then Socialist. He was the railway trader, and he first began to pull off the leather against the "Kürassier" production at Steyr. And he succeeded very successfully: In a short time, he was able to finally kill the "Kürassier" production. So if you're planning on working in the Steyr workers, you'll start with Prechtl. [[Abg. Edler: Chile!]] The tank production has been killed! To Chile? – That’s possible. But the Chileans didn't stay without tanks, they bought them elsewhere. Whoever wants a tank today buys it somewhere. But you have to tell the colleague, Edler von der Bundesbahn: You have to tell the colleague that because the "Kürassier" should have gone to Chile and did not like the "Prechtl" that Steyr workers have lost their jobs! That is how it must be presented clearly and in line with the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you can also stay with the "Noricum" cannons: 500 pieces practically sold to India. But then came the "Peace Apostle" Olof Palme, who has been a successful arms representative for Bofors, and he has tried to chase the Austrians off the already practically awarded by Indira Gandhi. Then the Indian government addressed the question to Sweden and the Austrians – on the one hand, Bofors and on the other hand, "Noricum": If we need the cannons, can we expect to get spare parts, ammunition and the like? The Peace Apostle Olof Palme wrote only one sentence: Yes, of course. – Minister Lacina, then Minister for the National Industry, wrote five pages of wound text, with the result: You can always have that, only if you are serious, then of course that would not be the case from our point of view. - And the supplement, please, the Sweden got. Interestingly, the friendship of Rajiv Gandhi with Olof Palme has come from the disarmament negotiations in Geneva. – It's all so perverted! But Mrs. Ederer's only intention is to tell the Steyr workers: Starting from Prechtl, continuing via Lacina, perhaps from high ideas and motives, but the jobs have gone smoothly, and the Austrian military equipment industry of great tradition, 150 companies, has gone ahead of the dogs, and many thousand jobs with it. [[Abg. Edler: Are you of the opinion that we should supply weapons to the warring countries?]] There is a need to remain honest, to recognize a little bit in recent history, and to trust, Mrs Ederer, to name things by name. You can demand that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You forgot the 800 million Schilling commission for the Rajiv Gandhi!]] There was a second mistake, because on the one hand, the commission had already already received Indira Gandhi, and then it was embarrassingly shot. And then Rajiv Gandhi had to get the commission again. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] It was all very complicated. But the decisive thing – I experienced it at the time – was the letter of the Federal Minister Lacina, who said to a state that had a standing army of 2.5 million men or more, and had a crisis line around it: You can have guns and everything, only if you need it, you won't get anything. That must be said openly! Not only can we say that we are going with the palm branch, as the Olof Palme did, but we must also say to the workers: Because we're going with the palm branch, you have nothing to do. If you are honest, you have to make this clear. And that's what you have to tell the Steyrers. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But he has easily overcome his social democratic skrupel!]] When it comes to the army – I have only more than four minutes – I see the main problem when it comes to this, our federal army, which has already cut back its demands on the number of soldiers in the last few years and, as you can hear, is already going down from 120 000 to 80 000 or 90 000 men, there are still too many heads and far too few Indians. In fact, there is a lack of money, of course. But above all, there is also a lack of basic military servants. It is a tug between the individual units that soldiers need and they cannot all get in sufficient number. Because it's birth-induced vintages. It is in times when the young people are already driving moped and similar, so that they come to the defensive age and are already invalid or sick. And then, at present, the civil service system is designed in such a way that only one volunteer comes to the army. Only those who really want it will end up with the army. Everyone else is already somewhere else. And this leads to our having a truly incisive shortage of soldiers in the army. We also experience this in the maneuvers, where you scratch much too low team positions, colorfully cast from a number of units. It will be no different in 14 days, at the final maneuver of the military academy. The foreign attachés will note exactly where they come from, and they can then meet their estimates very correctly. It is indeed true that the guard can no longer be properly carried out almost in Austria, because there are no people to do so. In addition, the number of soldiers who are newly-citizened Austrians and who cannot be used for the guard is so great that they no longer know how to guard things, and that those who are able to guard do not comply with additional services. It is true that a part of the soldiers are barred because they come from countries where they may be believed that they are better able to use the machine gun that they are supposed to guard somewhere in the area from where they are, or to bring it there – quite out of idealistic attitude, of course. And then there are others who do not come from such countries, therefore have no lock-up note, but can have so little German that they cannot be explained to them what they should guard. These are the problems that are not in the newspaper, but the army has. It's too few soldiers. And those who have it, in part, can't need it. It will therefore be necessary, above all, to ensure that there are enough basic service providers and, above all, to try to open the way for the women who want to come. Because we need them! This is not something for the newspapers, where one shows some girl how it rises into the uniform and places a steel helmet or more. We need the women: We need them in the economy, we need them in administration, we need them in the army. And that is why it is irresponsible to prevent them from actually complying with their ideas in this regard. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Amon.]] I promise a little of the military's foreign operations. The Austrian has not changed its mentality in the last decades – perhaps even longer – in connection with the defence of the country. You only need to read the literature Conrad von Hötzendorfs from the turn of the century and something after that. It is believed that the time of the budget debates in our decade will be spent in Parliament, taking note of what it was about in the Reichsrat, in the same house at that time: Also about the problems of recruitment quotas, also about the problems of equipment, armament, the reassembly. Under this expression, which no one knows today, the horses hide themselves, for at that time the horses were the round and the open for the troupe, as riding animals and as draft animals. It was such a desperation that Conrad von Hötzendorf resigned if I really remember it twice even: from protest. With their blood and their lives, the Austrian soldiers had to do this in the then outbreak of the First World War. There it was too late. All the others were superior, they saved less, the Russians, the Italians. They have had the heavy artillery that the Austrians can have produced, but have not purchased, according to the motto: "Sold it me G'wand, I'm going to heaven! It won't be so bad, we don't need it all anyway!" There will always be the others taking the chestnuts out of the fire. But next to the mentality: It won't get so bad, take everything on the light shoulder! the Austrian still has a second national property: He just doesn't want the foreigner to look down on him. He's always scared: What will the foreign say? He wants to be a pattern student. This has been noted again and again in the context of the European Union. The Austrians now know very well that the failure of the Austrians to use Somalia, because they did not have the equipment – in fact, they did not have it – is still difficult for us today to comply with the UN et cetera externally, internationally. It is only not admitted; but it is so. We have been blamed a second time when it went in the direction of Bosnia, because those responsible there have said the same thing: You don't need to come with these steel helmets! You don't need us to come without the scatter guard vests! Without the additionally armored trucks you don't need us to come! – And lightning-like was all there. The steel helmet, which no one is supposed to be able to believe, is neither for sitting nor for looking at, for it reminds so much of the steel helmet of the German Wehrmacht; but now the whole world carries it, and the Americans and similar produce it. The scatter guard vest, it had to be purchased for a lot of money. The vehicles, they had to be armored in addition. I assume that we will be able to see the international pressure in the direction that we may be able to derive cheap things from it for the army. You won't want to blame yourself as an Austrian. I rely on it. And from this point of view, if there is an increasing tendency towards international operations, the army may be able to benefit accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18086	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Tychtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Two things always happen when negotiating this budget chapter: It's almost always being handled at midnight, and it's always about money. And if I have to comment on this, I will do so in good time, because that is also a good tradition. I would therefore just like to say a few words on this subject. Federal Minister! In the proposal for the Federal Finance Act 1996, but also in 1997 the expenditure is taxed. Here are four points to read: It is about maintaining the Federal Army's operations, maintaining the training of the military officers and continuing training of the cadre, continuing the modernisation of the federal army's equipment to the extent already contractually bound, and taking into account the requirements for the maintenance of the infrastructure. Well, what's it all about? There are also a few points that have already been noted. In particular, I noticed the equipment for UN operations and for IFOR. My previous speaker referred briefly to this. And it is true that the necessary equipment must be ensured, especially for UN operations and for IFORs. But it must not, I think, repeatedly require an opportunity to obtain such equipment in the short term. For a motor vehicle that the German army buys should actually have an operating book, where one can see very clearly and clearly what kilometre is given, when it has to be driven to the service, as it is expected, so that from the outset one can see how many uses such a vehicle can still do. I've been surprised by press releases a few days ago, in which the German army, with its entire equipment, was actually presented as a – with confidence – an altruistic scrap baptisms. I know that's an exaggeration. I am also convinced, however, that perhaps one or the other should really be taken into consideration, that we should be very, very intensive in dealing with the means available to us and thus, above all, ensure the safety of our teams and officers. I have already pointed out in the Committee on Budgets that I am actually going to have a little bit of the part that the German army, as I believe, can play very strongly in the population and which is also received very positively by the population. I refer specifically to the question of the use of disasters. It is also necessary for the team, officers, but also materials and vehicles to be in order. There is little to be done when one calls for help to the Federal Army, but on the other hand the Federal Army is equipped with equipment and team with which one cannot be mastered by a disaster, because one has just taken certain possibilities before. I think it would be with little financial commitment, but all the more logistics to achieve, and we could raise the positive image of the German army just outside the population. What we need for a positive mood for our army should not we try to earn, but the army itself deserved it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, it is also necessary that we actually implement those parts mentioned in chapter 40. Since much has already been said about it today – regardless of whether it is about tanks, aircraft or whatever –: We should try to deal with the ten-year investment programme already mentioned here a few times, which we do not really know what is there. What does the planning look like? How are the times actually? – It would be necessary to deal with this in the National Defence Committee in order to set priorities ahead of us. And then we could discuss what measures we should consider financially. But a discussion that we do not know what it is all about, I think it is a little targeting. A discussion in the Committee would be a goal in the sense of our federal army, so that we can equip this federal army in the future in such a way that it is not only legible but also usable.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18180	The honourable Member is now speaking. Stoisits. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18201	Dobar ve#ar, poštovane lady i gospodi! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. I wonder, Are Dr. Ofner and Dr. Maitz both in the "Constitutional Arch", or are Dr. Ofner and Dr. Maitz outside the "Constitutional Arch"? [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you in the "Constitutional Arch"?]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, either Dr. Now, with his state-bearing speech about the German army and about security issues, Ofner is back in the "Constitutional Arch" – or Dr. Maitz is in danger of flying out of the "Constitutional Arch" because he has spoken of it as a cause for the crisis of Austrian security policy being the overcrowding of the value of ever-ending neutrality. – This is really quite remarkable and quite amazing. [[Abg. Wabl: That's incredible!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You will be surprised by the Socialist Group that I will give the Dr. Ofner the right in his bridge in the "Constitutional Arch". He said here that the SPÖ did not at the time have the courage to admit something: They did not have the courage to tell the workers at the time when it came to the export of tanks to Chile that weapons do not mean that there is no business to do with the export of war materials. If you had had this courage at the time to tell the workers, then you would have had the chance to switch to civil production. But your courage from then on leads to Mr. Dr. Ofner – and I understood it – had to admit that, logically, in the reverse of war material exports to warring countries, the neutrality of Austria and an essential part of the Austrian federal constitution and this idea should be allowed. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who called to refuse military service?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This interpretation of Mr. Ofner should give you some thought. But that is not really the reason, ladies and gentlemen, for my speech. The reason for my speech is an extremely urgent, highly esteemed Mr. Federal Minister. I have sent you a written parliamentary request regarding the announced participation of Austrian military members in the initiation of the monument in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad. But now this question is so urgent, because we questioners are at risk that they will give us an answer if they – I don't know how many they will be – have already completed their participation. Because, unfortunately, God gives you the rules of procedure of the National Council eight weeks to answer questions. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, even if it is late at night, it must be that this opportunity is used here in the course of the budget debate. Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen. To explain to you what this is about, I would like to read something to you – only in excerpts – what John Mario Simmel and some friends and fellow fighters of them have written to the highly esteemed Lord Chancellor. John Mario Simmel invites the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, yes he urges him to prevent the assembly of the monument in Volgograd, with the words: "They would save our country a lot." The planning for this monument, ladies and gentlemen, has been a long time ago, and it is in 1992 that Johannes Mario Simmel writes. This group of high-ranking figures of public life has already strongly opposed the establishment of this monument, as it has become known. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you have against this monument?]] Johannes Mario Simmel writes to the Federal Chancellor – and this is perhaps especially important for the Federal Minister: It would be useful and necessary to remember that the Austrian participants in this war did not die for freedom or for the country of the father, but to build in Volgograd a monument which conveys the message that the victims are all alike, whether they have fought against nationalism in the Soviet army and have thereby also done a terrible blood duty for our liberation, or whether they have fought and fallen as an aggressor in the German military power. [[Abg. There's everyone like this!]] "That's it," writes John Mario Simmel, "a notion that is bound up with historiography." [[Abg. Scheibner: Very superlative what you bring!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I must give this recognized Austrian antifascist more than right, because he is right with one above all: If he notes in his letter that today, unlike the year 1992, it is clear that what happened a few years ago has proved to be unsustainable, namely, this supposed possibility of separation between the "clean military power" and the "criminal SS", namely, through the scientific preparation of the events of the time. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: These were just soldiers!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The parent generation!]] Johannes Mario Simmel also writes that at the time also Dr. Helmut Zilk, one of the main contributors of this personal committee, belongs to the politicians and politicians of all political groups – apart from the Green Group – that at that time also Dr. Helmut Zilk, who is truly also to be referred to as a recognized and worthy Austrian antifascist, was not yet known these aspects. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Unbearable verbal attacks!]] But especially now, where, in particular, only a limited, small, yet valuable part of the Austrian public, especially by the exhibition, which was shown at the Alpine Milk Centre last year – the "war of extermination" – has been made a lot aware, and where, above all, it is known that Germany has long since distanced itself from projects like this, especially for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary that the Minister of State gives us an answer to these questions. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wabl.]] At the beginning of June, Austrian federal army officers are to be present in Austrian uniforms and participate in them. That is why I ask you, Minister of State: Is it your understanding that the Austrian federal army is seen as a traditional successor to the Sixth Army of the German Wehrmacht, the Wehrmacht of the Third Reich – or perhaps rather as a traditional successor to the Austrian resistance movement against the Third Reich, Mr. Federal Minister? If you mean second thing, I'll ask myself: Why send She uniformed military members according to Stalingrad – today Volgograd – to this monument revelation? I'm really wondering: What do the Austrians want to do with this planned – yet planned – but essentially already realized – monument, indeed and truly exhorted? What's the intention? [[Abg. Scheibner: To commemorate together with the Russians of the dead! You have no propensity at all! It's unbearable! Every means is right for your measles polemics!]] I think that Austria has a lot to do and do there in the sense of a thought that is very essential to me, in the sense of the idea of reconciliation. Reconciliation is something that is very dear to us. That is why, Minister of State, it would be really useful to do there, namely to enter into a dialogue with the people of Volgograd, to enter into a dialogue with those who have survived this time. Mr Federal Minister, you know much better than I – you are the Minister of Defence – what crimes the Sixth Army has committed there. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am not saying that all members of the Sixth Army were involved in crimes there. On the contrary! [[Further calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] But, Federal Minister, parts of this Sixth Army – which is documented is historical truth – have been blamed there for crimes that a young person like me cannot even imagine. [[New calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I can't imagine that. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a hysterist!]] That's why I'm asking: Federal Minister! What kind of assignment do you really want to send there? [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: You are doing verbal grave damage here!]] I wonder, of course, if we are already in the budget debate: What is the cost of this participation by members of your hotel in Volgograd? [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing!]] "Nothing," you say from behind? – Explain this to me! Does what happens there finance, like Thomson or Saab, or whoever? I wonder, Why Think Is it not because one can actually initiate meaningful projects of reconciliation? – I could well imagine that, as a gesture of Austria, an exchange program between the descendants of those who suffered from Austrian and German soldiers was initiated there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your current speech is the epitome of inconsistency!]] That would be a gesture! I can also imagine that a joint research project is being initiated. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're incite the hatred!]] And I'm asking you: Why do it? You don't? Why do it? You don't want to see this, if you don't want to see yourself in the traditional care of the Sixth German Army, in the traditional care of those who have fought against the National Socialist regime? Federal Minister! These questions are urgent. This spectacle is planned for early June in Volgograd. And when John Mario Simmel addresses the German Chancellor's request: Don't prevent the creation of this monument in Volgograd, you would save our country a lot!, I mean: Federal Minister! You could come before Mr Bundeskanzler by giving a clear answer here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18466	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18487	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Right now, my colleague. [[Abg. Scheibner: Say something to Stoisits! That was incredible!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I would like to ask colleagues Scheibner to perhaps reconsider his attitude to the agreement on the military budget. [[Further call of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Support, Mr Scheibner, can only be given something, if you also have the opportunity, in this case in particular, to give the financial opportunity to do everything. If you reject the budget, then do not give any support and therefore not the possibility. - On the one hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Scheibner and Dr. Ofner.]] Mrs Stoisits! I am against it if you say here at the speaker's desk in about – perhaps you didn't mean it so much – that all those who had to serve in the German Wehrmacht – they didn't serve voluntarily but had to serve – would be put into a shaky light. I don't want to use the word "criminal" at all. My father had to serve in this military power; he is still alive. If he had refused this service, he would not have lived for a long time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The current draft budget for 1996 and 1997 shows, as in recent years, a significant restructuring of the costs for the Austrian Federal Army. It contains a number of essential projects, in particular the maintenance of the operation of our army, the training of the military officers and the training of the cadre, but also the modernisation and renewal of equipment. By purchasing modern equipment such as shooting and fighting simulators as well as shooting and training equipment, the training can be more armed and the device protected with the associated ammunition, which does not save the federal army insignificant costs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the Austrian Federal Army has completed a lot of assistance missions. Our UN soldiers have gained much sympathy and recognition not only domestically, but also internationally. The fact that more than 33 000 Austrian soldiers have been involved in UN operations since 1960 speaks for itself. We must not close up international peacekeeping measures in the future either. The delicate commitment our soldiers are currently making in the framework of the IFOR Troupe in Bosnia-Herzegovina can satisfy us all with pride. But we can only be proud if pride is also appropriate. And in this case pride is really appropriate. The Austrian team in this 90 percent of the area of use is ready for use and, in addition to its actual task, also carries out the transport of building materials and seeds. The best action launched from Austria, namely to provide seed for these war zones, could not be carried out if the seed was not broken where it was urgently needed. And that's what our Austrian UN soldiers are getting! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, I should like to point out that our soldiers are voluntarily involved in their foreign operations, but take a very high personal risk. The objective of the Austrian People's Party – and it should also be the objective of all the political groups here in the House – is to ensure that these units will continue to be equipped as best as possible in the future in order to ensure their safety. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At this point, however, I would also like to thank all those soldiers who have been working for years in the assistance of the Austrian Federal Army on the Burgenian border. Austria's population has a right to ensure that the inviolability of the Austrian border and Austrian sovereignty is fully guaranteed. There is currently no alternative to the assistance of the Austrian federal army. And in the In the course of the budgetary negotiations, it was agreed to maintain assistance on the Burgen border for the entire duration of this legislative period. A possible extension of the area of application to parts of Lower Austria was envisaged, which I can only welcome as a Lower Austrian representative. In this context, I should like to point out that, in addition to its considerable success in taking up illegal border violations, assistance is extremely understanding among the local population and that our soldiers are such a good example of the need for the army. But I also have a second thanks: The soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army also provide assistance in the event of disaster. Especially this winter, it has been shown that the soldiers of the Austrian federal army are very much involved in the reprocessing of the snowbreak damage in our forests, with a second disaster also being averted, because when these snowbreak forests are processed as quickly as possible, the birch beetle cannot damage our forests and our nature. High house! The 1996 and 1997 budget estimate for the state defense is a clear contribution by Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven to the consolidation of the Austrian state budget. With the negotiated compromise achieved – and I attach great importance to remembering that it was a compromise – the defence resort supports the saving course of the Federal Government, but nevertheless guarantees funding for the ongoing reform projects in the Austrian Federal Army and at the same time allows for a targeted increase in the level of equipment. We should not detest our federal army and therefore the young soldiers and – now I am speaking in the direction of our colleague Wabl – our army. I am with this federal army and my colleagues in the political groups. We shall therefore vote in favour of these budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18577	Mrs Mag. Stoisits has sought an actual correction. – Please start with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18604	Mr President. I am correcting my previous speaker, Mr Sauer, as follows. He claimed that I had about claimed that all those who had to serve in the military force were criminals. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Sauer: Not everyone!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I'm actually correcting him: It is true, rather, that I have specifically pointed out here that neither I nor critics of the intended monument have ever claimed that all members of the Sixth German Army were ensnared in these terrible crimes. Your accusation, Mr. Sauer, goes empty. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, it obviously only serves to hide, to what extent the Wehrmacht as an institution...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18671	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The actual correction is thus terminated. Mr Mentil has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18695	Mr President. Minister! High house! I find this kind of discussion highly inappropriate. We talk about the safety of our sons and possibly our daughters when we talk about the defense budget. - That's for the introduction. We discussed a structural destruction law last week, and this week we are fighting with a budget that must be deeply voted by an entrepreneur, precisely because of the impact that this budget has on us. [[Abg. Kiss: Very "original"!]] There is nothing to do with the fact that the Federal Chancellor from the government bank today has declared twelve times in the afternoon: We have, we have, we have. The Federal Chancellor has been saying for a decade that he has. [[Abg. Kiss: What's wrong with him?]] – But no one believes he has anything anymore. On Saturday, 20th. April 1996, was read in the "Economics Week": "Employees may be in Austria. Sale of savings package and falling yield Investors are increasingly going to Prague, Budweis and Budapest." Next statement, again from a renowned economic magazine: "Hol's the vultures: 1995 was heart. 1996 is becoming brutal. The Austrian economy is currently experiencing the biggest pleite wave since the Second Republic was established. An end is not in sight in the foreseeable future." Third comment on your "superbudget" and the hope of our economic operators: "The situation of the nation: Debtenberg is growing. Not even the Court of Auditors knows how high it actually is." That was the introduction so you can see how your budget is estimated. Now I come back to the budget myself, and what the experts think about it. That you praise the budget in heaven is clear, but the experts see it differently. – With this budget for the army you simply and simply reach that you demoralize the federal army. There is a total disorientation in the commanders. You can ask the people concerned. We cannot only discuss this from the Parliament's point of view, but we should deal with the soldiers once. What will the next reclassification look like?, the soldiers ask themselves. How else to save? How will it go? – These are the questions they are interested in. The uncertainty on the middle and lower levels is growing in all directions. Long-term service planning is not possible because it is never possible to ensure that the requested basic defence service providers required for the current operation are also present in the convocation quota. This is the problem with the Austrian federal army! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should question the frustration of the groundmen and military soldiers. You should talk to your sons or your daughters when they declare themselves ready to serve with the gun. There's a lot of idles, the young people say. With Euphoria they go to the federal army. After some time, however, they explain that there are many voids because there is too little staff for an efficient exercise program. Miliz Soldiers are called up for exercise preparation, although it is not at all certain whether the exercise can be carried out for financial reasons at all. These are verifiable and verifiable facts. I can bring you witnesses to dozens: Military soldiers appointed to a three-day military practice spend two and a half days – listen carefully: two and a half days! – with stand-by-vision control and adoption formalities. Half a day remains for the exercises. But for financial reasons, for example, because there is too little ammunition, these exercises can not be performed as they should be done. - That's what it looks like! If you believe that we can increase the will of our young boys and inspire them for the defence of the country, I will tell you: I believe that this will be done in this form. It is not responsible – I say it again – to let our sons and daughters make edifications with main weapons systems and send them to the border that is currently 30 to 50 years old for the serious case. With this scrap, we send our sons and daughters to the border when it is crisisd and powerful somewhere! That cannot be a responsible defence policy! You can't tell me that! That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution so that you can see that we are good will and at any time ready to contribute to a responsible national defence policy. [[Quoted print version removed]] We shall consider how the gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party or the former Minister for Defence, Friedhelm, stand up to this motion for a resolution, how far they are really willing to take responsibility for their sons and daughters, who are at worst required to take over responsibility and give them security.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18772	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mentil is sufficiently supported, it is included in the negotiations. As the next speaker, Deputy is Dipl.-Ing. Sad to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18796	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too can only regret that we are once again discussing the chapter on national defence at an early stage in the morning. The Austrian federal army would have deserved attention at a more Christian time. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The self-proclaimed defenders of the Federal Army are not entirely indifferent to the fact that it has become two o'clock early in this budget debate, and many of us are forced to take a brief look at their statements here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister, you have managed to arouse the media interest in the last few weeks. Many of my previous speakers have already made it: About the army once again stood a lot in the newspapers. I claim: The echo wasn't as positive as you and your gentlemen might have imagined. This dramatic call for help, in which in the first phase our mechanized force was presented as "rust bowls", then caused a turnaround. After we pointed out that it could probably be a maintenance problem if rust occurred, the next report was: It is not rust, but the increase in the value of combat is no longer possible. The M 60 A3 is actually scrapped. This is what Mr Gaál has already done: Minister! Within three years, you have also carried out a turnaround in this area. Because three years ago this was considered a technical standard, but today the material no longer meets. – Fight tanks, ladies and gentlemen, do not age from the technical standard to the scrap model in three years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] But interesting is also other things that can be taken from the gaskets. The Ministry of Defence has been engaged, at least since the 17th century. April of this year, with almost revolutionary questions. That's what it says in the gaskets – I quote –: "Should all battle tanks be replaced, or do you come out with fewer tanks due to a changed threat image?" - Quote. It's out of the ministry. – Woe, ladies and gentlemen, when a social-democratic politician made such considerations! Then it was called: These are left utopia, which is a threat to the Republic, "Bundesheerschaffer", colleague Scheibner, is then the most friendly thing to hear. Minister! You called the tanker force the "Hammer der Landeswehrung" (Hammer der Landeswehrung) in the Committee. – Let’s take a brief look at our borders, also around quarter three in the early days, which “stickers” use other states: For example, Finland. There is a very interesting article in the last "Tropendienst", a magazine sent to the ladies and gentlemen of the National Defense Committee. I say that Finland has a more sensitive threat image than it is in Austria. So I quote from this magazine: "The Finnish tank team is currently more powerful than ever. New combat vehicles and materials were purchased mainly from the former Soviet Union and the dissolved associations of the National People's Army of the former German Democratic Republic. It is sufficient for the construction and maintenance of two tank brigades. The first time in the history of Finland, there is enough war material that is adapted to the conditions." - Quote. What do these two "best equipped" tank brigades look like? – They consist of 65 pieces of T 72, i.e. 25-year-old combat tanks, a total of 130 tanks. These are the "hammer" of Finland! – Austria has 170 M 60, which is insignificantly older than what is going on in the life of a tank, but with us it is called a "screw tire"! Another example is the Republic of Ireland: The Irish – not the fools, ladies and gentlemen! – have no chained vehicles for years, no combat tanks, no hammers. And the Irish are also convinced that they can defend their homeland efficiently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have a changed threat picture, and maybe we need a smaller hammer or a screwdriver. Of course you can also release a screw with the hammer, but the efficiency of a screwdriver is higher. I think that the procurement of wheel tanks is efficient – in this respect I am of an opinion with the Federal Minister. His statement that wheel tanks are to be purchased for all troop holes I can fully agree with. However, we no longer agree on the purpose of using it. With amazement, I have heard in the Committee that the Minister views the wheel tank as a substitute for fixed installations. To do this, I can say: They won't be! Or should we resolve our tasks in the UN operations with the export of fixed plants? – I ask you, Minister, that you interpret this by the general officer who may have written it down to you! I believe that the wheel tank can do much of the future tasks of the army. I claim that an equipment, such as the information battalion – which we both know very well – will have after an upgrade to the "Pandur" – is useful and targeted. I believe that this will allow for border surveillance and disaster response. I would like to present my observations, which I have made in the case of Yugoslavia, which is repeatedly mentioned, here: If you've watched a "K" staring up at the loiblpass, you'll have to find out: This is not a suitable use for a tank weapon. – However, I am going to skip this point. But I also believe that it makes no sense to compare with another device again. This wheel tank is an Austrian product. Currently 68 pieces are made from various Austrian companies, and these companies are also able to meet the further need. High house! The coalition parties are committed to modernising equipment, training facilities and accommodation. Mr Gaál also pointed out that military principles in the fields of operation, training and procurement should be presented. We imagine that in the context of this principle planning we will also be presented with a concept for our mechanized troops, which will also make it easier for us to assess a ten-year investment programme and the future more effectively. The coalition is committed to a contemporary design of the peace and deployment organisation as well as the leadership structure. Our soldiers, ladies and gentlemen, will also find with the limited financial resources the conditions they need to implement the political mandate. I would also like to conclude by thanking the staff of the framework, which the Austrian youth has provided for the Republic in the framework of the presence and civil service.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18903	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. – Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a speaking time of five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18924	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Twice during this day we have had to make the well-known appearances of the colleague Stoisits about us, and I have to say: You polarize, you spread discord, and you keep the word "conciliation" on your lips in a perfid manner. It's unbearable! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The national defence chapter is one of the saddest chapters of the budget debate. We are making a budget for two years, and at the end of these two years, weapons and equipment and all of us will be two years older, but that will be the only thing that we have been moving with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The disaster or state of defence, which causes the officers to cry for help in the press, when they say that the force of the fighting is significantly weakened, we give ourselves almost to ridiculousness, has not fallen from heaven. This is a consequence of the policies of recent years, not to say decades. The list of things that we would urgently need for our national defense – from the Dragon successor to tanks, anti-tank weapons, helicopters, personal protection – is infinitely long, and the money is not enough in the back and front. And even where modernized, it was so modernized that, in the end, through the gaps in the system as the "press" writes, modernisation was made ineffective. In principle, the coalition is also away from a unanimous view of the further process of security policy. There are no approaches to harmonisation and a uniform position, however, which would be urgently necessary if we were to achieve the often conjured Europe's maturity. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another concrete proposal where it could be saved. As you know, employees of the Federal Building Administration are used to manage the barracks. And if you know how a concrete process takes place when there is something to clean up in a barracks, a shower is to be rebuilt, or windows are changed, as the interaction between BGV and the military authorities takes place, then the question is already raised: Could you not simplify that? – I am convinced that the military administration, the barracks commanders, would be able to deal with such things in its own direction, in its own responsibility, under its own budgetary sovereignty, which could save millions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In today's "Kurier" there is a picture of our Minister of Defence, with the subtitle: Desirable looks at new military technology. And there are models, not to say toy models, presented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The state defense is not a game! I mean, we have to change a lot in order to ensure an efficient national defence for the benefit of our homeland and our homeland Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e18984	Mr Amon. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have three parts in Parliament, one part, which is clearly in favour of a functioning, efficient national defence, consisting of the Liberal Forum, the Austrian People's Party and the Liberals, then we have a group, the Social Democracy, which, I have the impression, does not know exactly what it wants, such a little "not fish, not meat" on this question, and then we have a political group, namely the Greens, who know what they want, namely, no national defence. [[Call the Greens.]] Sometimes one has the impression that it would be better for you if the German army didn't even have radios, but the news would be sent back and forth with letter-doves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At any rate, it can be said that Austria with a share of gross domestic product of 0.8 and 0.9 per cent is actually the final light in Europe, which is exactly what the national defence budget is about. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Isn't that enough?]] Other comparable countries spend 3 to 6 percent of the gross domestic product on it. On the other hand, you have to say, of course: If there is a higher saving target, then the area of national defence is also subdivided. And yet I have the conviction that the Social Democrats believe that these 0.9% of gross domestic product are still too much for national defence, if some words have been heard here. [[Abg. Scheibner: 0.83 percent!]] In my opinion, this approach is problematic in two ways, because on the one hand, the German army is increasingly coming to the limit of the fulfilment of its mission, but on the other hand you are closing a comprehensive security discussion, which must go further than just to the question of whether one can be active in UN operations. In reality, we are giving a mandate from the National Council of the Federal Army, which can only be very, very difficult to fulfil with the current budget. Each independent state has an army that has an order, and according to this order one determines the strength, the armament, the equipment and any fighting procedure. . I believe that this task which we have given to the Austrian federal army must be complied with, including what the budget is doing. Finally, I would like to address a very important point, namely the fact that, as we do with civil servants, we should, in particular, signal much more strongly to those present, that they are providing an important service to our country. In this context, it is also necessary that we continue to increase the day-to-day allowance, that we further improve accommodation, and that we should definitely be even better in dealing with those present. [[Abg. Wabl: Even better?]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19080	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen. The speaking time available to you is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19107	It is really a "joy" to discuss in the late evening – or in the early morning. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It's early in the morning!]] But I think it is not up to me and not to our group that this time of day or morning has been reached. But since you are monning – and you are specifically from the ÖVP – that this is such an important debate and that you are unfortunately being held at this morning, I am right to say: This is a very important debate. One should take such a discussion seriously and look at it from many facets. It sheds a significant light on your willingness to discuss it, even on the gentlemen of the F, when you ask me to go down to the speaker's desk first where I served. Obviously, only militants are allowed to discuss this issue and not civilians. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do "militarists" mean?]] If you address this question to me, I at least understand it. It does not bother me, because I think that I too as a civilian have enough competence to discuss it. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Check out that you're coming to the topic, it's already late!]] I have said that this is an important debate, and your response to what my colleague Mr Stoisits has said has moved me to speak. – This was such a violent reaction, which showed that it is obviously not possible in Austria – unlike Germany – to discuss the past and the role of the military in the Second World War, the involvement of the military in the crimes during the Second World War, and also to illustrate this when it comes to such a debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: What has this lost in the national defense budget?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean?]] There is a book presented today in the "Standard" which was presented last week in the "Time"; it came out in the United States. What's in this book is nothing new. It has written a Harvard professor, and he is not the first and the only one who wrote such a book. Before him, several other scientists have written similar things – according to the studies of historical archives. [[Abg. Kiss: And that's what you're up to!]] This book is called "Hitler's Willy Liner", the author is Daniel Jonas Goldhagen. – I speak German once because I do not know what the right pronunciation is. In principle, Goldhagen repeats what a colleague before him, namely Browning, has already described a few years before, namely that it is not about – and that is something that no one really claims today among the historians of Germany – that this extermination machine, this insane murder, is due to the fact that there was an insane man named Hitler, but that there was a small group of SSlers who supported him, and that we know today that the whole system has only worked for two reasons: [[Abg. May. Trattner: Are you talking to the budget?]] For one reason, a multitude – and there are certainly the numbers apart – of military members, of military personnel, of "normal" people, of "normal" neighbors, of "normal" family fathers, and probably because of cultural and historical contexts. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with the German army?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Come to the theme!]] This is, of course, an argument to say: Yeah, what was my father supposed to do? If he had been shot, he would have refused this order. But there is a history of this, there is a clear political history that dates back to the last century, to German anti-Semitism and which is sufficient until 1938 – at least in Austria – which should also give an answer to this question. I think that this is important, and I think that we must be able to talk about it in a civilised way in Austria and in an Austrian Parliament, when it comes to the role of the Austrian federal army. Without reworking the history of the past without becoming aware of what is and means by the military, we should be aware that there is no serious discussion about the future of the Austrian federal army. One of the reasons why this is possible – not only in the German Wehrmacht, but why this was possible in Cambodia, why this is possible in our neighbouring country, in Bosnia, in Croatia, in areas also the rest of the Republic of Yugoslavia, when we think of Kosovo, for example, when we look at many, many of those countries where this is possible, because obedience is required. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Red Army!]] Again: As this obedience comes about, how it is interpreted, how it is understood, you should also see it in your own cultural and historical context. If we think – and I have taken this from your words – about the future of the Austrian federal army, then we should do so in the context of the European Union and in the context of what is debated at the Intergovernmental Conference – probably in the next one and a half years. The point is that there is not only a common foreign policy and a common security policy, but also that there should be such a thing as a common, cooperative security system. Well, that's where the ideas may disperse. There are groups in the National Council – and I would, by the way, also define these groups slightly differently and not use them in such an intellectual way as one of my previous speakers did – who say: NATO is the right organization to take over this task; we should join this organization. But there are also groups here in the National Council – and this is cross-group, that is not to be classified by factions – who say: The Western European Union is the right thing. But there are also those who say: Let's wait for what is to come. But you know what's superior about whatever it is: In fact, the question of the national military, of its own federal army, is massively questioning when you are going to consider what a future European security system looks like. I have often explained to you our ideas of a European security system: They are primarily preventive, anti-conflict, and they only assume in a second line and in a transitional phase that we also need military units. In a debate on the question of national defence, in a debate - I understand this - in which security policy is in the broadest sense, I miss the fact that none of my previous speakers would have mentioned it at some point in time, that there is no word of support for the at least equally important support not only of peace research but also of peace education. Our neighboring country Italy has passed laws in various regions, similar to our country days, which naturally finance and support peace projects, research projects, peace-building projects. That would be at least a start to show how credible and how serious you think it is if you put on the lips that prevention is more important than a military blow.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19286	Mrs Hagenhofer has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19307	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is two things that I would like to ask the Federal Minister and where I ask him to give me an answer or information. Federal Minister! At the last meeting of the National Defence Committee, I quoted an article of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of April this year, which shows that the German army has awarded an order for the delivery of 327,000 pairs of wool socks to the Czech Republic. The Austrian producers, as this article says, are losing a business in the order of 9 million schilling. This poses a threat to jobs in Austria, which is still at risk in the textile industry, which has to deal with serious difficulties anyway. On my question, what has prompted you, Mr Minister, to give this assignment abroad, you have said, if I remember correctly, about the following: It is an Austrian-Czech company, and, by the way, no Austrian company has offered. On our word record that an Austrian company has offered, you have then explained to us that this is an Austrian-Slovenian company. [[Abg. Slovak!]] Slovak company, yes. Thank you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Both starts with "Sl", but then...!]] We then researched at this company, and we had to find that both the material origin and the production of the socks of this Slovak company would have been in Austria. I would ask you to explain to us: What was really the reason if you look away from the cheapest offer – 1 S is our information according to the price difference per pair of socks – if you know that tax revenue, social security and job losses are opposed? Secondly, Minister of State: In the past – up to the last two years – economic development and labour market needs have always been associated with one another. That is, when man was in need of work, the call for women became loud. A special feature of women is certainly performance and willingness to perform. What has happened to date? – The women were attracted to the labour market with locks such as feeder services, housewives and cetera, but the breakthrough to leadership positions has not yet taken place in all areas. In a "standard" article of March, you say, Minister: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague, this is the wrong speech!]] Women in the army: Try to start fast. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have the wrong talk with!]] – Mr Dr. Ofner said today: The army has too few soldiers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Scatter, unemployed income!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It must not be said that if you say, Federal Minister, women quickly to the army, that women are to save the federal army, that is, to simply stand down as pitfalls for declining indentation rates! [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have so little self-confidence?]] A study also says – quoted in the "News" – that: Women were always interesting for the military when the so-called Pillsknick left not enough male soldiers to enter. In this study, it also says: In none of the armed forces the equal integration of women has been achieved up to date: neither in the USA, Switzerland, Canada nor the UK, to mention just a few examples. The Austrian Federal Army employs over 30 000 people, including civilians, and some 3,000 of them are women. However, most of these 3,000 women are employed in the cleaning service or as a writer – not a single woman in a leadership position. I think we should be able to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! If They already want revolutionary changes in the army, that is, women to the army, then I do not think it is enough that a lady appears on television again and again, in full uniform of the Enlightenment Force, but there is a need for social consensus. I think we agree on that. Social consensus, Mr. Federal Minister, is achieved by means of information – you know it very well. If you want such changes in the army, then you've certainly been thinking about it, plans have been designed. They're always talking about a catalogue of measures. I ask you, Minister of State: What does this catalogue of measures include? What exactly do you plan? [[Unrest with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The Coalition Convention states that within a year women will be allowed to enter the army. But we already ask you not to get this catalogue of measures on the table in the last second, but we want to know what you are planning now. But so far, this is still a radio silence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Even if it's half past three o'clock in the morning: It is a matter which, Mrs Steibl, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should not be so wretched that we simply say: Now let's stop, that's uninteresting. [[Abg. Steibl: It is not sausage, but not so detailed! It's too long!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign the other day.]] We want to know about the SPÖ: What does Minister Fassleven do with the women? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You overestimate the abilities of the Minister! 2 000 women on a minister, that's a lot!]] What does he want to use them for? [[Continued cheerfulness with the ÖVP and with the liberals.]] – You can laugh already, that’s quite good, because you’ll get more punctual once again. - What does he want to use women with the Federal Government? We do not want to agree, and we will not let ourselves be blackmailed in the last second, perhaps by: So, in coalition fidelity, we've got to go with you now. – You will not experience that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! I would have liked to know one more thing: For example, you said in the National Defence Committee – you also spoke of a catalogue of measures there – that you want access for women to the army, so to speak, successively, not everywhere and immediately. I would have liked to know what that means in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19500	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Mr Fassleven, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19522	Mr President. High house! It has been stressed by several speakers the need for a uniform security and defence policy, at least the Federal Government, if not the State as a whole. The debate in recent months has shown that between the parties, for example, in terms of orientation for security integration, opinions are quite different. However, the agreement between the government parties ensures that, by the first quarter of 1998 at the latest, there will be a joint report by Federal Chancellor, Foreign Minister and Minister of Defence to the Parliament, namely with regard to the next step we consider necessary, the accession of Austria to the WEU. That is, the timetable for this is clarified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to the constitutional tasks of the Federal Government, there has been another important clarification, namely that the assistance of the German army is intended for the entire legislative period. I therefore believe that the relevant contributions to this debate are no longer relevant. That I do not think it particularly useful that a few weeks after the conclusion of a government agreement, certain new dimensions are addressed differently, I say only in addition to that. However, that the German army itself in the past already has detailed concepts, based on the new geostrategic situation, a new concept of use, a new army organization, a new training concept, and, of course, also based on it, the arms priorities have been established and decided, I would just like to say half the completeness. The fact that some of the arms priorities have not yet been implemented, but have only been launched in the next legislative period, is that it is precisely the last five years that have been marked by the fact that the largest need for the federal army, namely where we have no weapon system at all, namely in the steering arms sector, had to be launched and that ground, ground, air and air-air defence weapons had to be purchased. Now, on the one hand, the replacement of large-scale appliances is in the foreground of further modernisation on the other. I would also like to say that this is extremely difficult with the available limited resources. On the other hand, I believe that it is also a matter of course that the German army carries the saving course. We believe that with a slight increase in the Austrian army's approach to 513 million schilling this year, with more than 100 million schillings and a legal empowerment within the framework of 400 million schillings for 1997, a small but realistic step can be taken within the overall programme, a step which will also lead to a slight increase in the share of the Federal Government's expenditure on the total budget over these two years compared to 1995. It seems to me that it is still important to answer very specific questions. One question concerns the monument in Volgograd. – I consider it a matter of course that more than 50 years after the end of the war, one must be able to place a sign of reconciliation and set a small, modest monument to thousands, hundreds of thousands, even millions of people who had to let their lives live. I think that the focus is on the idea of reconciliation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the procurement of socks for the German army is concerned, I would like to make it clear that: There are absolute false reports to that effect. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the climate in which these messages are being distributed may be a little symptomatic for others, if I think only of the title of a magazine that has come out in the last few days and that has even given this purchase of socks to "dubios". A company has received the award, which is because it was clearly the best bidder – I refer to the Austrian award law that was decided in this House. This company is a wholly owned subsidiary of an Austrian owner and operates in the Czech Republic. The second best bidder was the 100 percent owner of this company, i.e. the second best offer would also have fallen to the same entrepreneur; it is the company Schmöger from Dobersberg in the Waldviertel. The offer of the third company, which has been repeatedly put into play by the company Putz and other providers, is not an original Austrian offer. I can show you: It is exhibited by Silva Slovakia spol s.r.o., at home in 95301, Zlaté Moravce, Brezovál, the offer exhibited in Zlaté Moravce. It is also on the stamp: It is a Slovak company that has Austrian partners, like the first-ever offer, but what could have happened, that we would have replaced an Austrian subsidiary with another Austrian subsidiary and paid more for it for a three-quarters million or even 1.5 million schilling and at the same time violated the contract law. Ladies and gentlemen who have spoken about this: That's where you clearly demand too much from us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last point raised by Mr Hagenhofer: Women to the federal army. I would also like to say right now that, although women have only been in administrative positions in the Federal Army, they have, of course, risen in leadership positions, even though perhaps there is no absolute top position right now. The last – I can tell you that because she has been known to me personally for many years – was a court councilwoman, Dr. Popelka, who has been serving. I believe that in view of the relatively narrow field, the rise of a woman in the German army in this dimension must only find imitation in a number of other resorts. Consider how many women there are in top positions, where the Social Democratic Party has had the responsibility, namely at the Austrian Federal Railways. Tell me how many percent of women there were or are in absolute top positions. We in the Federal Army certainly exceed this percentage by far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: But this is a weak excuse!]] Of course, we will not immediately open up to women the entire area of the Federal Army – although probably for administrative reasons at the beginning – for all areas, of course, including all career opportunities. A proposal on this subject will be submitted to the House shortly after consultation with the Ministry of Women, i.e. as far as possible this year, and we will have sufficient time to discuss the various aspects. [[Abg. Wabl: The list of purchases, please, Federal Minister!]] Finally, one word... [[Abg. Wabl: Where is the list of purchases? The full list of purchases, please!]] I'd like to give you the full list of purchases. You may be overwhelmed by this, Mr Wabl. I'd like to get you some insight. [[Abg. Wabl: Please write! It's easier, I'll let someone else read it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was now a debate in the early hours of the morning; it nevertheless included many interesting aspects. What I ask you to do is to support the need for military national defence and for a wide range of tasks, including in international operations, in the use of disasters or in other assistance operations. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Paraden!]] The members of the Austrian federal army are likely to have much, much more difficult to carry out their tasks than the members of other armies, precisely because of the limited resources. There has so far been no use which would not have worked and where we could not have fulfilled the task accordingly. I believe that this should be an occasion to consider that the German army should not be called into question at the very first opportunity and, if it does comply with a law, it should be called into question with suspicion on "dubios" et cetera, but that we should give him the necessary support at any time. – That would be my request to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19639	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I am now interrupting the session by Wednesday, 24. April 1996, 9 a.m. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the external budget chapter will continue. [[The sitting was suspended at 2.48 p.m. and resumed at 9 a.m.]] Resumption of the session: 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19678	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and take the interrupted 17. National Council meeting again. On today's day of sitting, Members Rudolf Nürnberger, Edeltraud Gatterer, Dr. Walter Schwimmer, Robert Elmecker, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Irmtraut Karlsson, Dr. Günther Herbsund Ing. Mathias Reichhold. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19736	For this meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister Dr. Scholten is represented as Minister of Science by Minister Dr. Michalek and in his capacity as Minister of Transport by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Konrad, Minister for Finance Viktor Klima is represented by Mr Hums, of the Federal Minister for State Defense Dr. Werner Fassleven will be represented by Federal Minister Dr. Caspar. Externals Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19779	We are continuing to negotiate the 1996 and 1997 budgets. The section on External Affairs is to be consulted. Today's speaking times have been set as follows: SPÖ 165, ÖVP 154, Liberal 143, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. I'll give him the word. – speaking time: 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e19807	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian foreign policy is at the heart of our discussions today, and it is of course obvious that we have to deal with the aspects of the future of Austria in the context of the European Union, especially when we read in today's newspapers such as the newspaper "The Press", that there is a bad mood in Austria after accession to the EU, and that there is a great deal of criticism of the government's way of doing so... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Mr Leiner, democracy is an argument and a counter-argument. And if there is no more counter-argument, then democracy ceases, and with democracy working, we have put the counter-argument. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't necessarily want to go into a controversy with you. I would just like to say that this report is important in the daily newspaper 'The Press' because it says that the European Union will provide for the first time a significant amount of money to support the European election in Member States. It provides 1 million ECU for the European elections in Finland and Austria on propaganda in the country in question, with the greater part of this million going to Austria, because the mood here is supposed to be so bad, and it is therefore necessary to bring about the mental change of the Austrians towards positive EU vote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Voice purchase!]] This is a very strange attitude, which has nothing to do with a real democratic debate, under the title of "buying vote". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the EU and also the representatives of Austria, who are sitting in the EU, really believe that this is the right way to overwhelm us with propaganda, so to speak – 80 million schilling is spent by the government, the EU spends 1 million ECU, with special dedication for Austria, because we are supposed to be so rebellious and such a scepticism exists in the Austrian population – then this is not the picture that we have been promised. I should like to point out that even the President of the European Commission, Santer, said very self-critically in an interview with Austrian newspapers, but also in a television interview a few weeks ago: Europeans cannot start with the Maastricht-EU. - That's the point! For, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot build a Europe to which we are confessing ourselves to be a Europe of peace and security, if it is built across the heads of the people. In the near future, there will be a lot of decisions where it will be necessary to make it clear that the citizens of Europe must, of course, have a right of co-decision and co-decision, and that it is not a matter of ensuring that the bureaucracy, which is, in fact, situated in a position to be, dealt with somewhere in Brussels, can ultimately pass over the people. It must be a Europe which also shows that money can be handled. Mr Bunesminister! I believe that it is really not a positive vision for the Austrians – it is already explained a certain frustration – when you see how the European Parliament is moving back and forth between Brussels and Strasbourg. Since we cannot agree where the European Parliament is located, we are building a new Parliament in Brussels with billions of expenditure, we are building a new Parliament in Strasbourg with billions of expenditure. And the European Parliamentarians, with their entire bureaucracy, with file cabinets, with iron cases, are sitting here and there. Yes, a separate train will be set up between Brussels and Strasbourg to transport the administration of the European Parliament. At a time when the disabled in Austria are being halved their pocket money because it is alleged that there is no money, Austria is playing along with such a billion-hard nonsense every day within the European institutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's terrible!]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is terrible if there are such billions of heavy investments for two unnecessarily necessary parliamentary buildings. That's exactly the superiority you're going over the heads of the Austrians. This is the frustration that people have. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I quote you a conservative thinker. Leopold Khor is so gladly quoted by the ÖVP. Leopold Khor said: The sin of modern European politics is that it feels committed to the avalanche spirit. – avalanche spirit means that one believes that one has to deal with major mistakes with ever greater organisational measures. Today, decentralisation in the economy applies – but in the political institutional life of Europe, centralization, the great solution, is the ever-greater solution. And that is why we need to talk about what the future perspective of this Europe should look like. I certainly agree with many of you that we want a decentralised Europe, that we want a federalist Europe, that we want a Europe close to the citizen. Only you have to do something about it. You can't just say, Yes, we want to do so, but we must also work to ensure that these European institutions are federated, that there is a subsidiarity that also works. But it is not up to us to continue to build a moloch that is created in Brussels, which we can no longer conduct. A first step in this direction, ladies and gentlemen, including you from the EIA, would be to say: Let us consider what this European Commission is about to become. Do we really want a European Commission that is supposed to grow towards the European Government very slowly? Shouldn't actually be discussed during the Intergovernmental Conference, whether the Commission's competences should be taken into account and the real governing body, the European Council, should be up-to-date. In the European Council, ministers are sitting, in which democratically legitimate institutions are active. They are supposed to decide – not the Commission’s auxiliary body should be able to act as the non-democraticly legitimate European central government, but they cannot do anything at all where one cannot influence. Rather, she's driving over the people and making her decisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies to the question: European Parliament – national parliaments. I thought very much that if we were more devoted to the idea that in future political development the national parliaments also have more cooperation than this is envisaged. We cannot institutionalize an image of national parliaments at the pan-European level. That's certainly wrong. And that is why it would be right to proceed in this direction. I am therefore saying this because we have finally seen Austrians through EU accession that it is good to secure our participation rights – including those we have in Austria. For there will also be those – Mr Dr. Mock will also agree with me – who have fought enthusiastically for us to join as quickly as possible, admit that the warnings from us Freemen, one should have done the homework thoroughly before taking this step, have rightly passed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have been beaten for this, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that the liberals are against Europe, they reject everything, they say no to everything. What we said was: It is necessary to prepare this accession in such a way that Austria has more advantages than disadvantages under the rule. Look at the first year's balance sheet! Even media that have been very committed to EU accession are negative today. For example, the "Salzburger Nachrichten" write today: EU accession brought food industry Turnover and job losses from thousands of jobs – thousands, not a few hundred, thousands of jobs, ladies and gentlemen! There were ministers who said: We will take care, there will be a "Eurofit programme". The food industry will, as it were, be made fit for competition in Europe in the "fitnest studio" of the Republic of Austria. In reality, this programme is still not running. To this day, individual federal states refuse to participate or co-finance. That threatens thousands of jobs. This has led to the loss of over 3,000 jobs in the food industry alone last year. And if many jobs are lost in the food industry, there are fewer orders for the supply industry, for example for the glass industry and many others associated with it. – This is what we meant by improper preparation, a solution to homework. Or: the question Semperit: Now there is a crisis summit after another, petitions to the Executive Board, in which it is said: Please, get the Semperit site! - But before the 12th. June has been pretended to be clear. You yourself, Mr Vice-Chancellor, presented yourself here to Parliament and said: I was in Japan, I was with the EU, and I have explained that Semperit can continue to deliver fully in the car supplier business with Japan. – Before joining the EU, Semperit has delivered 2.6 million tyres to Japan, now it is only 200 000. Now the location of this company is in danger – there are at least 2 300 jobs that are under discussion. That would have been homework to solve. It is not up to Parliament to disappear and break jobs, but to fight to secure jobs for future security, and then with good conscience to recommend a yes to this European Union – that would have been the line we are dealing with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Vice-Chancellor himself has promised us that EU accession will bring us 70 000 new jobs by the year 2000. Last week I read the economic research institute's prognosis, which says: Revision of forecasts: Unemployment will rise to more than 8 per cent by 2001 and we will obtain 70 000 new unemployed. – So there will be no less, but more unemployed, no more jobs, but fewer jobs, ladies and gentlemen. So I mean, you should be a little more careful about this talk in the future, we promise you so many jobs. What has this government promised? 150,000 jobs, 200 000 new jobs. – It’s getting less and less: Last time you promised 80 000, now you're already 30 000; probably They then also start promising the unemployed so that all things work. – I don’t think that’s the right way. Ladies and gentlemen! If you set the course correctly, and correct what has been missed in EU accession, then you do not have to worry about how to make propaganda in order to justify EU accession, but then you convinced the Austrians that it was reasonable. It's still on the knife cutting, I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will lead me to an issue that will certainly move us in the next few days, namely the question of the European currency. There are different statements. First of all, it said that it would be a monetary union where everyone would be involved. Now we hear again that it will be a monetary union that will in any case start with the core Europe; we Austrians are definitely in it. – Whether we're really gonna do this is not going to happen. If we make it, then it may be the price of a slightly softer currency than the D-Mark and Schilling, because if you take your budget forecasts seriously, then we need not only to keep 3 percent net Atlantic debt as a maximum limit, but we also have to accept 60 percent of gross domestic product as a maximum limit for government debt. – But we are currently far above that. In the 1997 budget, we had to generate a surplus of 89 billion schilling so that we could reach the 60 per cent limit set by Maastricht. - How this should work remains. Anyway: If there is now a core Europe to form this monetary union, then we have exactly what the Austrian Federal Government did not want, namely a Europe of two speeds, then there is the hard core and all around the maroons, which will then depend and eventually participate. What consequences this has for Austria, however, I do not want to hide, because a monetary union in which only the core Europe participates means that we also seriously deteriorate our opportunities in external trade and in today's hard-moving export economy, for example with our trading partner Italy. Explain to me where the advantage lies for us, if the Italians – that is, an important trading partner – are not with monetary union and have the opportunity, within the framework of an interconnected EES II, to leave their currency to float, to devalue, to upgrade, to determine their market positions, depending on Fasson. This is exactly the adverse policy that should be prevented. That is why we are very clear: For us, monetary union depends on different conditions: It must all be done, because only then does the whole thing make sense, and it must continue to be a hard currency, so that the Austrians have the certainty that they do not possess 20 percent less assets at the time of currency changeover, then, if they have a savings account, at once, because they have made a small cut-off and produced a softer currency. So you can't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Before all these things come, it will be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for this government to explain to us the role of the development of employment and unemployment in Europe in assessing the criteria for European monetary union. You yourself, as Social Democrats, have made great promises, and you will work to ensure that the criterion of employment is a factor in the formation of European monetary union. So you promised. – Then Mr. Klima goes to Brussels, comes back and says: Without If and But, unemployment does not play a role in assessing the criteria for monetary union. Mr. Vrannitzky said on 27 May. March in the "Standard": However, the wording of the Maastricht Treaty does not require precise compliance with the limits on public debt and government deficits, but allows for a temporary breach. - Well, that's it! "Transitional excess" means that one opens the gates for a soft currency, and a soft currency means that the Austrians are faced with a depreciation of their assets. – And here you will encounter our bitter resistance, I can guarantee you, because the Austrian population has often suffered enough from currency devaluations, currency losses, loss of wealth. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Yes, do you want to tell the Austrians that again? How does the concept of monetary union really look? – The basic idea sounds so fascinating, but technical preparation is not at all right at the moment, otherwise people like Bundesbank director Issing would not be so critical about it in a lecture in Vienna. Mr Van der Bellen was also present at this lecture and said literally: The Maastricht Treaty is nevertheless a Holler. Issing, one of the leading people of the Deutsche Bundesbank, says: Much too optimistic was and are the assumptions about the savings in transaction costs in the introduction of monetary union. Issing also said in his lecture: However, expectations are far too optimistic as regards the avoidable costs of the changeover. This costs us much more than the benefits will be. – And we will have to think about whether, just to speed up the political unification of Europe, this European Community is an economic force. Normally, the single currency is the final point of an integration process. And as long as the economies are not harmonised, of course, there can also be no truly functioning common currency. I warn you that this could be a political act of violence. Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide to accept a common currency for Europe also through Austrian schilling, we will in the future explore the possibilities of an Austrian economic and financial policy. That must be clear to us. And if we can no longer make economic and financial policy, we will no longer be able to stand up for the fight against unemployment independently here in Austria by autonomous measures by the state, public contracts, the design of our currency and so on. Then we only have the opportunity, where we have competitive disadvantages, to order wage cuts or to accept unemployment. In reality, this is the case of sin committed by social democracy today, by recognizing it, but at the same time says: In the sense of the model student role that Austria will play in the EU, we still say again, without If and But into monetary union, even if that means that, if we no longer have economic opportunities, the only way to design is to avoid wages or unemployment which we would have to accept. – This is not the way we want to go with you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I expect the representatives of the government to tell us once again once and for all, what is the concept followed by the Austrian Government? Are you in favour of a core Europe, are you in favour of a two-speed Europe? Are you for a hard or a soft currency? How will the changes take place? I am surprised that we are talking about a single European currency, and our own Austrian National Bank is just building a new printing plant with an effort of 3 billion schilling on the site of the former AKH-Narrenan Tower. 3 billion schilling of investments for a new bank printing company! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: For the pressure of the euro!]] If you want to abolish the schilling, what do we need a new note bank printing? Or do we have the opportunity to print the euro in the Austrian institutions? But then we should make sure that this euro is at least as hard as Austrian schilling, so that we can give the Austrian savers a certain guarantee and security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why we say: No experiments on these questions. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are sure of your business, please be as democratic as Santer wants, and don't drive over the citizens. Give the opportunity if there will be a monetary union to consult the Austrians in advance. Give the Austrians the opportunity to vote on whether they have this European monetary union, whether they want to give up the schilling. That would be a very democratic process. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Another point that is of interest, namely the question of enlargement of the East, is to be discussed. I also share your constantly expressed view that East enlargement has a security and peace policy importance. We liberals have therefore said that this cannot be done through economics, but it can only be done through the extension of the security alliance, primarily within the framework of NATO. That is why we have already agreed on these changes years ago. We are pleased that you are now slowly taking this course, but nothing changes the fact that the issue of Easter enlargement is still open, according to which strategy. They themselves are forcing the Easter expansion. Her colleague, Mr Ditz, said a few days ago in a newspaper interview that he could not imagine an EU enlargement because it cannot be financed under the current conditions. And of course he's right. If enlargement is made under the current conditions of the EU, it will cost so much money that the net payer Austria will have to pay additional payments to the EU so that we can take in and finance the economically weaker neighbouring countries in Eastern Europe. So what's going on now? Is that what the Minister of Economics says, or is that true of what you say? How does your Easter expansion look now? Have you also included in your considerations that an Easter enlargement in the end means, for example, that the highly celebrated Objective 1 area of Burgenland no longer exists? This means, of course, that the Objective 1 areas are moving to the economically weakest areas belonging to the European Union. Then no longer the Burgenland, but part of Hungary or Hungary as a whole or the Czech Republic will be regarded as such. [[Abg. May. Steindl: This is limited to 1999!]] Yes, of course, but we must also be interested in the fact that an enlargement strategy will not be pursued in the coming years, which in the end will have a significant disadvantage for the citizens of the European Union, Mr President. It's nothing else! You, as a Turkish Member, must be interested in the fact that this is being discussed, that we are getting information from the government about things that concern the country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There has already been enough damage caused by the lack or lack of homework. That's why we're recommending that. [[Abg. May. Steindl: This can't be lost!]] I know you're saying just before a Burgenian country election: Everything's safe anyway. - We've heard that many times. That's what it's called, Austria will get billions for research. We pay 1 billion schilling and get 400 million back! It has also been said that Austria will receive billions for the farmers. But what are you doing? [[New calls from the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Listen to me! Austria will get billions for the farmers, it was said. The EU is already giving the farmer's money, but Austria has no more money, so it is said to the farmers – against the EU's directives – that you can no longer get into the eco-programme. Austria itself is poorly prepared. We must therefore discuss these matters with an Austrian minister, so that we do not make politics under the wrong omens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: You say half-truths!]] We would of course be very interested, Mr Federal Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, how this enlargement strategy of the Austrian Federal Government can actually be seen with regard to the EU? Where does the journey go in Easter? Is it an economic one, is it a security policy? How do we finance that? What impact does this have on the net number of Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] Mr Steindl! I do not think I said such a fearsome thing so that you would have to get so excited. But I would like to admit that you are in great concern for the Burgenland. We are, however, too, because, in the end, economic development should be promoted there and not won with the political tags of the ÖVP a few voters. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: We're building Lyocell!]] Indeed, the Lyocell project is one that is just too proverbial and shows clearly where it goes for the strategy within the EU. There is a shift from the production of Upper Austria to the Burgenland, with a funding effort of 1.2 billion schilling. However, the EU's funding effort is not so great that it can really be financed. The poor Burgenland must therefore borrow a loan in the non-EU country of Switzerland so that it can make co-financing for the Lyocell relocation. [[Abg. May. Steindl: But not for Lyocell!]] That's the truth. But that's where you shake your head! The truth is that the head of state of Burgenland in Switzerland must have received loans. The supposedly so bad Switzerland must lend us credit so that we can finance the EU programmes. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Mr Haider! That's hundreds of projects!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are really the chickens laughing at this way in which politics is being made here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that with the result that for a few years you subsidize a job with 10 million schilling. It is not until you explain to me where the EU's policy is going to be subsidized by a number of operating sizes with 10 million schilling per job, but the broad middle class, which actually forms the backbone of our economy in Austria, goes out empty and has no prospects. That's the fact! You will also know that there is currently a strong debate in the EU among the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises who say: How do we get the multinationals to set up their own offices and firms in Brussels just because they have a lot of money? These are camouflage as small and medium-sized enterprises, provide rich projects, cash the funding, but belong to multinational corporations and are used by the support groups of the small and medium-sized economy. – This too is an issue to be discussed! A Europe of diversity also means that it must be a Europe of the medium-sized economy – not the large corporations, not the multinationals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The multinational corporations and large corporations are those who are homeless: They're here today and they're producing there tomorrow. That's where man is regarded as a production factor. There's no more ties to home. That's also something you should take into account. The Austrian enterprises, the industrial medium-sized enterprises are home-bound, they stay here. They are also willing to create jobs in addition if we improve the environment. – But that is not the point at present. And that is what ultimately causes people to worry and unrest again and again. Federal Minister! In the course of these EU enlargement plans, there are also talks with Slovenia. I have already agreed that the Slovenian should be made clear: If they want to come to a community like the European Community, which is also interconnected by certain values – values of democracy, values of human rights, market economy and private property – then it would be necessary for the Slovenian Government to be prepared to abolish Jajce's discriminatory laws, which – and still today – discriminated against the old Austrians in Slovenia and declared almost to be bird-free people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You once told me in an answer to a question that it would be a matter of individual discussions, which cannot be done within the framework of the EU. – I have no understanding of this attitude. If we are in this community when someone is looking at it, then he must also comply with the rules of democracy and human rights. Then it cannot be said that the partisan laws of Titos from 1943, which have been declared free of birds by any Austrian resident there, are still in force in 1996, while Croatia and other states have immediately repealed these laws in order to integrate themselves into the democratic communities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's our appeal to you! It cannot be said that the Federal Chancellor is going to the Slovenian Government and assures the Prime Minister that Austria will be supportive, while on the other hand the Italians know very well that they will address their open problems with Slovenia, including using their EU functions. Mrs Agnelli has made it quite clear that there can be no real integration steps towards the EU until the historical problem between Italy and Slovenia is resolved. - And I mean, that's right, too. You too have a responsibility in this regard, because there are still a number of thousands of old Austrians with their families living in the area of Marburg, in the former Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a moral responsibility for these old Austrians, and it would therefore be only right and cheap if those who are constantly talking about human rights and democracy once again, in the negotiations with Slovenia, gave up the courage to say: We expect that, if Austria is to say yes to Slovenia's accession, these discriminatory laws will be lifted for the first time, so that there can be an orderly, open basis for discussion with a possible new EU Member State. This is the expectation we have. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that we are in a process in which not all of us can immediately put all the concepts on the table and say, we know how it will go 100%. And I have therefore asked a few questions here because we are liberals here also in this process of thinking and discussion, in which we do not want to make the mistake to say: We know a hundred percent of what it is all about, so there must be no deviations from our ideas. We do not, but we have targets, and these targets are: A Europe to which the Austrian people have said to a considerable extent is now a Europe that we have to shape, even though we have taken a different position in the vote. But it is of course that we respect the outcome and that we are now making our contribution to make the best of what the Austrians have decided. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, the philosophy behind it can only be that we want to have a Europe of the Fatherlands, that we want a Europe in which the nations, including Austria, do not go down, but play an important role. That is, the question of subsidiarity, the question of decentralisation, the question of federalism will be a very essential one. But in particular, the question of the participation of the peoples of Europe in these future issues will be an essential one. Therefore, the appeal in the field of monetary union to make the decision with the population – and not against the population. You can say that's all with the vote on 12. In June 1994 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of But you don't believe that yourself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These were the promises.]] This dimension, which has been packed with it, cannot really be subordinated to the citizen. But it would be necessary, as did France, as Denmark, to take as important steps as the Schilling task is, of course, to make a clear decision on the part of the Austrian population. Then there is a wide, open discussion, then there is the government's obligation to put a coherent concept on the table, and then there is the security for the population to say: Yes, we have decided from free pieces to go this or that way. However, I think it would be wrong to say now that you have everything on the 12th. You have already decided on June, so you have lost your right, you no longer have to talk, and in the future only some ministers in Austria and some bureaucrats in Brussels decide what will happen to your schilling, your savings, your currency. – This is not the Europe we want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why our appeal, ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Then this is also a way that we can support. – Everything else will be equipped with our massive resistance!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20140	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20161	Mr President. High house! If we want to deal with the important issue of Austrian policy in the field of Europe in dialogue, as it is always demanded, then I think we should do so in a differentiated way. Mr Haider to address some of your arguments: They have said that the bureaucracy in Brussels is constantly growing; we have to decentralize, because that is unreasonable for the citizen. – Five minutes later, you said: Social policy, labour market policy must be defined in Brussels. Let's see what we're doing. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I really didn't say that!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true! In Austria this is supposed to happen!]] If it is said so, you will be able to read it in the minutes. That's on the same line you often said outside, that was forced by opponents: [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You didn't understand me!]] Finally, the EU must make its order in the former Yugoslavia! She's weak, she doesn't make any order. At the same time, it has been warned that the EU will receive some additional political competence. The EU could not even send a policeman down, how can it make order? One cannot, on the one hand, criticize the weakness of an organization, a political architecture that is slowly building up, slowly growing because it is growing democratically, and at the same time demand that it make order everywhere where the others fail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why is it that the public is so skeptical of political statements in general? The tendency in the government sector is often so to praise everything you do and not to see the weaknesses. In the opposition, it is common to downplay everything the government does. This is a style that can be rejected. You deal with the issue of European integration in your dialectically. You mentioned the farmers again. I took this with me: Since its membership in the European Union, we have for the first time sold 500 000 tonnes of cereals, 200 000 tonnes of milk, 10 000 tonnes of pigmeat and 1 500 tonnes of butter on the Italian market. For four of these five products, the Italian market was closed. Now it would be wrong not to say that we have at the same time lost market shares elsewhere – in Germany, for example – but something good comes out under the line. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 4,000 jobs have been lost in the food industry!]] I am convinced that the balance sheet will also be a good one for the European Union – we must have the courage to say what we have gained, what we have lost due to the loss of friction – because we are able to shape integration politically, so that there will never be a national war again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Call me a single economic area in the form of a free trade zone, a customs union or similar constructions, where after ten years the economic performance, employment, income were worse than before. For a long time, the performance of a large market is still greater in the up and down – including the EU – than that of a small market that shuts down. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The COMECON has arrived!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: When the eastern block dissolves, the COMECON also dissolves!]] COMECON has not been a free trade zone. I beg you! It was not a free trade zone, it was not a customs union. Mr Haider! COMECON was a regulated market. They could not export them to the Soviet Union free of Poland. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: COMECON has resolved for political, not economic reasons!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: For internal economic reasons of these countries!]] So please: COMECON, the example of a central administrative economy in individual countries, with the EU or with the common market, is a delicate one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm not here to allow you or not to allow anything. The opposition should refer to the bad points. It must exert pressure, but not in the form of a constant questioning of everything. They say we need a citizens' Europe. The citizens have opted for what was presented to them by 66 percent, two thirds. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Have I recognized this today or not?]] Yes! But then you must also acknowledge that they have decided on monetary union. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You said the schilling remains!]] Monetary union is part of the Maastricht Treaty. [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler.]] I say the following to you on monetary union: Monetary union is currently the only project of a large dimension that has a chance to be realized. If monetary union were not to be implemented, it would be a setback which is not only one of the many crises that ultimately led to success, but would call much more into question. I'll tell you: I will do everything – and I support the entire federal government most concretely – as before the 12. In June, monetary union will be a reality. If you want a strong schilling, you must go into monetary union. You say you want a strong schilling, where Austria remains out with the weak currencies. - That's not serious! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They say there are certain conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! We have set up conditions that are difficult to fulfil because we want to keep the strong currencies. That is clear. Only a certain government debt is allowed, only a certain minimum rate of inflation, only a certain variation in monetary rates. There are five hard conditions for this. It is only about a flexible Europe, about a Europe of different speeds. This is nothing new, Mr Haider. You're 30 years back. We have a Europe of different speeds for 30 years. There is a monetary union between Luxembourg and Belgium, there is an economic union between Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium. The Economic Union was far from there for the rest of the European Union. There are now certain social effects, not in Denmark and England. I'm in favour of taking everyone on the train as possible. But whoever does not want – that is democratic – he must stay behind; he will already strive to comply. Austria is not oriented by the light, cheap standard. This would result in everyone having to be inside. We focus on the high standard. This is also the case with the currency. That's why I'm convinced that despite the difficulties – it's going to be speculation on 1st. In January 1999, especially against the weak currencies, this monetary union will be realized, because it will at last make us much more competitive against economic areas such as Canada, the United States, East Asia and the Pacific. And because – I say that – we are also forced to work together – we are in the weaker construction – more economic policy. Some have criticized: How can monetary union work without a common economic policy? I'm convinced: If we realize monetary union, we are a step closer to the irreversibility of European integration in the form of a political union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also a political project. I would like to say very clearly: One must call things by name in certain times. Those who are in favour of a strong schilling will have to act with these conditions for monetary union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! If you are in danger of not going along with this, you must also risk that the schilling will remain in the weak currencies, being handled speculatively. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Swiss franc! Is it weak, too?]] That's right! Just yesterday or yesterday, Switzerland declared that it will have to go into the currency bank because the franc is too weak. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's certainly not true!]] I will send you this statement from the Swiss Federal Government tomorrow. The Swiss franc is too weak to stand against a common monetary union and a common currency in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't want to act like you. You said we're not right everywhere. We're gonna be missing, you could hear. You already laid the carpet again, then you say: We liberals were not so superlative that we wanted to keep right everywhere. I would like to say very clearly to you: In the last few days, Switzerland has announced that the franc cannot be freely fluctual in the area if there is a common European currency. This is what Switzerland says with the Frank, which is even more powerful than our Schilling. Here's the latte up. Here's only one way: The way to go determinedly – or to experience a great defeat. I said very clearly: It is also important to see the final political goal. Of course, the large market costs loss of friction, it brings more competitiveness. I can understand that some farmers are angry. He had very little to do with bureaucracy so far. Now a whole bunch of documents come from Brussels, which he must complete. That's annoying her. So far, a farmer has not been employed. But it has been clear that the billions who have disappeared into dark channels must be shown to those who have the right to do so – and not those who are "outside". That is to say, one must build a minimum of order in this market. At the same time, therefore, one must decentralize wherever it goes. We have always said this: decentralize in Austria and decentralize in Europe. We do it more easily if we have a federal reform. But you also have to tell people: The changeover costs something, that is, effort. But the Austrians will do just as well and have success, as has been the case so far. There are always those who say: We can't, we can't do that; they see everything negative. The spirit that refuses everything!, he lives partly too strong in us. We also have strong sides. Let's not get this anywhere in Europe. This is about more than any election won. It is about the existential question of whether we share equal rights in Europe, whether we ensure peace – or whether we have to go along with it and then beg to negotiate with the Great again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We're inside!]] Yes, and we should use it, Mr Stadler! [[Abg. May. Stadler: We make the most of it! We just said that!]] Then let's use it. The Austrians have shown what they can do! They have also built the conditions for future success. I'm not quoting the predictions you made before the 12. June 1994, how catastrophic this will be. You don't talk about these things anymore. We are in the EU, so let us take advantage of the opportunities! I believe that if we have the positive attitude with which we are taking before the 12. We will also be able to do so again in June 1994. I have an incredibly great faith in our country. This will also be true in the area of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two brief comments, as the environment absolutely needs this commonness. It is not true that everything looks like glory and understanding: There are more conflicts than ten years ago: Balkans, Chechnya, Caucasus and also latent in the Danube countries. If you listen to what these neighbors sometimes say about the minority, what the minority says about the majority, then it is partly a language of the 1930s. Everything must therefore be done to ensure that the European Union remains and is getting even stronger at the point of crystallisation of European security. There is no alternative to the united Europe as the new conflicts and new chaos. [[Acclaim with the ÖVP, SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Let's get ready. You can still do anything better, even what before the 12. It was made June 1994, and what is now being done. But you can also play and miss opportunities. I should like to remind you that we were lucky and that the government had a sense of this in 1955 when the State Treaty was signed and neutrality was decided. It was a coincidence that people had a sense of it; a year later it would not have gone. After the uprising in Hungary, we would never have received the State Treaty more than the Russians who discovered the Soviets that 2 million citizens could run into a free country that the Democrats could get away from Hungary. We didn't get him anymore. We have also been lucky with South Tyrol. ==References== ==References====External links== July the Italian government took place without Andreotti, without Gianni De Michelis; there would have been no more chance for the package. It could have been the same with Europe. However, enlargement is very much supported by all of us. You, too, have made a positive statement, the government is positive, and I can only support it massively. But the fairness demands to say that it may take longer than we wish, than our neighbors wish. Should we perhaps have been able to do so only in 2020 and bring about accession to the difficulties these countries face due to their communist heritage? I'll tell you: No difficulty could have been so great that I did not think the objective was right. Because of this outstanding objective, respect for one another and peace in Europe, I am in favour of it. With this commitment, we can also do positive things and succeed in the field of ecology – transport policy, medium-sized policy if we want. [[Acclaim with the ÖVP, SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I do not want to talk in detail about security policy, this will take a very long time. I said that monetary union is the only big project that has a chance to be realized. If it doesn't get through despite difficulties, it's a big setback. Ladies and gentlemen! Has it taught us Yugoslavia, the broken Yugoslavia, what can happen today? Who would have thought it possible 20 years ago, what is happening in front of the public? We are no longer in a situation where we can say that security can be guaranteed by ourselves. We must guarantee security together. We have taken a careful course here, but we should be consistent with it. Nor should we constantly talk about the European security architecture that we want, which is only intended to avoid a specific statement. No one will believe that an additional organization will be established. With the CSCE, now called OSCE, we have enough contact points with NATO and with the Western European Union. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your government partner, I believe!]] I'll deal with him later. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you, you shouldn't be provoking here, but you should say one thing very clearly: It is not a question of whether we belong to NATO, the Western European Union or the CSCE, as it develops, or whether we maintain neutrality, but rather whether we find a mode that guarantees the security of this country. That's the goal. I'm almost right to guarantee security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will only receive the security with a very realistic course. We are therefore right to seek membership of Austria in the Western European Union, which has been said very clearly by the ÖVP. I welcome the fact that the Coalition Agreement speaks of talking about it in two years' time. A coalition also requires its price; I think it could go faster, but the way is right, the direction is right. We need to know that many are only able to join the Western European Union if we also join NATO, and this must be said once again. But we must not let ourselves be prevented from calling for impossibility, Mr Haider, and we must not proceed too slowly because we are under arrest in diplomacy and politics some old thinking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not solve the international problems alone. I would like to see a situation where conflicts can be resolved without military means. Many have believed – an illusion – that they can solve the conflict in Yugoslavia alone with diplomacy and politics. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No military solution! Those who have said this should consider their responsibilities. At least 8,000 people died in Srebrenica, and thousands of women have been raped. And if NATO had not intervened with America – I would like to thank the Americans – with military means, as the UN provides, the next goal would have been Bihac, the Northeast Slave. There would have been thousands of people murdered again, there would have been a large-serbia, and Bosnia would have disappeared. I think that's a lesson we should take into account. We need a vision of peace in Europe. We need to know when there are setbacks, we have to do concrete things. If we both keep in a balanced position, the long-term goal, the vision, the belief in a specific goal and the concrete work, then we will lead Austria into an even more integrated Europe, where we have already taken a foothold and take a strong position there. It will also be true that Europe is a new name for peace, and that is the main objective to be subordinated to the other.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20477	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20498	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The last sentence of Mr Mock, who clearly defined the central objective of our foreign policy, but above all European policy, is certainly a common basis for all political groups. In addition, it is true that Europe's policy, which is at the heart of this foreign policy debate, which is quite rightly, is a highly controversial matter, because the European Union, European integration, is too controversial a political process, but it is inevitable and not only in the interests of the whole continent and its peace order, but also in the interest of our Republic of Austria. And this must be put at the forefront of this debate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are, of course, a number of criticisms that must be addressed to the government in this context. First: This beautiful picture of the great objectives of Europe's policy is, of course, being contrasted by day-to-day practice just at the beginning of this legislative period. For example, we need only look at this continuing craft industry within the Federal Government, which makes it so clear that we are basically dealing with two parts of the government in foreign policy. And for this reason, we have had to experience this kind of skill again, and the creation of the State Secretariat was certainly not useful either. Secondly, we have seen – and this is a very serious point that we have to address openly – that this Federal Government does not speak a common language on central issues of foreign and security policy, especially in the latter, and here it is diametrically apart. Thirdly, I have the impression, above all with regard to the German Government's document, that many things are not being carried together and that the positions are therefore dirty and open to the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference. As the last, very important criticism, I believe that the Federal Government is also not free of opportunism in foreign policy when it comes to fundamental, freedom and human rights. I refer in particular to the recognition policy towards the rest of Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we note that foreign policy and, in particular, European policy is one to be worked out, one which is in the river and in which there are controversies. It is only necessary to express it openly and must not act as if these differences were not present. Federal Minister! Even if foreign policy is a bleak matter for Parliament, it is very crucial for the public that we carry out these discussions on it objectively but openly. This would be much more useful than the re-broken propaganda wave announced by the government. An open and objective debate would be much more valuable for the public and for our citizens, who will vote for their representatives in the European Parliament for the first time in autumn. They will not get rid of the suspicion that it is government propaganda. Allow a very open and controversial discussion about these things! They are controversial, and in a democratic, pluralist system the discussion, the debate is the basis for a common policy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider spoke of a downturn in mood, which will certainly be true. The economic, social and also security conditions are such that the policy of this continent must be very dissatisfied with the policies of the European Union. It is clear that we must say that openly. But the most important thing in this context, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are getting away from this beautiful-weather philosophy, which dates back to the time of the referendum, when Europe and the European Union were just about to be seen as a political slaring country, and not just the political slaring country, as if by joining the European Union, the problems would be solved by themselves. Don't do that! We know exactly that the European Union is a very normal political body, which is there to solve problems and which, of course, is indispensable in this function, but we also know that things are just as controversial in national policy as they are here. There are contentious discussions, there are, of course, strategies for the enforcement of interests, but at the end of the day, we must be clear that this European Union is the only and sensible political framework for this continent, for all the political areas – from security and peace policy down to ecology, to social issues – through which we have the opportunity to actually solve the immense problems that we have everywhere. And that is the decisive factor of European integration and of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] From this point of view, I would like to deal with the specific Austrian EU policy and I would like to take two examples that are symptomatic for me and show that we remain in our European awareness. The two examples, which have immensely excited Austrians, are the examples of toll and anonymous savings books. They are, therefore, so typical of me, because they generate emotions first and because they show, secondly, how wrong it would be to believe that there is something that can be achieved by national measures. In the matter of tolls, which, like all that is related to driving cars, is immensely excited by the Austrians, it is quite clear that two things must happen: Firstly, there is a need for a pan-European transport policy, and I would add that one which is based on ecological considerations, although I know that we are far from it. But that is the policy of the European Union, and it should be our concern and motive that we move things where they are correct in our view. It will take a long time for the European Union to move in these things because of the fact that there are, of course, massive conflicting interests. A completely clear thing! Secondly, it must be added that transport costs are essential. The third point is that there must, of course, be distributions of costs across Europe. That's the decisive thing. And now we can fight about what would be the most reasonable system, but we must not ignore this pan-European perspective, and we must not sometimes give the impression, well, it's wonderful, we're just doing it this way, we're insulating this country with this or that measure. – This is of no use because we are very dependent on the pan-European conditions and are not allowed to fall back into an "island-state thinking" and say: Get in the street, we won't let anything in! – With the bells I mean symbolic blocking measures, which some imagine. – This is a very interesting example for me. The example, perhaps even more familiar, is that of anonymous savings books. What has not been pointed out: the Austrian saving culture, the mentality that cannot be taken away from the people. The terrible things that the Austrians experienced after two World Wars with their savings books were painted on the wall and so on. The Federal Government has said that it should not be touched, and it is also completely wrong to be able to wash black money with it. I remember – it was a few months ago – that the largest bank in Austria "has brought together" half a billion schillings – at least for a day – by their big employees. This was a considerable total and one has tried to pursue a strange saving and banking policy with individual measures. So this is going to be a little bit. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: This is a good example because they flew up immediately and have immortally barked!]] It may be, but I do not think that the Mafiosi will send 500 people away, but they will make smaller amounts of money or extend it to a longer period of time. But I am not concerned at all with such details, but I am concerned that we are again very clear about the objectives: The focus must be on our pan-European and therefore also Austrian interest in combating this crime. And I think that we could do away with a special Austrian saving culture in this consideration of values. This will be possible with a view to this common objective. I say this in the knowledge that many believe that almost all Austrians are at the heart of this austerity policy, but it is about the political objectives that we need to keep in mind and for which we need a pan-European perspective. An interesting example in this context was the link between the Austrian Commissioner – or Commissioner – both names were actually not very popular to me – Fischler. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Say "Commission member"!]] - You're right: Commissioner! In its behaviour on these two issues, it has been found that thinking in Austria, up to the highest political ranks, would be said to have remained with regard to European integration, with regard to the structure of the European Union and the Republic of Austria. Commissioner Fischler dared to criticise Austria in this capacity. Well, that's where it went: Incredible! – It was up to the margins of the fatherly betrayal that he dared to do so. This shows quite clearly that many of us have not yet heard in the political field that it is his job to represent the position of the Commission and the Community, and that he is not what some believe, possibly the ambassador of Austria in Brussels, in the European Union. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not true! He's a patriot!]] – Yes, that’s the shortened way of thinking, colleague Stadler. Now that comes out a little bit. Unfortunately, you are a victim of your own philosophy, which also represents your party chairman, who still believes today that the real European model would be the Europe of the fatherlands. - An old hat, 40 years old. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The reformed party program! Did you write old hats in the party program? That's an old hat?]] And thank God, Mr Stadler, were those who have recently quoted your party observer on television, namely de Gaulle and Adenauer, those who have taken out of the way, out of this deadlock of the Europe of the Fatherlands. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] This is not in the programme, my friend, but is clearly the willingness of Austria to integrate itself Europeanally. And that's not the false ideology of the "Europe of the Fatherlands". This is a very crucial point. Let's talk about it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is experienced past treatment!]] Perhaps Mr Haider has the problem because he depends on concepts that are 40 years old and are really obsolete. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An old brother's brother!]] No, that's not a brother's brother, because we're not brothers, dear friend. We have clear different positions. This is a point where we differ so clearly and effectively. The Freedom Party – as one hears now – makes a very crucial mistake in thinking, namely that it still believes that national policies can solve the problems. This is hidden behind the tag "Europe of the Fatherlands". This is a mistake, because we know: That's exactly what we've had. I wonder how you want to solve the environmental, security, economic, social and traffic problems when each European State puts its immediate self-interest on the shield as the only measure of its political behaviour. That's a step back. This is the prevention of further development. This is preventing problems from being solved. – And that is the difference we have from the Liberal Forum and the Freeman. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your party program is down!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Revisionist!]] Yes, "Revisionist" is a good term, it's really useful. If you realize that something is going wrong and changing your mind, it is beneficial and right. The insistence or the relapse of falling back on archival models for purely opportunistic reasons – perhaps there and there for populist reasons – is not a future perspective, a friend! Ladies and gentlemen! It's quite logical: A party that has had a very clear line in Europe's policy, and I would say that I had a very progressive one, but then it has arrived – away from Europe – of course, has difficulty in positioning itself in the present. That is the bad luck of the Freedom Party – but not my problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You were once my country party owner!]] Yes, I am still wondering today that I have endured with people like you! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] This brings us back to concrete government policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You drove around with the moped when you didn't have a driver's license yet!]] Yeah, yeah. Federal Minister! This brings back to concrete government policy. I have already mentioned this problem of competence within the government. I really think it's a mistake, how this dispute happened and how it looked at the end. I would still have understood if a federal government – even if it is different from one party to the other – acted jointly in Europe's policy, jointly designed it and did not choose the people in party political terms. But how'd it go? – Unfortunately – because the Chancellor was of the opinion that it was not now possible to leave the ÖVP, i.e. the government party 2, the European policy, – the Federal Chancellor's office also had to do something. Now one wanted to save – and out has come State Secretary Schlögl. So this one has all the administrative questions, the civil servants' questions and the sport if I'm not fooled. I think that's particularly funny. And State Secretary Schlögl now has the EU's powers. I think that this branchism is wrong. I would have liked it if, in fact, European policy had been concentrated in the foreign office and I am referring to a State Secretary in this place – and if it had been a social democracy. But it is obvious that distrust in Europe's policy is so great that it is only with two institutional legs – Federal Chancellor and Foreign Office – that one believes that one can get out and achieve peace. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But on two legs you already stand better than on a leg! That's a life experience!]] Yes, yes, Mr Schieder, but in EU policy I sometimes feel that this is one leg on the toes of the other – and there is pain and uncertainty. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: It was the question: one or two legs?]] It is also evident in the statement of Government that two sides, ladies and gentlemen – there is much in the Government Declaration, important issues that have been dealt with half a page – are needed in order to secure this government and the difficult coordination mechanisms in terms of foreign and EU policy. So deep is distrust, and so it must be perplexed that such a thing, for example, Mr Arbitrators, is found in the Government Declaration, something of course: [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's why you wanted the third leg!]] Basic decisions concerning Austrian EU policy are taken by the Federal Government at the joint request of Federal Chancellor and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Is that bad?]] The procedure must be determined. Both have to make the request, as if it were not a government. A government makes a policy, and in EU policy you would make a common position. – No, you have to write in extra: One alone can't! Furthermore, there is such a glorious thing as: The directions of the department to the Permanent Representation in Brussels in routine matters are given directly by copy to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Federal Chancellor's Office et cetera. Extra, it was necessary, as it were, to regulate the bureaucratic path of paperls in routine matters. – So deep is the distrust between the two exponents of EU policy. It speaks a spoken language, and, accordingly, the specific policy also looks like. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, no, there's so much paper, Mr. Col. Frischenschlager!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He's already a little right! But he wanted to be the third!]] Federal Minister! It is now not the time to address the position of Austria in the field of Intergovernmental Conference. I would just like to address a few essential things. First of all, it seems to me that something is not happening, that newspapers can rightfully write that Austria would have rejected very concrete opportunities in the EU. It hurts me when the "Press" of mid-December 1995 can titles: "EU balance sheet for 1995" – this concerns the Austrian balance sheet: "3 billion schilling is giving away." Not that the world is falling down, but these errors suggest that others who specifically link their exchange mentality with EU policy can say: Due to the failure of this federal government, Austria has lost 3 billion schillings. One must find completely worthless and objective: Such reports are, of course, a disaster. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] No, I don't think so, but then it would be a nice example again, Mr. Federal Minister, because after all, State Secretary Schlögl had to say a few times later – again a headline, this time from the "standard": "Lock: Haven't used up EU pot to the full." [[Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mr. Col., not the Federal Government! These are projects in Vienna and the regions!]] Federal Minister! In any case, my impression is that opportunities have not been used or have not been fully used. That's something you can't move away like that, because the people who write it aren't very low. Second criticism: Of course, it is painful when Austrian Party Policy practices in personnel policy are constantly creating headlines that are not very funny, for example, in connection with the Head of the Commission's Mission here in Vienna, when party political aspects become known, as I even believe it is an unsituation to export Austrian practices – especially in personnel policy, also in the case of the social partnership institutions; I only remember the huge mission in Brussels – from Austria to the European level. These are things that really bother me. Our criticism focuses on the fact that, as far as the Intergovernmental Conference is concerned, you do not have a uniform line in substance. I expressly refer once again to security policy. It is a pity that Austria does not pursue a truly consistent policy on this crucial and perhaps vital issue. It is simply that you – especially your coalition partner SPÖ – continue to focus on neutrality or regard it as the starting point of security policy at European level. This is counterproductive because we need to know that international accession to the European Union does not, at least, maintain any credibility for a lasting neutrality. We must take note of this, and it must also take account of the consequences of security policy. Second point: What I find insufficient in the Austrian positioning would be a consistent representation of human and fundamental rights. I believe that the European Union's own catalogue of fundamental rights would be the key objective. The EMRK is too little for me. In particular, a legal framework at European level would be created in relation to the fundamental rights of the ethnic groups. [[Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mr. Col., that's exactly what I represent!]] Yeah, I just don't find that in your office's papers on the government declaration. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: It's been a word report! It's on schedule!]] Yes, it is beautiful, but you alone are not the Federal Government; I am talking about the entire government. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Please don't make any calls from my speaking time!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have an opinion, I have an opinion; that is what you do not have. The decisive thing is that the general government should take the positioning. There's a lot of things inside that I like, it's not like that. Third point: EU enlargement. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Solidarity with Barmüller!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: The barmüller is already complaining!]] Yeah, yeah, it's right. Let that not be your concern, but that's ours. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: He doesn't believe it! We're just the mediator!]] Third point: EU enlargement. [[Abg. Koppler: This is your problem!]] And especially if you keep talking in between, it takes even longer! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – The enlargement and deepening of the EU, ladies and gentlemen, is crucial. It can only happen consistently both. It is also important for me to make it clear that we are in favour of making decisions through majority formations in the European Union. We consider it to be positive, not least because European parliamentarians here at Parliament's polls have told us that this creates a force for argumentation between countries – instead of veto law, which actually means only a "Njet". The last point, which is important to me, Mr Federal Minister, is the consistent follow-up of fundamental, freedom and democracy rights in connection with EU enlargement. It is simply not to say that, in countries such as Slovakia, but also in Croatia, democratic elections are not taken note of by the political powers – as was the case with Slovakia, where the powerful have tried to disapprove of elected Members afterwards, or as in the case of Croatia, where the President is trying to produce a different outcome from the electorate in the capital of that country. It seems very important to me that the Council of Europe, but also the European Union, in these matters, consistently ensure that these countries are measured with European standards – but not because we want to be senior teachers, but simply because this is to become a European standard. This is the main value of the European Union: not only peacekeeping, but this common value base on the ground of fundamental rights in the form of parliamentary democracy and as a security community. We should strive to achieve these objectives together, and we should work together in this House on their development, development and enforcement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20926	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e20950	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider's contribution has also made it clear how the Freedom Party is likely to engage in the European election campaign. I regret that the direction is not: Which people will be best able to enforce in the European Parliament and thus in the EU what Austria wants, but that the direction should be: It focuses on a critical attitude towards the EU – to a certain extent – and uses it, so to speak, as a support rocket for the European election campaign. I regret this attitude, which has been blown through here. – Yesterday, the speakers of the liberals very often reminded the government bank and, above all, the Federal Minister of Justice of the admonition words of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. There seems to be a very selective perception in the Freedom Party of the words of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, because in the direction of FPÖ, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has directed words specifically on the question of EU and European policy, and there is the task of starting with himself if one is already concerned about the reminders of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. If some of the representatives of the FPÖ take the words "broom" and "order" into their mouths very often – a picture that I don't like so well – but if you take your brooms into your hands continuously, you should also come at your own door, where it is in place. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In terms of content, I would like to point out that the comparison, which Haider draws, is: What was it like in certain sectors before accession to the EU, and how does it look now?, of course, one that may be politically permissible, but in terms of content is not correct, for if one really wants to compare in this field, it is of course the one that is most difficult to draw: It is not possible to compare Austria in 1996 with Austria in the EU at the beginning of the 1990s, although even this comparison, as demonstrated by Mr Mock's speech, is not as bad. To compare would be – this is also the real question that asks itself –: What is Austria's view of Austria in 1996 in relation to Austria, which would be in a certain form if it were not in the EU in 1996. That's the real question! What effect would all the developments have had on our country if we were not in the EU? – This is what we need to communicate to the citizen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It was a development that made any country difficult. But by joining the EU it is much better to do, it will be far more positive for the future than if we are outside now. And that is exactly what Switzerland has recognized and why it will review its position in the next few years. [[Abg. But you have been saying this for years, Mr. Meisinger.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's what you mean! That's your personal opinion!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] – Mr Commissioner, I am not really overstated, but you could have saved this debut on the issues of foreign policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question of Jajce, which was also tailor-made: I believe that our relations with Slovenia are so good that we should indeed discuss this question bilaterally with Slovenia. Even if we do not see the question as black and white as Mr Haider did, we can certainly discuss such a problem between two countries. In our view, however, it would be wrong to make this one of the prerequisites for supporting EU accession. I also regret the attitude taken by Italy in this regard. But the outcome of the election in Italy is also pleased for other reasons. Because it is simply good for Austria that the legal alliance with post-fascists has not succeeded in gaining the power in Italy, and because such a victory is also seen as a real danger by the German-speaking majority in South Tyrol, I am therefore delighted with this result. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I hope that there will be a new attitude on the issue of Slovenia and the EU. As far as the euro is concerned, I am delighted that fear can now be startled by the people who have savings books. This has been done here today by Mr Haider in a way that is not loud, but hidden, but so that it scares people who have a savings book. And I find that particularly objectionable. But what's the worst thing about it: Now, because it fits him in for the European elections, he is suddenly for a hard shilling. Last year, when there were concerns in certain industrial circles about whether Austria's hard currency policy is correct, he immediately represented the opposite in the "Industriemagazin", issue 2/95, expressly asking for a softer schilling. Depending on the audience, depending on the mouth he speaks, he formulates his arguments. And this is a policy that should guide itself, especially on such essential issues. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to say a word on the statements made by Mr Mock. Most of what he has said here is to be supported, and I would also like to say personally that it was impressive, Mr Mock, to see from this speech how important great, personal experience in politics is, such as the experience of state treaty, South Tyrol and all that you personally create is one, and how good it is for politics when there are people with great personal experience. In a point where we did not agree, however, I also felt that this applies to all of us – that great experience, so important to politics, is also dangerous, namely that the point of renewal is underestimated. It is not only because of this that it is important that people with experience in bodies – I say again: this applies to every one of us – also blows fresh wind from time to time, that people who make the renewal work more difficult make the sense of opportunity more effective, as Musil put it, than the sense of reality they have gained with their experience. This will also apply to the future of Europe. If all those who want something more than just the continuation of the existing one are dismissed as illusionists, if only one wants to know more about what one knows from the great experience that it will be fulfilled if one no longer wants to, if one no longer wants, then one will no longer be reached. That is why I am very much in favour, even if one considers it unlikely, of bringing into European politics the notions of something more than the status quo, of a security that is more than just defence policy, and of a Europe that is one day based on a treaty on law and order that guarantees peace, not just defence, but also a new dimension in people's living together. Such a Europe – whether or not there is this term or not – will be in its essence what Austria is, in fact, neutral in the good sense of the word, that it does not interfere anywhere and only ensures that law and order and law apply, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! However, I would also like to address some other questions. I do not wish to forget thanking you for your cooperation between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and your place of business and the officials. I would also like to point out that where this cooperation has also taken place unorthodox, as in the rewording of the provisions on the Diplomatic Academy, in which officials have introduced their ideas and have brought their ideas to Members, it has led to very good results, so that the dialogue of good relations should be almost a model for future working methods. Thank you very much for this good cooperation. However, I would also like to say something about the responsibilities and abroad, which my colleague Mr Frischenschlager has done. I really do not want to reheat the coalition gap in the recording of the government programme or start again over a rear door. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] I say it even more clearly: Even if the question of responsibilities was resolved with this result, as I personally did not wish to do – I accept it, of course, even if I was not entirely satisfied for the reason – then it may be a good thing that you can now make the necessary changes to be made in the foreign office in the coming years, without others from your own ranks perhaps making the accusation that you had thereby given in to the socialists. It is important – I suppose you yourself know – that clarifications and changes are made in some areas. If you assume from the fiction that the foreign office controls all external relations – this Quasimonopol consists in the preparation of the publishing work, in writing with abroad – if too much labour is committed to maintaining this formal right, then one day the task of the foreign office will suffer even more. It will be necessary – in the interests of the Foreign Office – to think together about it, especially with regard to the EU, how we can better organise it and new ones. I am glad when, as has been said, this is no longer subject to the question of red or black in government negotiations, but when factual arguments count. And I am glad that many officials of the Foreign Office think about it themselves, because it is about their own service, about their own content. I have also read contributions with great interest, such as from the envoy Trauttmansdorff in an Austrian journal. In this journal was a contribution that was very interesting. It showed the possibilities of coming to a cooperative in the foreign office from the hierarchical form of organization. He proposes that the funds of Public Diplomacy be used more strongly for the Foreign Office itself, and that we also deal with the question of what we are leaving the EU and what we want to do more nationally – also as a foreign country. I believe that the question of who does what in external relations is one that can be viewed as an objective policy in the interests of our country and not as a political one. I would like to offer, since Parliament too has a lot of external relations, that we discuss this on an objective basis on a calm basis – solved by this is a question for coalition formation or not, separated from the political debate, so that foreign policy and the appearance of Austria can be better organized and the interests of our country can be better enforced in the concert of the other States and international organisations. As far as foreign policy is concerned, what this country wants, what is necessary for its citizens, what it has in terms of objectives, can be organised and achieved as best it can. I would like to say something about another question. Mr Frischenschlager referred to the question of the future of the Council of Europe and the resumptions a few days ago, including during the celebrations on "40 years of Austria" in the Council of Europe. At this very hour – I will go back to Strasbourg in the afternoon – the debate will take place in the Council of Europe on Croatia’s reception in Strasbourg. The question is: Was it right to include some countries, or is it so, as some fear, that Russia's reception was a pan, a mistake, and there is a concern that further mistakes are now being made with Croatia and others? I personally believe that this policy, which has been re-established in the Council of Europe, is legitimate and reasonable. It is reasonable not to say any more that every state is waiting for itself, on its own initiative, to meet all the criteria that the Council of Europe considers to be democratic and human rights. So one does not wait for the own self-employed development of a new state, but from a certain standard one helps, exerts pressure, so that within a certain period of time in which this State is already in the Council of Europe, it is then reached together. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Does that apply to Croatia? Because the question of the differences in standards...!]] I shall come back to this question in a moment. So, with democracy in these states, it's supposed to be the way the fisherman went with the Lorelei: Half of it pulled him down, half he sank. – That is how it should develop, and I consider this procedure to be a good consideration. Mr. Khol! If you are serious about this and do not want to compensate for the "error of Russia" with another mistake, but confess to the new procedure, then the logical consequence has to be, even with Yugoslavia, to be for the reception of Croatia and to set conditions for it. – That is why I represented this for the Socialists in the Council of Europe yesterday. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Only one thing will not go, namely that we choose this new path and then leave us the courage if this accompanying control or sanctions must take place. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Against Russia! Against Russia and Croatia!]] That's my concern. We do not even have the courage to say to the Council of Europe's Council of Ministers, Mr Federal Minister, because a non-democratic electoral law has been passed in Albania, although there is a danger that there will be a presidential coup in Moldova. One does not even have the courage to use this new procedure in order to say to a state: Until here, but no further! Fill up what you promised! – One does not have the courage in Albania and Moldova, and everyone is wondering if one will have it in Russia if one does not have the courage in smaller countries. Therefore, the solution can only be the honest but difficult way: This policy of democracy-enforcement in the Council of Europe continues by resumption, at the same time critical assistance, ongoing observation and action, if someone does not fulfill what he has promised, even if it is a neighbouring country, such as Slovakia, for there is also an open question in this regard. It is our request that it is also our request as a parliamentarian to the governments, not because of the good climate of discussion in the Committee of Ministers, Mr Minister, because one ambassador does not want to hurt the other, and because one does not want to destroy the good climate to refrain from telling another state the truth if he violates the principles of the Council of Europe. This applies to Turkey, which applies to many small countries, which may also be true of long-term members one day, and it must also apply to Russia. In the future, a policy, including in the international field, will no longer be supported by secret intentions of diplomacy, but only by the open, transparent, transparent effort to enforce its principles and objectives by legitimate means.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21087	Mrs Kammerlander. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21108	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Schüssel, you've been in office for about a year now. It can be seen that when you took office, you stopped with a course correction in Austrian foreign policy when it came to assessing the events in our neighbouring country, in Exjugoslavia, when it was also about the assessment of the Croatian government on certain issues of democracy and human rights, but also about the assessment of how to deal with the problem of possible recognition of the rest of Yugoslavia in international representations and organizations. Since this – then – impressive start of office of yours can be diagnosed that Austria is more or less represented on the international parquet as well as in the institutions and institutions of the European Union, in any case little or little represented by your person, little is represented by your own initiatives, your own proposals on foreign policy and in total – unfortunately! – has lost weight and importance in international contexts. That is to say, a position, a position that Austria still held long ago than a country, which repeatedly gave up by initiatives, especially peace-making initiatives, this reputation has lost us. It may be that in your frequent burden as a party observer, as vice-channer and as a foreign minister, it may also be that the importance of Austrian foreign policy – and I am very inclined to interpret it in this way – has become another for you by saying: Austria is now a member of the European Union and we are leaning on what the European Union is proposing and are no longer called upon to present independent initiatives. But there is still another and more area than this general one, namely the importance that Austria has with its neighbouring countries, especially in the countries of the former East, Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. This is particularly true – and this is an area that is actually close to you – of the importance of economic cooperation and also of the position of Austria in the general political sense. If you look at the data and the course since the opening, since 1989, you can see that Austria has lost. It has lost its rank in economic relations, but also in concrete measures. However, it has also lost as far as its overall importance, i.e. its input, Austrian policy on many issues concerning these countries is concerned. If we look a little further, if we look at Germany, I must say that foreign policy can only be characterized by the words that Austria is once again beginning to lean more and more towards Germany's foreign policy, as is the "great brother", and is trying rather to do the initiatives of the Germans rather than set its own accents. Minister! However, they have also remained guilty of clear answers to the questions of the European Union. They have remained guilty of a clear answer to the question of enlargement of the East, because it is not likely that it can be the recipe for enlargement of the East – regardless of the consequences that would arise within the European Union, which questions arise, which questions arise, especially in the context of economic and monetary union, but also in the questions of institutional reform. These answers remain you guilty, these answers you have never given, but you are always very populist for the Easter enlargement. You will remain guilty of the answer to how it is going to take place, as it should then be done in the institutions of the European Union. And you not only owe them to Austria, but you also remain guilty to our neighbouring countries, who put very high expectations in us. But you have also remained guilty of the answers to the ideas of the common foreign and security policy. In this case – and this is an example of this – they always lean on German politics. They agree with what you expect from the European Union. There are few or not very strong, meaningful positions in Austria at the Intergovernmental Conference. For to open the whole palette, to present it on a tablet and to say that there is NATO, the Western European Union and the OSCE, something will get out of it, you will see how these talks are going at the Intergovernmental Conference is too little. I welcome the words of your predecessor, because he has at least put a clear opinion. She's not my opinion, but it's a clear attitude, a clear opinion when he says: Accession to NATO, accession to the Western European Union, and we do not expect us to build a new structure where there are so many already. . You could also represent the attitude taken by some of the Social Democrats by some Members, who say that the OSCE is an important organisation, which is worth upgrading. – But there is no clear answer to these questions, Mr Minister. I would like to address what Mr Mock said in his remarks. If you say that you should not resort to the old political patterns, I have understood this in connection with your speech in such a way that you have meant that you should not stick to neutrality, because it is an old political pattern and has become obsolete. – That was at least my understanding that I gained in connection with your speech. I can give you the answer that it is also old political patterns that always adhere to military solutions and military strategies. I would then, in general, also think that these old policies should not be adhered to. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: Right!]] If you say, Mr Dr. Mock, that it is an illusion that only diplomacy conflicts are resolved, I think that is right if you start diplomacy at the moment when the disaster has already occurred. They brought the example of Srbrenica. But if diplomacy is started much earlier, even if it is preventive measures to consider political decisions, that is, long before a disaster, then it could very well lead to conflict resolution. But just show me one case, just one case where military intervention has led to solutions. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Balkan!]] Military intervention has also led to no solutions in the Balkans. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Sure!]] There is now a ceasefire, but there is no solution to the political problem. There is a contract, and we are now reading almost daily in the newspapers how difficult it is to comply with this contract. What cannot, of course, be taken into account in the case of measures – and the measure was right to bring about a ceasefire – is that the problems have not yet been removed from the world, namely the problems that arise when living together after this terrible war that was waged there. Every expert in this area has been able to predict that it will not be the case that the Serbian people are returning the Muslims, that it will not be the case that even the Croats and the Muslims will live together peacefully. Every profound expert, every profound expert in the situation on the ground have said: Don't make yourself too big a hope They do not expect too much to solve the problem with the ceasefire and with the Dayton agreement. The question still remains as to whether the IFOR troops stay for this year is limited or not. What's going to be after that? We have also discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs the basic attitude taken by Austria when it comes to preventive or democratic measures. But when it comes to the cost of the elections in Bosnia, we are suddenly dependent on donations. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: Stronger Preventive Actions! Only we need to know that we are living in a time when, in the end, means of power are necessary! It's supposed to be the last thing!]] That's right, colleague. What I think is true of is that in the course of history the means of military power have been tried out more often, in the various variants and variations, but only very rarely the means of prevention. This, of course, leads to the conclusion that: There are experiences, and very wide-ranging experiences, as regards the so-called military solution, but there is hardly any experience as to prevention. I mean – with this I want to return to the CFSP, that is, to the common foreign and security policy – that is a good opportunity to stress, to finally secure and say this experience of prevention: First and foremost, it must be prevention, all measures which are not military. The Ultima ratio can be military resources. I have the vision – I still have visions – that this should be a transitional phase. After my vision, it should be possible at some point to resolve conflicts at the level of the political parquet. At least once at the level of the European Union, we should begin to say that we can give up military resources. However, I miss this set of priorities. I miss them in the statements of the Federal Government to the Intergovernmental Conference, and I miss that this clear attitude is generally taken by the Austrian Federal Government on matters of security policy. What are the threat scenarios for the countries of Europe? – As a threat scenario, here again and again are listed: Russia, the Far East, the Middle East. I don't know how far your idea of threat scenarios goes. But what are the needs of these countries, the countries of the former East? What is what Russia needs? Russia faces massive social, economic and democratic problems. In this case, the European Union must find a different answer than giving priority to the construction of a military apparatus. Even when it comes to the threat in the Middle East, even when it comes to the threat, as many see it, through fundamentalism, even when it comes to the threat that exists in the Mediterranean region as a whole, I believe that it is not primarily and primarily by military means that one can respond to these threats, but by political means, with a wide range of opportunities and offers for peace talks. The recent situation in the Middle East has shown that it is only possible with the help of diplomacy to stop aggressions and attacks, both of them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this context, I think it is important that Austria, given its historical and also cultural situation – especially in foreign policy, it is important to see the context and make a connex of its own history, of its own culture – is more intensively concerned with the margins of Europe, namely the very sensitive margins of Europe. Such an area is the entire territory of the former Soviet Union, including today's Russia. Although not from Austria, but from the European Union – if one has followed this with attention – one could see this – has been taken into account by very probably having discussions and taking note of the fact that NATO enlargement without Russia’s involvement in these issues would have been a very dangerous project without obtaining the Russian position. That's what we called for a year ago. I think it would have been an honorable task of Austria, precisely because of the historical and cultural context, to push forward these initiatives massively instead of waiting for what the European Union, the "great brother", the "great roof", is doing in the future, under which one now feels safe. Another area of this kind, which is on the verge of Europe, is Turkey, a country that belongs to Europe, but which is one of all the crisis spots, can be said to be bordering the Middle East, to all the East's crisis spots at all. It has a number of neighbouring countries, where undemocratic states rule until war states, it is a country that is confronted with fundamentalism, it is a country which, however, has a very important history and has influenced European history in a very significant way. I think it would be good for Austria to set its own accents in this case, too, and not to wait for the European Union to decide whether or not to wait for a debate in the Council of Europe – there is still a request from the Socialist Group – or not. It would be good for Austria to set up its own initiatives in this case. What do I mean by that? . That's exactly what my previous speaker, Mr Schieder, has done. I think it is right to make an effort to integrate Turkey into Europe. I don't think I'm going to isolate this country, just this country. However, in the event that we take certain measures when it comes to Turkey's accession to the customs union, if we demand a constitutional change from Turkey and respect for human rights, we must not simply lose sight of these measures after accession to the customs union has taken place. So it cannot be – and I agree entirely with the words of my previous speaker – that whenever specific questions arise, we will always create a large catalogue of what these countries should do to ensure that they respect a minimum standard of democracy and human rights, but then, when they are included, we will always ignore any organization and will not pursue it any more. The fact is that, since Europe's pressure has been removed from Turkey, since Turkey's accession to the customs union, the country's democratic state has again deteriorated, human rights have been massively disregarded and violated. They know the most famous case, that of the writer Yasar Kemal, who was sued again after he had been acquitted on pressure from the European Union last year, under the pressure of the negotiations on the customs union. It is only the most prominent case of hundreds of people and victims who have been charged with the customs union since Turkey's accession, who have been in prison and who have been subjected to torture. I think it is also the task of a single country, such as Austria, not to lose sight of what expectations we had in relation to Turkey at the time, especially in this historical and cultural context. As a member of the European Union, we should also point out, wherever possible, whether in the European Union, whether in the Council of Europe, or in other international bodies, or as a single country in bilateral relations, that membership, in any part of the world, does not mean that it is a free letter for undemocratic states and for respect for human rights. The same applies – in this respect I can keep my remarks short – to the area of Croatia, the same applies to the recognition of the rest of Yugoslavia; this has already been done by my previous speaker. As far as this area of Europe's third edge, this area of ex-Yugoslavia, is concerned, I would just like to draw up an example which I mentioned last year, where I believe that Austria could and can still have done essential things in this historical and cultural context, and that is the example of Macedonia. There is an earlier sub-republic in Ex-Yugoslavia, a country that has taken a peaceful course today, which has made great efforts on the issue of minority policy, which, at its own request, accompanied by the OSCE, has attempted to engage in hard discussions with the Council of Europe. It's clear: Preventive measures, policies should be much more laborious and long-term. So Macedonia has taken this path and has tried to come to a political building that can take it into the future in countless talks about a constitution, a democracy, and so to speak. I have great respect for the efforts of this former part of the Republic, especially if one looks at the development in the other republics, even in Croatia, where there is no freedom of the press, where it is not possible to express his opinion freely without being pressured. I believe that the minimum expected by Austria would be recognition of these efforts in the form of a minimum level of bilateral relations. What do I mean by that? – I consider it unreasonable, not only because of political and diplomatic relations, but also because of the daily situation on the ground that there is no Austrian embassy in Skopje, not even a general consulate, that it is still necessary for the people who need a visa to travel to Albania to the Austrian Embassy in Tirana to obtain a visa. But not only do I consider it unreasonable for these human reasons, but I think that for political reasons it is quite negligent, because it would be a simple and a relative – let us say it – cheap measure to establish at least a minimum level of diplomatic relations there. At this level of preventive, peaceful relations would also be important something which the countries always very much want, for example the conclusion of a cultural agreement, a cultural exchange between these two countries, in order to signal and show how important we are to take such efforts. Finally, let me mention two areas, first of all the role of Austria in international organisations or at international conferences. There is a current example for this. It is currently attending the anti-mine conference in Geneva. It looks like she could work more successfully than she did in Vienna at the time. At least for me, but also for a number of other Austrians, the position of Austria at this conference is completely unclear. Because what the coalition parties have brought back as a request is more than blurry and blurry. We're holding on to this. We support you in giving our approval as the first step towards a ban on all anti-personnel mines. We consider this to be the first step. And to show that we are cooperative that we are not concerned with saying out of a justament that all mines should be banned, we give the consent to it, but then without exceptions, without If and But. So it is simply incorrect, it is blurred and blurry, then to create a list of exceptions when this ban on anti-personnel mines is lifted again, when it is, for example, about mines that have a sufficient amount of metal so that they are discovered by the detector, or when it comes to those mines that are part of the exercise of the Austrian federal army. You have put in place a number of such derogations, and I can only contact you with the President of the Red Cross, a prominent member of the ÖVP, as far as I am aware, Mr Treichl, who complains that, although you have taken up this initiative, which the Red Cross has presented to you in the form of a request, you have actually led this initiative ad absurdly. If a child, if people are affected at all, there is no distinction between an "intelligent" or "dummy" mine, and it is completely indifferent when people are confronted with whether this mine has a certain metal content or not. It is true that it is important to find out that such measures are in principle taken in such a way that mines should be at least as equipped in the future – I think we are only talking more about tank mines in the future – but a general ban on all anti-personnel mines is, in our opinion, the minimum level. Allow me to speak on the further question of tank mines. They obviously do not seem to be clear about this, perhaps you are not aware of how in those countries where Austrian tank mines are also imposed – there are a number of African countries; by the way, the mines are all handled by the company Dynamit, which belongs to the Raiffeisen group. There are countries, such as Mozambique and Uganda, where bandits blaze these mines and use them to make raids on food transports. In front of buses that transport food, but also people, these mines are deposited, and people die of these tank mines. You do not seem to take all of this into account if you think that a ban on human mines has already been done enough. But once again our offer: Yes, as a first step towards a ban on all human mines, but then there must be a general ban on all human mines. It would be a good opportunity for Austria to join a broad, very broad attitude at an international conference and say: We have decided this in our Parliament, and we are now bringing it into this conference as a clear Austrian attitude. Do you have the courage to show a real attitude and, regardless of what other countries, what important countries, what friends countries do, bring a clear attitude as Austrian attitude into a conference and join a broad opinion there? [[Congratulation with the greens and the agglomeration of the agglomeration. Dr. Cap.]] At the end of my remarks on international policy, I refer to development policy. However, I do not want to fall into the mistake of simply calling development policy an international policy, not because it would have been subject to other interests, and I believe that we should distinguish very clearly. I insist that we conduct international policy also according to clear economic interests, commercial interests that Austria has, but then it is international policy and not development policy. Development policy must comply with other criteria, must certainly obey and be subject to very sustainable criteria, sustainable social and environmental criteria. Development policy should be particularly important – and I want to stress this today, because we are in an Intergovernmental Conference, which also provides for it – to take into account coherence, in addition to other political decisions and the further political steps that are being taken. My question is: Does this coherence, which, moreover, requires the European Union to be binding on its own policies, exist in all areas, even in Austria? What are the criteria for granting export credits in Austria? Who assesses the criteria under which export credits are granted and which are attributed to development policy. We know that this is a simple coincidence principle, that you choose it after these loans have been granted and settled, and choose which recipient countries these loans have gone to. There are no criteria for export credits which are consistent with the development policy. However, there are in the future – and there are two current examples in which we can test this so to speak – also coherence with the measures and regulations within the European Union, because there is probably also a contradiction. In the near future, we will have to deal with the chocolate regulation and the banana regulation again, and in both cases we will have to consider whether this coherence exists and whether it is necessary to establish between development policies and commercial and economic interests. What we are calling for is a review of all development policy objectives according to these sustainable social and environmental criteria, which we demand, is a review of all those measures that are included in development policy, namely whether they do not continue to contradict the meaning of this coherence by contradicting a decision taken in Austria of another decision, namely, bilateral development cooperation, and thus ad absurdity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And last but not least, if nobody else does, I would like to point out that, as far as development policy and bilateral cooperation are concerned, you have presented a better budget than last year, but you still have a gap of 100 million schillings in budget excess, and I have the greatest fear, especially after the experience of last year, that this 100 million schillings in budget overrun will not be carried out, that they will only now serve as a calming point, that they will serve as a fig leaf for a savings policy which they do not want to take in the first approach, that they should be a calming waste for the development policy organisations, so that not once again such a cry by the public. But I have the massive fear in this regard, and we will look carefully at the fact that you will really release these 100 million in excess of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21222	Mrs Tichy-Schreder has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21244	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Mrs Kammerlander, I think we will still have enough time to discuss the problem of tretmines in this House, when the request has just been submitted. As far as development aid is concerned, I would like to tell you that we have a committee on development aid, in which we will also discuss it, but I would like to point out that: There are sometimes problems in discussing development aid, because there are the various interests of the various associations of development policy, which are partly diametrically opposed. I would be glad if the various parallel organizations could reach a common view on development aid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Kammerlander, I have the same vision as you that prevention of military conflicts and conflicts can be prevented. But as you yourself have said, You have the vision. I also have the vision, but a vision is not something to implement immediately. We must work on this, and we are happy to take part in this joint work, but we must recognize the reality that military conflicts cannot always be avoided with measures of prevention, with political activity, with diplomacy. That's the problem. We have to work on this, but we can therefore, because it is a vision, not to give up immediately to be militaryly stable – also for security reasons for Europe. I don't know who it was, but a dissident from former Yugoslavia said many, many years ago: If the West believes to be able to give up military deterrence, then it is lost, because only this language is understood there. – And as long as we have not taken this discussion even more widely that more people are confessing to more governments, we must also be militaryly stable and prepared for conflict. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out, however, that you said that Mr Vice-Chanceller, Dr Schüssel, when he took over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had made a course correction. That's not true at all. In foreign policy, the course remains unchanged. There are certainly accent shifts because world policy is also changing; that is clear. That is what every foreign minister has to address. Just because you said that we did not have the desirable relationship with our neighbouring countries, I would like to reply to you: That's where you're wrong! I have here the answer to a parliamentary question by Mr Vice-Chancellor, which concerns the friendly relationship with Croatia. In this he says quite decreed: "Of course, this friendly relationship also leads to the right and obligation for Austria, Croatia to point to shortcomings, shortcomings and insufficient progress in the area of democratisation, human rights, protection of minorities and the like." This has been done by Dr. Schüssel during his visit to Croatia, and this is exactly what he is living in partnership with neighbouring countries: not only to make rules, but to discuss and deal with them. I believe that this should be understood in order to make these states familiar with our thinking, because there are other ideas there and there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards the enlargement of the European Union to include the Central and Eastern European countries, which you have said would only talk about how they are going to be replaced, I can tell you that there are a lot of discussions about this. The Austrian People's Party, the Federal Government, vehemently advocates the enlargement of the European Union. There are ideas about a flexible way of doing this enlargement. Our accession was negotiated in one block with the other countries. And during these joint negotiations, it has already been shown within the European Economic Area that Dr. Schüssel, with his international partners within the EFTA countries, at that time, has acquired the highest recognition for the provision of talks of a wide variety of positions, which has helped us and has facilitated negotiations for accession to the European Union. This is especially important for our neighbouring countries. What are we doing now? We support the neighbouring countries as well as Malta and Cyprus. We agree that after the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, which is likely to end only at the end of 1997, negotiations will also be held with our neighbours. However, we do not want to be negotiated in a block because we recognize the different positions because we recognize that the individual states have different conditions. It is important for the applicants for accession to the European Union that political stability and economic development are consistent. Our task is to point out to them the importance of joining us that the adoption of the acquis communautaire must also be carried out and that economic and political tolerance must be given. We are already pointing this out in various discussions. I think this is important to us for the future. In this way we can support these states: in many discussions, at various levels, in terms of economic relations, in terms of administration et cetera. That is what we are doing and in that we also have the recognition of these states. Whenever you talk to people from our neighbouring countries, you will notice that Austria has the highest recognition in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is part of it. – The second part, why it is important to strengthen Europe, is the international challenge we have, the economic challenge, which is becoming increasingly important externally. The OECD report points out that economic growth in OECD countries will fall by 10.15 percent over the next 10-15 years. Growth in East Asia, on the other hand, will rise. That's what we've got to deal with. Austria has recognised in good time to see Asia as a foreign policy priority; the European Union has also. We'll talk about it. There are individual political groups in East Asia – I do not even want to mention what groups have met – that want to work together economically but politically. And Europe has this political and economic challenge to expect from Austria. Only if we find a way together – including Europe – can we be prepared for this economic and foreign policy challenge in the future. . I know this task in the hands of the Foreign Minister and Deputy Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21338	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Schweitzer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21359	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, former Foreign Minister Dr. Mock stressed that Austria had signed the Treaty and that it had entered into an obligation to participate in European monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen! With the Treaty we signed, we have also accepted the obligation not to introduce our own rules of toll, but here we oppose the provisions contained in the Treaty which we have signed. The same applies to the anonymity of savings books. With the contract we signed, we have given up the anonymity of savings books. However, this Federal Government promises to the population: The anonymity of the savings books will remain. So there is a dissonance here somewhere that would be in need of clarification, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to ask Mr. Dr. Mock why he did not do it in his "successful" negotiations as the Sweden did. I have a paper from the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which clearly and clearly shows that the Swedish have reserved themselves to decide independently in their Parliament whether they will participate in this monetary union or not, gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I quote: "During the accession negotiations, a statement was made by the Swedish Government stating that a final opinion will be delivered on the transition from the second to the third stage." – This was recorded in the negotiating protocol, gentlemen of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "The negotiations also made it clear," said the Swedish "that a final opinion on whether Sweden will participate in the third stage will ultimately be delivered by the Swedish Reichstag." ==References== In October 1995, the Government set up a committee in Sweden to analyse the advantages and disadvantages of Swedish participation in the third stage of EMU, and the results of this analysis will finally be decided. Why can this happen to Sweden? Why can't we Austrians do that, gentlemen? We had bad negotiations! Once again, we have been shown to be ill-negotiated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what is written here on a paper, signed still by Erhard Busek, Schüssels predecessor, and by Franz Vrannitzky? – I quote: "Our country is well prepared for the European Union. In Brussels, the Federal Government has negotiated with great success." – I have shown from the example that this was not the case. – It also says: "We have succeeded in securing the interests of our country in important areas such as neutrality, agriculture, transit, land and soil." Ladies and gentlemen! If we let this happen again today, we see: That's not all that was held there. Mr President, you may be able to make sure that you are a little more calm. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: (who talks with Abg. Dr. Rasinger found) I listen to you anyway!]] But it really bothers me. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (for Abg. Dr. Rasinger) You're one who doesn't stop at the government bank!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== October will be the time to account for what is actually left of these promises, which is really left of the promises of this unprecedented government propaganda, which was made with a lot of tax money. If representatives of your party have slandered us as reactionary, as anti-European, as a petty, on the other hand, Cap and his colleague Ederer have presented the EU as a slaring country, than the country where milk and honey will flow, we will be on 13th. All of us have to account for those who have now really kept right. [[to Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel]] Today we know once again that it was the liberals who saw things correctly. Many hopes are already disappointed. Our criticism, our warnings have been confirmed many times because we were the only ones who really had to deal with this issue seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At two extraordinary federal congresses, we discussed this issue: We had invited guests from all areas of public life to really discuss all the problems in full range. The result, the main criticism was then: The Federal Government has not perfectly negotiated, internal Austrian homework has not been done, and a state à la Maastricht is the wrong way for Europe. We have received confirmations of this view in the course of the last year. Also the renowned "Weltwoche" of the 15th century. June 1995 writes: The Austrian malaise is produced marginally in far Brussels, most of it is homemade. In the main responsibility: SPÖ-ÖVP government. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Pfui Gack!]] They have led the Austrians largely unprepared to Europe, and now Austria is in the European rain. On the facts, Mr Cap, we do not get away with: 50 billion schilling of accession costs in the first year; Doubling the current account deficit, in international competitiveness, as often as is said by your side, as well as Austria, we have now slipped down from 7th place to 13th place; the dramatic increase in unemployment is known, and the huge purchasing power flow had to be admitted by the Minister of Finance more often. All of this is facts that will leave glowing EU supporters extremely silent and thoughtful. Many of those who have marched into this European Union without When and But have been brought back to the ground of reality. It was only recently that an economic event had to be held by the liberals of the glowing Europe advocates and my fatherly friend Georg Mautner Markhof: We must have a lot of humor to be for accession today. The example with the Burgenland and how strange it sometimes goes was already mentioned by Mr Haider: We should now, in order to get back some of the money we pay to Brussels, take up loans in Switzerland in order to be able to move jobs from Upper Austria to Burgenland in the short term with an effort of 10 million schilling per job! I think that is the extract of the perversion of this European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: A project!]] - Please go, you really don't know yourself! You may be a good mayor in Purbach, but that's not what you've been doing. Agriculture, for example: The prices are in the basement; the alternative, ecological agriculture, is now ruined by the provisions not to have to mark genetically engineered foods – decided at European level. The Austrian farmers cannot keep up with this market in which only the price counts, especially because the European Union has no interest at all in promoting organic farming. Otherwise, it would have voted in favour of the labelling of genetically modified foods and not against them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How's the transit? – Mr Klima has promised me and Gurgieser high and holy at the Europe Forum: All the best, the contract will keep, the environmental pollution will be reduced. – The fact is: 25 percent more transit, the emissions are just exploded. – Well, climate has just happened with this contract a little mistake, as so many ministers who have negotiated there have happened errors. But the problems are going on right now: The discussion about anonymous savings books is a small thing about what is now happening to us. "Without If and But": In contrast to Sweden, which has negotiated business, we are going into a monetary union, which is to be read in the "economist" – I quote – without having to go into this European monetary union: "The euro is supposed to be a single currency that is already ahead of the smell of bad money." Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, all states are actively engaged in meeting the Maastricht criteria, and these criteria are currently bringing us into enormous internal policy turbulence, because these criteria show that this government has not done its homework. Failures and missing policies are now revealed carelessly. The result? – Stress packages à la Sozialdemocracy with the aim of saving 100 billion schillings in two years. I bet today you won't make it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Geisterbahn!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are the creator of the spirit railway!]] We can bet that we will not. Although the burden package costs the public a lot, it will not achieve the success you wish. The economy is affected by such a negative effect that there will be no economic growth. We can look down the current corrections of the economic research institutes. At some point, there will be no growth at all. In other words, unemployment will continue to rise; especially youth unemployment will become a problem for Austria. We will thus set in motion a negative spiral with which we will have to fight for a very long time. These too are the consequences of your failure and EU accession, which must be said to the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it is not only Austria that has these problems. Almost all countries – except Luxembourg – have the same problems with debt, inflation, rising unemployment, and the EU itself, with its economic research institutes, sees an additional 1.5 million unemployed. Denmark, the United Kingdom and the already quoted Sweden have recognised this in time and have provided themselves with opportunities in order not to have to participate everywhere if it goes somewhere in the wrong direction. Only we have to put in all that you have put in us! If the euro is actually to come – what happens, Mr Cap? What happens if he is to come in a timely manner, subject to all deadlines? What do the countries actually have to do? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is the Cap Wurst!]] – In the short term, you will get too many tricks, as experts say: They will apply their own statistical procedures, privatize them, move expenditure into the following years, stop crediting and, in some cases, achieve these criteria in the short term, for a snapshot, with Ach and Krach – at least some countries. But what happens after that snapshot? Will these criteria also be possible for a long period of time? – Every expert says: No, it's not possible. That's why Minister Waigel has been thinking. He presented his famous Stability Pact to the public, but Haensch says: What Waigel is imagining will not come at European level. What happens if some or many countries are not competitive despite all efforts if they cannot meet these criteria? What happens then? Will unemployment then rise again? – Foresightly, Minister. But then there will no longer be these instruments with which to make economic policy. Devaluation is then no longer possible, the countries can no longer fly out. So: What will be? – Increased mobility across the Member States? If you get through with your Easter enlargement, I am afraid of this mobility, Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Schweitzer, who wrote the speech?]] Further social tensions will come to us, and we will have the biggest problems to answer, Mr Cap, with your social democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who wrote the speech? He's supposed to be released for a while!]] Or we are taking countermeasures, and it is not only an internal Austrian financial compensation every year, but also an international financial compensation. They will explain to the people why this financial compensation requires the Austrians a sum of money expenditure again. They will explain it to them! They will say why they now have more to pay for the EU. The wealthy EU countries – and of which Austria is still thank God – will have to be increasingly financially under the arms of the posters. Mr Cap, what if the weak have to stay outside? What happens then? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Then the strong are inside!]] [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Then the EU will probably not be able to continue in the form – perhaps thank God – because the strong devaluations among the outsiders will only improve the competitive situation in the short term, if at all. But then, increasing inflation and rising interest rates reduce the chances of budget renewal and thus entry to the club, said Mr. Giscard d’Estaing, who means that the gap could go deep into the EU. Mr Ditz has also recognized this correctly if he says that there can only be an economic and monetary union if all are involved. Different dates of entry for each EU country would, according to Ditz, lead to strong distortions of competition. I would then like an answer from you, Minister Schüssel, what you are saying about your colleague's statement, especially if you know, for example, that Haensch says that Italy will certainly not be present at the beginning and that Belgium can participate in this monetary union at the earliest in 2017 with 130 percent debt. Your family friend Schröder, Mr. Cap, says: If you combine areas with different economic forces, there are either migration movements – or you avoid this process by organizing huge transfer payments. All of this, according to Ditz, Schröder – who does not belong to us – will come to us. [[Abg. Kiss: Who is Schröder?]] You don't know Schröder? Pauli, you're not coming abroad! I think that we are overburdened and poorly equipped for an irrevocable experiment. I am therefore opposed to this overturned experiment, which is being pushed forward for political reasons, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Oh, that's what he means!]] The costs for us will once again be enormously high, all because you want this single currency so early, because once again you are not willing to prepare this step properly from below. A dictatorship from above is much preferable to you. In view of all these uncertainties, the question arises for us – and we will discuss this together with the Austrian population: What should the abolition of schilling be good for – for all these uncertainties, for all these unanswered questions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (for Abg. Dr. Cap) You've never saved yourself anything in life, but there are thousands of diligent people! You've never saved anything, so don't worry! You've got up to 36. Your age is studying!]] Mr Cap! Why should we give up our own currency, the schilling, and thus a substantial part of Austrian economic power? Why? Can you explain this to me, can you explain it to the Austrian population? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The text isn't right now, there's something missing now! You left something out!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He doesn't write it down, unlike you!]] Mr Cap! I tell you one thing – with the words of Giscard d’Estaing: If we are going to enter the European Monetary Union in this way, as You want that, then we have the choice between Pest and Cholera; that's what Giscard said about three weeks ago. To present the Austrian population with this choice shows how little political feeling you have. We liberals will have more political sense. We will tell the Austrian people what they have to do with the schilling because you have prepared this accession again badly. ==References== October will produce a clear result.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21690	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21711	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have, of course, deliberately referred to Mr Schweitzer, because I knew with what arguments he is acting against the European Union, about as a scepter. [[Rejoicing]] I can answer with a real Swiss, with Swiss President Jean-Pascal Delamuraz, who has been my colleague as Minister of Economic Affairs for many years. This one has on the question – this conversation was very interesting –: Are you now glad that Switzerland is not a member of the EU, because you see that Austria has difficulties with the EU, with budget reform, with monetary union and with the bad opinion climate? answered –: I'm sure not. The future of my country lies in integration in Europe. – The choice is quite clear; there are two ways: Either we are not inside and suffering from the European Union, or we are inside and have shared responsibility for these decisions. There is no other solution. Schweitzer, take an example of this Swiss who actually said very well what it really is about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Wolfgang, you have to tell the joke he told!]] This is the first opportunity that we have a fundamental debate on foreign policy on the occasion of the budget. I am quite right to say to the honourable Member that it is a controversial matter, but nevertheless some essential common lines have also become visible. For example, I have listened with great interest to the speech of the FPÖ-Obmann, and if it is meant to be serious, it shows a slight turning towards a more differentiated attitude towards the European Union. He said: We respect the outcome of the referendum, we want to make the most of it. The aim is to contribute to this Europe, which Austria has said. I believe that this is or can be a basis for a common foreign policy concept. I may have a somewhat naïve view of foreign policy, but I believe that a small country needs a common foreign policy, because it can only really be successful in foreign policy and in international bodies. I therefore believe that many critical remarks that have come from the speakers of the opposition in particular concern the past and not the present, for example the criticism of the wrong or too complicated, complex situation of competence. I believe that we have really achieved a much better solution in the coalition negotiations. There is a very clear policy position today. Foreign policy is solely the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since there is no parallel action at all at all, but there is – hopefully – an optimal coordination at national level. And so it must be. This applies to every Minister of Trade – and in this The Federal Chancellor is also a specialist minister responsible for national voting in some areas, if several departments are affected. This too is necessary so that we can then speak with one voice in Brussels. But this must also be done by the individual ministers of expertise. If, for example, the Willi Molterer goes to the Council of Agriculture Ministers, he must vote with the Minister for Health and Consumer Affairs on questions that are extremely important to consumers, for example. If Mrs Krammer is present in a Council of Trade Ministers, of course she must seek the opinion of the ministers responsible for this matter, there must be a coordinated line. Of course, the Minister for the Internal Market – that is Johannes Ditz as the head of the Economic Area – has to vote. We have our own agenda item in the Council of Ministers every week only on European matters, and after the first two months we can already say that almost 60 percent of the time we are discussing in the Council of Ministers is about coordination and decision-making, about voting the different opinions in European matters. Therefore: Let us really forget these historical disputes; they are history. What we have today is, I believe, a very reasonable basis, with a clear allocation of responsibility, where the Foreign Ministry is the vote in the main Council, namely the General Affairs Council. It is also a very conscious objective of the Maastricht Treaty that all the other Councils of Trade Ministers are ultimately derived from this general Council. Also, the fight for the intervention of persons – let me say this quite openly, dear Friedhelm – is history. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: A recurring one!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I promise you, we will no longer have any disputes on this issue at all. There were no disputes in Austria either on the question of the office. There was a discussion in Brussels about it, but it really had nothing to do with the "color teaching" in Vienna. On Monday I was in Luxembourg, and there, for example, the Secretary-General of the European Council confirmed to me that Austrian representative Brunmayr – an A1 post – is now the leader of his staff. The same is confirmed to me by the Directorates-General, in which Austrian officials can act with their seat and voice. And please: Franz Fischler has certainly become not only a physical, but also an intellectual and politically outstanding figure in the reign of the commissioners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I want to deal briefly with the topicality and the Austrian priorities of foreign policy; we will certainly be able to deepen this. For me, Austrian foreign policy is characterised by three major objectives. One area is the classical, traditional commitment to human rights and to the protection of minorities. This question is extremely important for us. We have made exemplary use of it in recent decades – regardless of who was Foreign Minister – and so it should remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second big topic for us: good neighbourhood policy and – I recognize this – not obedient attire. We do not act as those who now have the good, true, and beautiful to teach. We are good friends, we are neighbors, we carry out controversies – for example on the question of nuclear power plants, also on the question of legal situations, which are inflamed especially during the post-war period or during the war period – but we do not mix everything with everyone. Bilaterals is bilateral, multilateral is to be discussed multilaterally. In this sense, we have also gained an exemplary quality in good neighborhood, and of course our beloved South Tyrol is always common among neighborhoods. I say this quite consciously pathetic, because South Tyrol policy is not a marginality of Austrian foreign policy, but, in turn, heart blood in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Allow me to say a sentence about Slovenia because it is very up-to-date. I was in Liège on Friday and had a very good discussion with all the representatives – from the President, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Bishop, Archbishop to opposition and party leaders. This was a very good round in so far as we were able to achieve a breakthrough on the way to the Association Agreement with the European Union. The Slovenian Parliament has now taken the necessary decisions to enable the Association Treaty to be signed as quickly as possible. In addition, we have also received for the first time signals that the dialogue, which is actually being conducted on the Austrian side with the Slovenian minorities, also begins on the Slovenian side. At this point, I would also like to thank the clubs and all the speakers of the political groups for their genuine commitment to a Europe-wide, indeed highest standard of minority protection. But for the first time, there is also a willingness on the Slovenian side to enter into such a dialogue with German-speaking Slovenians. I think this is of great interest and importance for the quality of our current and future relations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We attach particular importance to this neighbourhood policy. I make 25 trips abroad from January to June, visit all neighbouring countries, the reception is excellent, and I believe that we can also play a completely different role – third topic – in European policy. With this coalition agreement, we have basically defined a basic law of Austrian European policy: We want to play an active and solid part in all central policy areas from the outset. This is a very important point that hopefully goes far beyond the borders of today's government parties and hopefully can also be carried by the opposition parties. From the very beginning, we want to actively and in solidarity with all European policies. The first and large area is, of course, monetary union. Many speeches have been made on this issue today. I think it is necessary to mention again why this economic and monetary union comes about: Once because it has economic advantages. We are of course saving ourselves conversion costs, transaction costs in a considerable double-digit billion. And now that we have to strengthen Austria's location in international competition, it makes sense to benefit from this cost advantage through monetary union. In addition, however, monetary union has something to do with political self-understanding. It was not accidentally invented in 1990 on the initiative of Mitterrand and Kohl. It is also intended to act as a counterweight to German unification and to accelerate, to put German unification in a European context and to make European integration irreversible for all time and eternity. It's important to understand that. It is, of course, necessary that this single currency is one that gives confidence to citizens, to economic operators, to investors and to savers. It is therefore important that this is not some plastic currency, but a good, hard, stable currency. Mr. Dr. Haider, one must already be clear: Either we insist that the lira is inside, which would be very important to us, or we say: It must be a currency as hard as the schilling. Then there may be a currency that does not meet these criteria outside. But that is essentially what is also the case today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Today we have almost a connection, almost a monetary union, not only Germany, but also some Benelux countries such as Holland, but also the Franc, at times at least, had such elements, and Austria. But perhaps we also want all the currencies to be there under all circumstances, which, in my view, does not make sense. I'm allowed to quote the unwarranted Swiss witness again. The question to Delamuraz was: How do you view this monetary union from a Swiss point of view, as one that does not yet belong to the Union? – Answer of the Swiss President: The success of monetary union is a grace for the Swiss franc. A future failure would create a very difficult situation. It is in Switzerland's interest that there is a success. The artificially high level of Swiss franc costs us billions in exports and tourism compared to the dollar zone and the Italian lira. – So if you do not believe the Austrian government, take the unwarranted Swiss witness, who must know too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third area: After reforming the institutions towards greater efficiency – the role of the small ones needs to be strengthened – the fight for optimal internal security is of course also vital. This objective serves as a means of cooperation between Europol, the cooperation of drug seekers, and cooperation against international money laundering. Of course, I fully share the opinions that have been expressed here. No one, most likely a strong, good, safe country like Austria, can have only a shadow of interest in becoming an international money laundering centre, so of course the introduction of the UN drug conventions and many other things is also taking place. Therefore, the fight for an intensified common foreign and security policy. We have also made a number of important points in connection with the coalition negotiations. But let me also say a sentence on the enlargement of the Union. A little bit bothers me with the word "oster expansion". A so-called Easter enlargement would actually suggest the thought that there was still the East Block today. But talk to a Czech, talk to a Slovenian who will defend themselves with hands and feet from being thrown into a pot with other countries – I now know nothing about it. And if you look at the facts, then you will see that the gap between the candidate countries and the other Member States today is no longer that great. The Czech Republic, for example, already has a gross social product which is higher than Greece had at the time of its accession. The figures for Hungary and Poland are already well above the value of Portugal at the time of its accession. This is why I am saying this in order to make the debate a little bit more difficult and to make it more difficult. Yes, it is right, an Easter enlargement, an extension of some eligible and candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe can cost money. But I see the question this way: If we are not prepared to export stability, then there is a danger that we will import instability! That is why the accession of the neighbouring countries around Austria makes sense for our country, for our citizens, for our own internal and external security, but also for economic security. The second question raised in this context is: How can we shape the future in such a way that the costs are predictable and manageable? . I therefore believe that we must also move forward with internal reform in the EU. Not all programmes, which are of course natural today, will be included in the 21st century. ==References====External links== I also agree, of course, with my friends in Burgenland that, after the end of the five-year period in which the Burgenland is the Objective 1 area, it must be our aim that the Burgenland is no longer the Objective 1 area, because it has become strong enough to push out of this poverty zone and thus to be fully involved in the prosperity process. That's our interest! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that those questions that are important to us Austrians can no longer be resolved at the national level today, for example the question of work. We all in Europe have the same interest in creating employment and combating unemployment. But we also know that the national effort alone is too little. Of course, it remains national responsibility, which is clear, employment policy remains national and responsibility in the next century. But it is better to coordinate, to set common rules and measures such as deregulation, founding time, trans-European networks, research developments and so on, so as to strengthen employment in Europe as much as possible. Environmental issues: It is in our interest to solve the environmental issues in such a way that we can act optimally across borders that we can give about 30, 40 East German cars the greatest possible importance and operate there at least with the highest Western safety standards, just as in transport policy national efforts are far too few, as the European Union has become the world's strongest number in development aid, as peace and stability cannot ultimately be guaranteed by Austria, but only in international cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was elected to the European Parliament on 13 November. October mentioned. This is an important choice. This is not a natural choice! Paul-Henry Spaak – former Foreign Minister of Belgium and later President of the Assembly – once said that the European Parliament will not have its meaning until its members are directly determined by general elections. And that was a long, laborious struggle for this democratic election of a European Parliament. It's not a matter of course! Therefore, let us not devalue the issue of the elections to the European Parliament by making it almost a reserve people's vote or an internal policy statement. To this end, the European Parliament is too sorry! It is about choosing the best of the most professional representatives who represent the interests of our region, Austria, the federal states, the professional groups in such a way that we achieve a great deal for Europe, but at the same time get the best out for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21833	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21855	Mr President. Minister! High house! I must congratulate you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: It was beneficial that you took such a conceptual position here. This stimulates the discussion and can be really helpful, then perhaps to work out some different nuance. But it was above all the effort to bring a little level back into the debate, which cannot be said by your previous speaker. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For what was before was internal excretion struggles, who should lead the unfortunate FPÖ election struggle to the European Parliament: Hair or sweater? – I have to say, I don’t know, because intellectually and politically there was no difference. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Both have not been able to surpass at depths. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If it comes to the conclusion that it will be an end to referendum argumentation, then I can only say: We should not stop you from doing so, because there has once been a 66 percent majority as a result of this argument, where then the yogurt loops have run around... – I know you are making the policy of the apocalyptic riders and simply represent everything you think is in a context that is bar of any reality. [[Calls of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger and Mag. Schweitzer.]] For example, the yoghurt loops are used to argue, as was the case at the time, then with the anonymity of the savings books and then – and there you should be particularly careful! – with the "Moloch" of the Brussels bureaucracy. As if there were something uncontrollable, not recognizable, all over the head of the citizens decisive; that is for you the "moloch" of the Brussels bureaucracy. I'd like to tell you the following if you're already like this: In the corridors in Brussels, individual FPÖ MEPs in the area, lonely, alone, no one wants them. Hardly do they want to open a door, she's already locked again. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There you can only say to the Austrians: That would be a lost voice! There is no point in choosing any spirit drivers in Brussels who can't do anything there, because no one really listens to them, because no other group in particular wants them to work there. They will have no effect, no weight. It'll just be a joke when you get there! That is why I can only say: I believe that this must be communicated to the Austrians, namely, the role you play there. I also understand that you stand out here and say: We do not want Brussels – because Brussels does not want us. I understand! That's the sandbox reaction from the childhood you're revitalizing here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What have you achieved? An example!]] Schweitzer! I can hardly discuss with you, I don't have this "high" level. You're just saying: the Waigel, the Hänsch, probably the Giscard d'Estaing and the Schweitzer. Schweitzer's at home everywhere! Schweitzer is international! That's where all the doors go! Probably the only one to whom people like to listen on the highest level. If so, you can only be congratulated! I am in favour of trying really to get the discussion to the point and give it the opportunity to debate. If you only present yourself as a director of the Geisterbahn, it is pointless! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There will only be the result that everyone can tremble and not listen. We want to create a climate of debate, and not what you are trying to do here to present in your election dry dock exercises in the final effect. - I think that's pathetic. But just do it! You will get the answer you have already received at the referendum. And we will do everything we can to repeat that! We can really promise you today. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There's still such a perfect line of argument. A bit shimmers the attitude by: So there is this "moloch" of bureaucracy, and it is decided on our heads, and therefore perhaps referendum democracy could be a way to escape it. – So I don't know how this is supposed to work with referendum democracy in 15 member states. I am not even sure if this works with the permanent referendum democracy in a state. That perhaps fits into the concept you have as an opposition party may be. But you have to think of something else, please. – Mrs Tichy-Schreder has expressed a thought that really seems to me very important, and she has the problem – not the yogurt loop! – addressing the globalisation of the economy, the problem of the threat to sites, the question of securing jobs, all in conjunction with the expansion of multimedia networking, the question of productivity, the question of production and where they will be held in the future. And it has reported that in the Pacific, a growth process is currently taking place which is far greater than that in the OECD area. And that must be thought to the end, what that means! And you, Mr Foreign Minister, did this on the verge of action earlier. It makes sense to think about what not only Austria can bring in, but what we can bring in within the European Union with the other Member States so that we can stand in this globalisation competition at all, so that there will be jobs in Europe at all, so that the future growth process will not soon go ahead exclusively in Malaysia, China, Singapore and India. These are the crucial questions, the existential questions. This will affect our entire future industrial policy, as will our future social policy. The whole social state level will depend on it. It will depend on whether we can still finance environmental policy, environmental protection at all; whether we can really finance social policy. – These are the crucial questions and should be focused on them. And here I plead for a serious dialogue, also in the direction that we think critically: Will the EU be able to do that? This was one of the constitutional considerations that we have said to a European Union that we want to be members there because we really are better able to face these challenges in this large economic unit, in this great political unit, and then really better. How can we get in there? How will the institutions develop? How will we be able to bring in our design considerations as a small country and with what concepts? There has already been an impact on how this might be about, and we must now make that more concrete. And that, I think, should actually take place in an election movement, even though we are not used to doing so. But we could try to change, use election movements to try to enter a political dialogue with citizens instead of working with fear slogans, and to be able to beat cheap political capital through fear slogans, completely without regard to what this could mean. This is so unresponsible – at a time when it is about running conceptual policies, and it is difficult enough anyway, because prejudices are taking place and the mood is not really good in the other EU Member States, because there are problems in employment, security, social affairs and, and, problems. But that would really be the task of the opposition to try to take that up, not only at national level, but also in the context of the European Parliament's work. What policy will you make in the European Parliament? Which content will be You there? Will you continue there with the Geisterbahn-Rodel in the area? How will you do this there if you are already trying to communicate all the evils of this world with medical and with other vocabulary to the citizens? That's my question! After all, you are elected by around one million citizens, and it does not matter how to communicate with these one million citizens, even in relation to the next European elections. That is why I appeal to hold a truly meaningful, constructive debate here. This applies not only to the economic sector, but also to the complexity of security policy. This is also a tempting field where you can operate with fear slogans and always say: For God's sake! Sitter, sitter! You act responsibly, the whole government is a doorway, nothing works, everything is rusted, creepy, creepy! Of course you can do it that way. All right! There will always be a few who believe that they start to tremble, who see the shark on TV and tremble all over the body – either because they see him or because they believe what he says, I don't know. In any case: They're shaking, it's creeping her. Just listen, Mr Haider. It's creeping her. That's something. Look at your own videos, maybe it'll also creep you when you see yourself! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I mean, even in the field of security policy, one should consider – and I can already make a little criticism – before saying: Down in the WEU! We do not yet know how, and we do not yet know what it is doing, but the main thing is, we are there quickly! With this concept, I can't quite find myself. [[Abg. Kiss: This is nonsense!]] Let us also discuss counter-versal. So far I have praised enough, now I have to make up for this. [[Abg. Kiss: No!]] Again: I mean, you should think about it first. I am not saying that I am happy to think about what a possible membership of the WEU might mean. I only need to know what this is in relation to NATO, with which approach we then have to deal with the concept of security in Europe as a whole, how we can try to involve Eastern Europe, how we can try to include Russia in this aspect as well. All of this is in globalising competition, which we will have economically and where we want Europe to be a strong partner, not no matter what. A strong partner is in the final effect also economically, I hope, if this is accompanied by the appropriate economic policy, a strong partner, and also a guarantee of a global peace policy. It doesn't matter! That is why I would argue that we should make the design considerations more open here before describing this path, otherwise the way is the goal. With this, Citroën does his business – but we can't do that. With us the goal must be the goal, it must not be the path of the goal! This was a short philosophical trip, Mr Kiss. But I hope you can do it a little bit. We should, I believe, also bring in our ideas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The issue of Easter enlargement must be dealt with differently. It is not possible to throw all Eastern European countries into a pot and say that they have about the same level of development. That's not true! So you have to see things differently. In principle, however, we should be committed to integrating these countries. – from economic, political, peace-making considerations and, of course, from considerations of a global strategic nature. However, one should become aware of the following: One should be very, very careful when one argues again and again with the so-called Austrian extra sausage in all these debates. There you have to be very careful when you say – plopp, plopp, plopp – we become Austrians but... This was done by the Swiss Member who tried to do this earlier with the "Swedish Card" by saying: How intelligent are the Sweden who managed to negotiate a carte blanche whether they join the monetary union or not. It is not one of the two speakers of the liberals – that is why I have said they have the same intellectual, conceptual and political level – to ask themselves the question of whether monetary union could perhaps have a sense and what lies behind it, which is cost-effective, cost-effective, competitive, whether it will not be more resistant to such super speculators as the Soros and various other figures that can confuse the entire currencies of individual nations. That would be an interesting debate! – not always the nasal ring argumentation: There willless Austrians will again be brought into some dungeons and will be able to roar and boom there for the next hundred years. But we, the liberators, we, the blues, we, the blue angels, the archangels, we will prevent all of this, flatter, flatter! Then you flutter briefly with the wings and believe the thing has run. That's irresponsible! That is why I appeal to hold a really sensible, serious debate here. We should all try to find a ground together, and these election-frozen exercises – probably he has made the race, because if it is lost, he has to give up his head and the shark can continue, so it will run anyway. But intellectually, both can lead the campaign together. I think that's g'hopping like g'jumping.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e21987	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the words have already been changed. Mr. Cap has unraveled his rhetorical talent here. However, I have to say – and he will understand me correctly – that he has made it easy for the opponent. One could see that he has had a lot of fun with it, and I believe that this is in principle positive, because one should also be able to enjoy what we, as a listening Member, are experiencing as a very pleasant one. But I would now like to turn to those aspects which Mr Cap understandably did not mention, because he is very close to coalition. Although he has made some demarcations, for example on the issue of security policy, the weaknesses we see in foreign policy, in particular from a liberal point of view, have not soaked. That's not his job, but he could have reminded one or the other. On the other hand, I will try to remind you of some things, in particular what the "East enlargement" – under quotation marks – is about to happen. The issue of Slovenia has already been addressed here today in connection with legal old-age loads in this country. I am quite sure and I also share the view of the Federal Minister that the Republic of Slovenia will be able to resolve these aspects in a collegial, friendly, hopefully also hard-led, but honest discussion. But in front of our doorstep we also have other candidate countries, and also from their economic development, relatively advanced countries, with which we have similar problems. I do not want us to deal with matters which the Czech Republic has yet to deal with intellectually concerning its own historical past. I think it is necessary for an honest word to be spoken about the Beneš decrees at some point. I don't want to discuss this right now, because that would lead too far. But if we are silent about this, then we are unjust, then we are cowardly, and then we remain somewhat guilty to many of our fellow citizens, who have long been integrated with us as Austrian citizens. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not believe that we should be able to engage in diplomacy and no political childbirth, by calming ourselves to know that the Free State of Bavaria and Germany, in any case – so right and in some way – exercise the role of defence. It is not about the implementation of difficult property rights, it is about restoring the honor of murdered people. That should be a concern to us! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] These are aspects which already play a role in the current European Union, although not with this drama, but at least with regard to human rights, fundamental rights. These seem to me to be neglected. While it is rightly recognized that political integration and economic integration should be developed, I miss the European catalogue of fundamental rights and its enforceability at European level in the positions of Austria for the EU Government Conference to the extent that we would wish for it from a liberal point of view. We are missing the approach we could represent much easier from the point of view of a newly joined country than those which have been in the Community for a long time. As a newly joined country, we can also put on a certain, quite conscious blue eyeness by saying: We are here now, and we wish ourselves! This interactive process, which needs to be done, is just hard work, because Austria is, of course, a small country in a large community. But perhaps it would be very useful for the Austrian Federal Government to make itself aware that the two-thirds majority it has at home does not also work in Brussels. She doesn't work there! It would therefore be very important for one to show modesty at times when applying one's own possibilities in the country and to act with the view that one will be very painfully taught at the international level. If we are not committed to establishing a general ban on discrimination against citizenship, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability and age, then we remain guilty of something ourselves. If we do not work to ensure that Union citizenship gradually develops towards a fully-fledged, citizenship-related legal character, then we remain somewhat guilty. In this context, I believe that it is particularly good for Austria to set up real initiatives in the field of asylum procedures at European level to ensure real harmonisation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We've got something to do. The third country clause, which was ultimately invented in that country, must be accompanied by a living asylum law. This must, of course, be done in the European context. If uniform standards were to be reached at European level, so many problems that we have today due to the non-existent solidarity of our European partner countries would no longer exist. That is why I do not understand what the obstacle is to make itself strong on this question. Perhaps the reason is that we occasionally behave a little shamefully at other international levels on human rights issues. I'm thinking about China. China is a problem! [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Favorable!]] Shame or double. If you want to cast this double-beddedness, you may sometimes be a little silent about human rights issues so that you can't keep this double morale. If the Federal Council delegations travel to China without the issue of human rights being discussed, and at the same time the President of one of the larger European countries is still forbidden from taking the word "human rights" into their mouths, and from the point of view of the situation, he could not act differently than then not to take the word "human rights" into the mouth – I do not defend it now, but I can imagine the process quite well, these processes are sometimes quite compulsive, and he was obviously not man enough to ignore them, however they may be – then I must say: Against this background, you do not send a Federal Council delegation to such a country! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Mr Cap has further developed the security aspects such as WEU and so on. I don't want to deal with this right now. But I'm bringing something in from here yesterday: Perhaps this self-willing positioning is in relation to Turkey and to the Kurds, which, by the way, is related to human rights problems, because perhaps a watering point. But if you are blind on one eye, you do not, of course, notice that the Kurdish problem we spoke about yesterday is the result of a human rights policy of a NATO country, namely Turkey. And if you have certain wishes and because it contradicts your own NATO perspective, perhaps you suppress the reflex to say yourself, there is criticism. Only: These are things that need to be discussed in peace. We believe that without Western European Union at the security level, there is no solution to a European security architecture. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] However, we must be constructive in this building and we must not just say that we would like to have the WEU, which is an excellent address, but what is happening there is not interested in us. We will then move into this house at the given time when the others have built and furnished it. We have not entered the European Union – to continue to sit in the log and watch what is happening on stage. We need to act much more ourselves on stage and more. We must also understand, however, that the European Union has now become an element of our internal policy. In other words, we need to improve our dealings with Parliament's participation rights in EU affairs, improve administrative procedures and also increase Parliament's performance in this area. We are still inferior to the administration on these issues, but we want and want to participate and believe that this is a progress towards democracy. I also partially miss the full adoption of what accession to the EU means in the individual ministries. Only a few days ago, we had the really frightening and sad phenomenon that our Ministry of Economic Affairs was managing foreign trade as much as before, as if we had not entered the EU. Austrian foreign trade regulations will continue to be adopted where there is directly applicable EU law and then repealed. What this means for an economic location in Austria when parallel legislation suddenly exists, where scholars have to argue about which of the two now applies, we can only imagine. For a company, this may mean that it may have to extend its legal department by a few people in order to see whether a regulation published in the German Federal Law Journal was at all right and necessary, and whether it still applies, although it has already lost the legal basis at EU level. There's still a lot of improvement in our administration. This is not the case with the House of the Federal Minister, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs used to be his house, and he certainly has best relations with it and will be able and willing to give me the right. The learning process remains far too far behind reality, and these are things that are extremely detrimental to an economic location. In any event, we have the problem that we have created an over-bureaucratic situation with our internal law; in the next chapter on the budget, my group colleagues will certainly address it in detail. But if we still maintain or expand our bureaucracy even where we would no longer need it at all, because there are already European uniform standards of law, which are also directly applicable, then all of this becomes more visible. Therefore, once again: If one not only sees the European Union as purely economic and not only political in the so far saying, but also as a fundamental legal platform, as an opportunity for Austria to participate in the further development of human rights, then we will also achieve a different acceptance in the population. The fact that accession to the European Union was, in fact, without an alternative has been discussed except by a political group in this House. We should argue about how we deal with our opportunities in the European Union. We must not forget, in particular, that there are a number of things in the economic field which have suddenly become out of evidence. Apart from evidence, the question of energy seems to me at European level. In this respect, there was already much more on the table than today seems to be present. I therefore believe that we should also focus on continuing to operate the energy chapter in the European Treaties, because it is one of the key infrastructure issues of the continent, how we deal with it, both large and small-scale, because only when there is genuine cooperation – it is a real one, not one at a poor level! – we can also enforce the ecological standards we want to achieve there. What credibility do we have with a policy that is concerned about the high-risk nuclear power plants in the former eastern block if we do not allow further development of our energy structures in Western Europe if we continue to adhere to an antique Euratom Treaty, rather than developing it and reinterpreting it as one of the instruments to make it possible to get out of this form of energy use. Anyone who knows the economic parameters of nuclear energy knows that the real cost of snow ploughing will be pushed away from the problem, and the day is approaching and nearing where the real cost of this energy use will be striking, and that will be huge costs. I therefore mention the costs, because this is perhaps a language that France also understands when the ecological and other arguments should not be taken. It is adventurous to see how the head is inserted into the sand, how the possibilities to argue, are ignored. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let me conclude by introducing another Ceterum Censeo, a Ceterum Censeo for the fields of foreign policy, which is not the European Union, which is not the European Union's enlargement, but development cooperation. In this regard, semantics is sometimes treacherous, because here, occasionally instead of development cooperation, the obsolete term "development aid" is still used. We have no reason to be proud of us and of what Austria is doing. If Mr Pollet-Kammerlander has expressed the concern that the budget overrun, which has been put into space in order at least to preserve the budget approach, will not come to life, then I must tell her that we can look at it from two sides. For this restructuring budget, only 850 million are planned, and the argument that 100 million are still in the form of an overrun is not acceptable is double-paid, because this would be the wrong-handed face of the budget truth. The scandal is that there are only 850 million. Maybe you're going to make a budget overrun, and I don't want to spend myself there as a prophet right now. That Mr Pollet-Kammerlander regrets this, I understand, because the economic dimension of budgetary truth may not have been so important for her and the emotional side has gone through with her towards development cooperation, but it should both be the case. For development cooperation the necessary budget resources must be made available and the budget truth must be maintained – and not by announced excesses of 100 million trying to satisfy the pain of the humanitarian-thinking people and at the same time beating the first small hole into the bottom of the budget box when we are talking about the federal budgets today. It was important to me in this final sentence. I hope it's no longer such small holes in the bottom of this barrel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22092	Mrs Rauch-Kallat has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22113	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The accession of Austria to the European Union, for years consistently followed by the Austrian People's Party and its Foreign Minister Alois Mock, was certainly the most important step of Austrian foreign policy in the last decades and in the Second Republic. The main motivation was for Austria to participate in the Austrian peace work, but also to realize that, as a small country in Europe, Austria cannot solve its problems alone, such as peacekeeping or cross-border environmental threats, migration flows or criminal developments, such as drug trafficking. As a full member of the European Union, Austria can actively participate in the future – and this is certainly better than being excluded and isolated. Austria can also take part in the changes for the future and does not receive them from outside. The Austrian referendum in 1994 was an impressive proof from the Austrians that they have confidence in Austrian foreign policy and the line of foreign policy; they clearly demonstrated this by more than 66 percent. The euphoria of this time is certainly a daily straw and the daily routine turned out. We must take very seriously the dissatisfaction that is felt in some areas. This means that there is also a permanent need for action and information for the government, even for Parliament. Part of the population is also not quite as easy to adapt to the new situation. Some sectors of the economy feel that competition from abroad is particularly strong, but especially Austrian ingenuity, flexibility and commitment have proved that Austria can also use these niches. An example of this is the Austrian farmers, of whom more than 10 percent already operate organically and thus adapt not only to Austrian demand but also to European demand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also a wealth of support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises – if only CRAFT, PHARE or TACIS – help the Austrian economy not only to accept this challenge, but also to cope with it. Austria has joined the European Union as an EU new member since the beginning of 1995. The institutions and the Member States of the European Union have accepted Austria as full-fledged from the beginning, and Austria's voice has always been heard. One important point, of course, is the question of Austria's economic location in Europe, and with its accession to the European Union, this economic location Austria has certainly gained attractiveness. In 1994 and 1995, the export economy alone was able to set a substantial boost for the Austrian economy and thus for Austrian jobs, practically after the conclusion of the negotiations, with plus 9.7 and 8.5 per cent respectively in these two years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Foreign investment from non-member countries also increased sharply, and companies recognised Austria as a gateway to Central and Eastern Europe. The accession was certain, despite the fact that Austria is net payer, correct from an economic point of view, but no less than 21 billion Schilling is going back to Austria's target areas by 1999. The inflation rate has also been falling permanently since then. We reached the lowest level since 1988 at 2.3 percent in 1995, 2.2 percent in 1996 and 1.9 percent in 1997. The main political action of the European Union is the Intergovernmental Conference, which began in Turin in March 1996 and will certainly not be completed by mid-1997. Austria has set out its principles for this. We attach great importance to being fully involved in all key areas of European integration from the outset in order to contribute to further development. The key challenge of the Intergovernmental Conference is to strengthen the Union's acceptance of citizens and to make European decision-making processes more democratic and transparent. But the creation of the optimum conditions for the effective involvement of national parliaments in the European Union and the strengthening of the legislative and control powers of the European Parliament, particularly in the social and environmental fields, are also very important components. The strengthening of the responsibilities of the Committee of the Regions and the more effective implementation of the principle of subsidiarity are also important Austrian concerns. A central point of the Intergovernmental Conference is certainly the subject of work and unemployment in Europe. In this respect, Austria has put forward the most concrete proposals: Austria calls for the improvement of the fight against unemployment by including in the objectives of the EC Treaty under Article 2, the creation of a common monitoring mechanism between the Member States and the Commission and the integration of the social protocol into the EC Treaty. The EIA also represents the rapid expansion of the trans-European networks, i.e. for Austria: Brenner Base Tunnel and the Inntal Railway, as well as the connections to Central and Eastern Europe, which will also have a significant impact on job security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian People's Party also calls for the inclusion of social and environmental standards in the rules of international trade relations by the European Union and for additional efforts by the European Union in the fields of education, research and development. An important contribution from Austria to the European Union was the high Austrian environmental standards that we have introduced in our accession, and it is therefore also a central concern of Austria to play an active and progressive role in the European Union's environmental policy. It is certainly particularly important for us to ensure higher Austrian standards, but of course an essential factor is also to raise EU standards. At the Intergovernmental Conference, Austria also proposed an environmental impact assessment for all Commission proposals, a contractual anchoring of animal welfare, and in particular initiatives to promote alternative energy and energy-saving measures in Eastern Europe. This is a long-term project with the aim of getting out of nuclear energy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would have a number of measures, some of which have already been dealt with by the Foreign Minister. I'm asking you to stay here with the short time. I believe that this step in the European Union has been a very important factor for Austria and that Austria is very important in the meantime in this Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22228	The next speaker is Dr. Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22250	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on monetary union and the convergence criteria. Mr Haider has quoted me in his speech today. He said, if I remember correctly, that I said at a symposia of the Austrian National Bank, which recently took place, that the Maastricht Treaty was a 'wooder'. That's partly right, partly not quite right. I have said at this National Bank symposia that I consider the objective of European monetary union to be correct – not just for economic, almost political reasons – but that I consider the way there, which is set out in the Maastricht Treaty, to be a misconstruction and, in particular, the so-called Maastricht convergence criteria to be one – and that is the right thing to quote – Holler. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: But that's a big difference!]] This is really a big difference! This differentiation between positive positions on monetary union and negative attitudes to the convergence criteria is very important to me. In short, why – but I do not want to hold an academic colleague here –: There is no theoretical justification – at least no economic – for this type of convergence criteria. The theory of optimum currency spaces could have led to real convergence criteria, i.e. something similar to the similarity of industrial structures and the like. Why? – The more similar the economic structures are, the more unlikely it is that so-called – now a term technician comes, you forgive – exogenous asymmetric shocks play a major role. And the more unlikely such shocks, the more a country can abandon the instrument of autonomous exchange rate policy. However, the convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty are exclusively monetary and have nothing to do with real development: Convergence of inflation rates, convergence of interest rates, stability of exchange rates some time before monetary union and, finally, the two, if I may say so, notorious fiscal criteria: the 3 percent and 60 percent respectively in terms of deficit and indebtedness. At best, I consider the criteria for inflation rates and interest rates to be unnecessary, at least necessary, because in a monetary union the interest rates will anyway be largely identical, apart from special risk premiums in certain countries, and inflation rates will also be largely identical. So it is not necessary for them to converge on this path before. I believe that the fiscal criteria are harmful, even harmful, because they create a significant pressure on a restrictive budgetary policy in all EU countries at the same time in a relatively short period of time, thereby aggravating the current European recession, at least by 1998. This has not been foreseen by the fathers of the Maastricht Treaty, it can be argued that at the end of the 1980s the economic situation was different. Anyway, that may be: For economic reasons, this is unfoundable. There are several hypotheses about this – there is a relatively broad literature about it – why these convergence criteria are still in there: This ranges from conspiracy theories, which say that this is a liberal-capitalist conspiracy to force a conservative budgetary policy, to a more civil conspiracy theory, which I believe is more credible, namely that, through Germany and in particular, the Deutsche Bundesbank, these convergence criteria have been advocated in order to make monetary union more difficult and not to facilitate. – This second argument is not implausible if you look at the attitude of the Deutsche Bundesbank in recent months. In any case: For monetary union as such, the two fiscal convergence criteria are neither necessary nor sufficient as long as – and this is an essential point – the so-called Bail-out is excluded. Bail-out means that other countries will not have to buy a highly indebted country free, so to speak, if there is a risk of illiquidity. I do not think that any European country is in such a direct danger, but this possibility of this so-called 'bail-out obligation' is expressly excluded from the Maastricht Treaty, both directly and indirectly, Bail-outs. So all that is going to happen in a monetary union is that countries which, for what reasons always, are driving a debt policy, so to speak, which differs from the average path of virtue – that is, higher debt, higher deficits, and so on – will have to pay a higher risk premium, i.e. higher interest rates than countries that are currently running a different policy. There are many people – not only in Austria, especially in Germany, but also in parliamentarian Dr. Haider – who have concern – who have legitimate concern! – that the euro should be a hard currency, as we say. The term "hardness" is not clearly defined, but let us assume that two things are meant by it: so to speak, the hardness inside – that can only mean that the inflation rate in the EU should be low – and the hardness to the outside, that is, that the euro is not one of the so-called soft currencies that are constantly at risk of depreciation. I believe that this objective is in principle shared by all those present in this House; the question is: Do the institutional mechanisms in the European Union provide that the euro will be a hard currency? – I think: yes! Many people even believe that the regulations go too far. Why do I believe that? – There are clear targets for the European Central Bank, and there are in particular clear rules on the independence of the European Central Bank to national governments. This independence has largely been re-educated by the Deutsche Bundesbank, but in important detail it is about the independence of the current officials, i.e. directors, Director-Generals et cetera, the Deutsche Bundesbank, which is not entirely inconceivable. But as far as the stability of the currency is concerned, I believe that you should not be concerned. As far as external hardness is concerned, the question of whether this will be a suspect currency or a depreciation, this question can only arise in relation to the dollar, the yen, the Australian dollar, etc. but not in the inner relationship. There are few insured people today, depending on how the European industry will develop in relation to the American or Japanese industries and the like. I would just like to point out here that the so-called external hardness does not necessarily have to be a positive thing in economic terms in every second of world history. Mr. Dr. Prinzhorn of the Freedom Party has said several times, if I am not very wrong, that the schilling in the last – I do not know – was too hard for one or two years, in the sense that too much flexibility has been given to the devaluation of the lira or the devaluation of the Swedish crown and of currencies of similar European countries, because this has not had a positive impact on the international competitive position of the Austrian paper industry. So this is probably a minority position within the FPÖ – in any case, it is in a certain contrast to the statements made by Dr. Haider today. Indeed, within monetary union, once it is in force, it can no longer come to such competitive devaluations, nor can it devalue as Carinthia to Upper Austria, if the Carinthians are affected by an exogenous shock, or Vorarlberg to Burgenland, because these countries are also in a monetary union, where the Austrian Schilling is in force – despite different economic structures, despite different industrial structures. So because, for example, Italy or Sweden can no longer use this instrument if both countries are members of monetary union, I believe it is also in the interest of the current hard currency countries to be not too restrictive in deciding which countries will or will not participate in monetary union from the outset. It should be in the interest of Austria to insist that Italy will be there from the beginning, of course always provided that I assume that the mechanisms within the European Central Bank are sufficient to pursue a stability policy. I believe that Mr Haider has had the right to point out today – with this reference he is not alone – that, normally, monetary union is the end of a long-lasting, intensive political integration. The Maastricht Treaty, in some way, chooses the reverse path, first monetary union and then a strengthening of political integration. And you can be of the opinion that here quite once in history the horse is stowed at the tail. This poses certain risks, which, I believe, no one will be able to dispute. The question is: What do you want to do now? In contrast to my other role, I think it is a rather academic question to say now that the Maastricht Treaty is misconstructed and we should first have integrated more politically, et cetera. There is now this Maastricht Treaty, Austria has signed it through its accession to the European Union. In this Maastricht Treaty, the timetable for monetary union is also fixed, and less from economics than from politics. I think it is very doubtful whether these provisions should now be taken back, so to speak, in question, in other words, a renegotiation of the Maastricht Treaty. On the contrary: I believe that this would mean a very strong setback for European development, for the Union's political ability to act, and would block rather than promote the other major tasks, namely the deepening of the institutions, the reform of the institutions within the EU and, of course, the enlargement of the EU. From an economic point of view, I do not believe – although there are good arguments for this, I would like to admit – that the timetable should be questioned, and I do not believe this after a long discussion, because I do not regard the main problems of monetary union as such in monetary union, but rather in the time of the transition. This is because the main problems arise, and because of a first stretch of the timetable, if there are arguments for that, these transitional problems will be extended, but not solved. By the way, I have come to the conclusion, my Ceterum-censeo request is to the ministers present, now to the Foreign Minister – I have already caught the Minister of Finance in this regard – to read the Maastricht Treaty again. I would ask you to submit this request to the other foreign and financial ministers. The Maastricht Treaty is by no means in such a way as to enshrine the fulfilment of these three-percent and 60-percent targets in a slavish, dogmatic way. It contains so many vague formulations that allow economically sound interpretations. And I believe that these flexible interpretations, which are appropriate, should be brought to the attention of the German colleagues in particular, because the decision on who ultimately participates in the first stage of monetary union should not be left to the fiscalist criteria - I say a little bit - but this decision is ultimately a political decision. From the point of view of Austria, I believe, in particular, that not only Austria, Germany and the Benelux countries plus France are involved, but also that Italy, in view of the budgetary development of the last two or three years, can be present at the first stage of monetary union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22291	Next speaker is Member Dr. Fuhrmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22313	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to start my post with a quote from yesterday's interview by UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in the daily newspaper "Die Presse". Among other things, he said: "It's not a new problem, it's an old one: Public opinion in the Member States - common here: the United Nations - is not interested in foreign policy. It must be made clear to the public that there will be more and more global problems. In other words: We will not be able to solve the national problems unless we solve the international problem." Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of these words of the UN Secretary-General, I would like to add something to this debate, which has so far been understandablely short, because, of course, the policy of our country in the European Union as a member of the same country is a main topic of Austrian foreign policy. The other aspects of foreign policy therefore naturally come a little too short – once again: not critically said, but only discerningly. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we remember that we are actually in a very interesting phase in international politics, where, as Boutros-Ghali says, globalisation and internationalization are progressing on a massive scale, but on the other hand we also have to see that there is a flame of nationalism, that there is neo-isolationism in very important states of the world – I am addressing the USA – in important representatives of politics, then I believe that we Austrians and, of course, those who make politics in this country must be very conscious of the fact that we should not fall into the mistake of focusing only on what is happening in Europe, to concentrate on what is happening in the Union of the 15 and perhaps to neglect that there are four more than this continent. The Foreign Minister and some speakers in this debate have referred to the fact – I do not want to call it a problem but as a fact – that in Asia we are faced with a rapid transformation of the economic systems there, with explosive economic growth, and this of course also automatically results in a corresponding conversion of societies and, as is assumed, the criteria according to which foreign policy is made in these countries. I am aware of a sense with Mr Vice-Chancellor that, of course, we in the Foreign Office and in the Foreign Ministers recognise that a massive focus has to be on our foreign policy as Asia. We must not lose ground there and – slightly critically noted – do not lose more soil than we have lost in the past, because in recent years, of course, we have concentrated all our resources on persons, attention, intellectual man-power on our planned and sought-after entry into the European Union. We will not only have to deal with this Asian challenge in the 15th European Union concert. I share the opinion of all those who have made it clear that this is an essential reason to be a full member of the European Union, that it is essential to implement the economic union and, of course, monetary union as quickly as possible in order to be fit to meet this economic challenge of the so-called tiger countries as an old continent of Europe. But it is not only economic issues in international politics, it is also about many other problems in the relationship of the peoples. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm addressing Africa. – I also don’t have a lot of speaking time and can therefore only take the subject on a punctual basis. – This continent is also in a massive conversion. This may not be true of us here in Central Europe, but if, like I did last week when I was apologizing here at the plenary debate, with colleagues from the other political groups at the IPU conference in Istanbul, and if there I heard the contributions of the representatives of the African, Arab world, then a sudden resumption is being made that there is a still sleeping continent, a continent which must be freed from the constraints of its economic problem, which of course has been indebted and aroused by us Europeans in the past, starting to rise, and also to join in the international concert, not just economically. Ladies and gentlemen! That means, of course, we must not lose ground here, not forget that there is something going on there, and that, as the Republic of Austria, we have our contacts as far as possible as possible as possible with the countries of this continent. For Latin America – I do not know whether this word has already fallen in the debate today – exactly the same thing I have just said. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mrs. State Secretary is coming from Rio!]] Mrs. State Secretary, I hear you're coming from Rio right now. That is why I hope that you will agree with these considerations. – The countries of this continent are to be treated in full from our foreign policy, from our independent foreign policy outside of those that are made in the European concert. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is reasonable to recall this on the occasion of such a debate and to be prepared as a parliamentarian, in the bodies in which one can work as a parliamentarian, as a parliamentarian, to deal with the issues outside of this European, a little centralized world of thought. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already mentioned it: Interparliamentary Union, OSCE, United Nations; there is, of course, a great field of activity for Austrian foreign policy. However, I would like to come back to Europe now as follows: Let us also bear in mind that European policy is not only a European Union policy within itself and the European Union's policy vis-à-vis the other European countries and perhaps those who want to join it is that Europe's policy cannot and must not be exhausted, for Europe is much, much bigger than the European Union. I believe that one week after the meeting of the National Council, in which the President of the House has acknowledged the fact of the 40-year membership of Austria of the Council of Europe, this can be said again today, because I believe that Austria, as a decades-old member of this largest and oldest country organization in Europe – I can remind you: it now already has 39 countries with around 750 million, i.e. three-quarters of people – far beyond its size in this organization in the past decades and still has today. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already appointed a President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – it was the unforgettable Karl Czernetz. With Lujo Ton#i%-Sorinj and Franz Karasek, we have two Secretary-Generals. And today, the two largest political groups or groups in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have Austrian chairmen. The fact is, then, that a people of not all 8 million people has exerted influence in the Council of Europe far beyond its significance and can at present also exercise it. If it is now true that this European organisation has written on its own flags – and it has done so very well in its past history – to promote it in the context of possible human rights and democracy, to help in part, for example, it is also an essential aspect of a European security policy, a European security thinking, because democracies do not maintain aggression wars. As it has already succeeded to 39 European countries down to Russia and – I think that is happening now – today the 40. I believe that this important discussion forum between the representatives of 40 countries of this Europe, which is about the essential values of, I say, the very unscientific state formations, namely democracy and human rights, is certainly a very important issue in all the considerations, will be taken into account by the Parliamentary Assembly's decision with the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the end because the speaking time we've been out of, and I'm telling you, This is a subject that could truly be discussed as I was told by my predecessor, who was the foreign-political speaker, where, in such a budget debate on foreign policy, the speakers – there were a lot, much less – made and a tour d'horizon carried out within a period of about three-quarters of an hour, and of course one could go into a lot of things. We have a different system now. We divide all of this up and go into special aspects. I conclude by saying: Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister and Mrs State Secretary! I would ask you to take into account these considerations, which I have made briefly, and, because of our concentration on the best possible and, as Mr Foreign Minister has also said, not to include too many intellectual resources and resources in the European Union from the outset, and possibly to neglect important other areas which I have just agreed to.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22355	Mr Dr. Ofner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22377	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an interesting morning over long distances. I do not share in every respect the views of my previous speakers, nor my immediate ones, but it has been a pleasure for me to listen to both Professor Van der Bellen and Willi Fuhrmann from the belly, to refer objectively, expertly, emotion-free and without a tip against anyone else here. I have listened, and I am grateful for the fact that it has been presented in this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are already in these conciliatory tones, I should also like to say that I am pleased that the Minister of State expressed in his remarks that he is facing the complex of the Avnoj provisions which still exist in Slovenia, and that he is indeed prepared to bring about the abolition of this injustice in a lasting way, because it is simply not a matter of the fact that such an evil, historically obsolete collection of standards does not accompany a state on its way to Europe in any way. The Avnoj provisions or the rules of Jaize 1943 and Belgrade 1944 have already been the basis for ethnic cleansing in the area in which they took place in recent years. All those who have had German as their mother tongues have lost all rights – all rights, not just all property rights! That is to say, they were allowed to take the last shirt off their body – I don't say "steal", because it wasn't wrong – or to take the last spoon out of the pocket, because it wasn't wrong. One has been allowed to kill them at the next corner, completely unpunished, for they have no rights, no personal rights in this respect, they were indeed free from birds. In this regard, there are shocking stories that can be read to tell you how this has happened in practice, but this would be the framework of a foreign-political debate in this House, from this debate. During the speeches of my two previous speakers, I have remembered that the honourable Member, Ermacora, has blessed him, in his farewell speech, has called this pult the most important speaker's pulp of the Republic. From this speaker's desk you will also have to talk about these dark facets of history on another occasion. In fact, these Avnoj provisions have been the basis for one of the approximately 750 000 – 750 000! – Old-Austrian German tongues in the former Yugoslavia have driven a little more than half out of the country that has killed a little bit smaller. Simple and simple. There's things there! A high priest, who came from there, told me in St. Pölten tells the following – a spiritual official, not Bishop Krenn –: It was the population of a small town – about 10,000 inhabitants; at least relatively large – held in a large sports grounds, and it said: All children up to 15 years of age must be given tomorrow at 3 p.m. It's not enough to imagine what happened there. In fact, all of these thousands of children have been taken away the next day, from the infants to the half - growing. You've never heard or seen anything from these kids again: Avnoj provisions! Today, 53 years later, these provisions have long since been eliminated from the legal foundation by the successor states, such as Croatia. Another State, for example Slovenia, has expressly included these provisions in the Denationalisation Act of 20. 11th@item: inlistbox It was adopted in 1991. So he has not overlooked that there is still this, not forgetting it, not representing the point of view, that is already a long time ago by desuetudo or for what reasons increasingly no longer a legal component. No, no, no, He has expressly included it in this legal provision. This is relatively practical, because it means that even today, on the basis of these provisions, you still do not have to grant any rights to Altösterreichers of German tongues, but theoretically – this is no longer so simple in practice – can take everything away without the illegal content having been in accordance with the national rules and should actually kill them. Of course, it's not that easy anymore. It appears, however, that it is the responsibility of the responsible person for the Old Austrians that hardly anyone can trust in censuses that ask for the mother tongue to write in "German" because he still remembers well, which, in the truest sense of the word, has had devastating consequences in his own youth or with his parents or grandparents. In this context, it will probably be seen that the recent census in Slovenia, in this small state, has not given between 50,000 and 60 000 people an indication of their native language – I claim that they have agreed to do so. When it comes to granting the people of the old Austrians in this young state minimum rights, which each minority can easily afford, then one turns the spear and says there is no minority, because no one confesses to it, except a few thousand really courageous people. I think you really have to act here. That is why I would like to present this again in detail and ask the Secretary of State to give me the opportunity, together with the Minister of State and with the staff of the House, to properly appreciate these facts and to give them the appropriate weight. It cannot be assumed that Austria, which has a natural moral defence function with regard to the Old Austrians of German tongues also in Slovenia, solemnly declared from the mouth of its Foreign Minister that it is safe to do so: We will help you on your way to Europe!, but at the same time we can be fed off with the fact that only public places in response to the natural desire to finally drop these historically – if they had ever had a right – are given obsolete provisions that could lead to criminal growth even today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a matter of course! I say this very seriously, without any polemics – it is not a party-political problem –: In 1996, at the threshold of the third millennium after Christ’s birth, it is simply necessary and inevitable to get away from such relics of an immoral past. Young states, which initially stumble against self-confidence, then, as we know Austrians, over time, tend to think that they are too strong to run. But you can tell them energetically: If you value that we help you if you want us not to hinder you, you must write in your program such self-evnoj decisions as the cancellation of these avnoj decisions! That's my concern!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22461	Mr Zweytick is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22482	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! This problem raised by my predecessor regarding the recognition of German-speaking minorities concerns minorities all over the world. We too have long supported the recognition of minorities, with the aim of peacefully resolving this conflict in the interests of these people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means that we have the most intense dialogue with the people concerned in this region. And this dialogue – I do it more easily because I live on the border with Slovenia and have a lot of friends in Marburg – is also being conducted with those concerned. It is a dialogue of peace, of mutual relations, of the over-the-Zaun view and of interlocutory speech. It is about security in the future, peace and the preservation of their achievements from the past. These people today are mostly older people who are satisfied and hope. They warn of such legitimate strikes on these human rights issues in their Republic, today Slovenia. They want the intentions of other countries to be pursued with feelings and far-sighted views in the sense of these people. These people do not necessarily demand their rights, they have their rights. These human rights are different from those in Austria, Hungary, but these people are professing to do so. They just want the right to have peace and justice. They accept this condition and are also willing to accept that these rights are of Europe-wide importance. For them, a Europe-wide joint dialogue on this will continue in the future. The dialogue is different depending on the affected groups, whether it is now in the South Styria or in Carinthia. I believe that the common dialogue on these human rights and groups of peoples should be intensified, because it is only possible to achieve real improvements if there are uniform confessions and, above all, proposals and wishes in this area, which can be achieved in the context of their sense of realization. Then there will be the fastest decisions on this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am always happy when I get together with the people and, above all, I can also have a good dialogue. There will then be more than just a dialogue, namely understanding, stories from history, from the past. In my region is for me at a good Glaserl Wine the common song and singing very important. Today, this is really a culture that is being praised almost only in Carinthia, but is becoming more and more rare in the other federal states. This song with these German-speaking Slovenians begins in such a way that we sing Slovenian songs first and then German songs – and vice versa. We have a lot of public schools along our border, in which we offer Slovenian lessons. It is also strongly adopted in order to cooperate more closely with each other. It is more about common ground than about any rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister Mock said today that Europe should be the other word for peace in the future. Peace is already a reality in the EU. For some Eastern countries, especially if one compares it with others, for example former Yugoslavia, one cannot say that. But this Europe must also stand for security and be responsible for it. This means that the ticking time bombs at our eastern border are also one of the most important objectives of our foreign policy in and for Europe. Ten years after the Chernobyl accident, thousands of mute victims sue. You can't defend yourself. But we are already: with increased intervention by all representatives of the people in the House, with the greatest solidarity of all Europeans for an atomic-free future! We must also, above all, ensure security for the next century with regard to the future of our children in this Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Personally, I am 70 kilometers from Krško. This is home to my steiric, but also my Carinthian friends; Home, but connected with fear, because Krško is one of the most dangerous reactors. A popular survey for a referendum for shutting down the reactor must first succeed those Slovenians who want to carry it out. In addition, however, Croatia owns 50 percent of the nuclear power plant and currently rejects any discussion on alternative solutions. In particular, due to the forthcoming accession to the Council of Europe, increased international pressure should be exerted on Croatia in relation to rapid talks with Krško and consequences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore tabled a motion for a resolution by Mr Zweytick, Mr Leikam, Mr Schweitzer, Mr Barmüller and Mr Wabl, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for your solidarity in this joint motion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22595	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22619	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my view, in today's very high level foreign policy debate, a subject has still not been discussed. [[Call for the call.]] – Thank you for the warning call, I’ll try not to be real. In my view, a subject which has rightly been discussed in recent years, very much by Austria, where the balance sheet has to be considered very critically, very carefully, namely what was actually realized by these speeches: the wide area of external environmental policy, so that an essential issue of security policy, and specifically, in order to mention it more closely, of course, the area of Austrian anti-atomic policy, which the former Minister of the Environment has already addressed in her speech today. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not necessary to look at the documentation sent in the last few days on "Chernobyl disaster – ten years later", I hope all of us have so much, very good in mind, what happened at that time, and know how serious the effects are still – not only on the ground, but in large circles of Europe. I was last Sunday with representatives of the UN on a local eye-catching in Chernobyl. The picture that is available there is still a devastating, depressing, worrying health consequences, which, just after ten years in a massive increase in the rate of cancer, now proveable genetic changes, and so on, continue to be apprehensive. No one can really judge how serious the health consequences will be in the long term. All this is hypothesis. In any case, however, they are no longer impoverishable, no longer limited in time. If you have been following the reports from Ukraine yesterday and tonight about the forest fire that was created in the Chernobyl region in the 30-kilometre zone, and here you hear that because of the fact that it continues to be a massive contamination, especially through caesium, in the area of this safety zone in the soils, in the plants et cetera, caesium has been massively released, you can imagine that this is a life-threatening mortgage that was left to us ten years ago, which will probably follow us in this life-threatening way for decades to come. In view of this fact, the fact that one wants to continue the reactor 1 and 3 on the ground with 5 000 employees is actually a daily humane act. Especially the reactor 3 is only separated by a wall from the sarcophagus, at any time the spark can skip, there can be a chain reaction in the sarcophagus and therefore reactor 3 also goes towards a major accident. In Ukraine, as a consequence of the G-7 summit of Moscow, which has finished blamingly in terms of nuclear issues, a historic opportunity has also appeared on the weekend, reports that Ukraine is now trying to invest more strongly in nuclear energy. It is actually about two reactor blocks, which have been standing still for years and are ready for 60 percent: These are the reactor sites of Rovno and Chmelnizki – both located in the southwest Ukraine. They are now to be financed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the intervention of the G7, there is a request from a lender interested in Austria, namely the East Bank, the EBRD, with the same potential operators as we have experienced in the case of Mochovce, namely Siemens, Framatom and Electricité de France. So a 10 billion-billion-shilling mission to expand Ukraine's nuclear path into new high-risk WWER-1000 reactors, which is the sister reactor for the Temelin line. If the EBRD actually accepts this G7 request, this would mean that Austrian capital flows directly into eastern nuclear development, directly into Ukraine's nuclear development. We will therefore take the opportunity here today to urge the Federal Government very strongly to submit its veto as a member country of the EBRD on this G 7 credit proposal. It cannot be, and it must not be that ten years after the Chernobyl disaster, nuclear reactors in Eastern Europe are being rebuilt. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I think there can be some clarification from the government side today. I expect the same approach as in the case of Mochovce. We will also be in the European Parliament – I hope to support all the political groups in this House and its Members in the European Parliament – of course at the next possible occasion – this is the session of 8th, 9. May – to become an initiative to reach a veto of the European Parliament against these financing concepts, against these 10 billion concepts for new nuclear reactors in Ukraine – as I said, then also with Austrian capital participation! - That's the one area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, We have already achieved some significant breakthroughs in this Parliament last year, some very, very positive decisions on Austrian anti-atomic policy. At two meetings in July and in February last year, this Parliament adopted a series of offensive measures for a committed Austrian anti-atomic foreign policy. I was very glad that it was all-party decisions in this House that required the Federal Government to take very concrete measures to take very concrete steps. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Well, after a year, one can take stock: These measures, from these steps, have so far become very few. There are very important areas, around 90 percent of the applications that are not fulfilled by the Federal Government until today. There are very important areas which have not even been addressed. There are very important areas where the Federal Government has done exactly the opposite of what Parliament committed itself to last year; for example, the massive circumcision of the East Eco Fund as an opportunity to act quickly. Parliament – you can remember – on 9 October. Last February's call for a clear increase in the funding of these funding instruments was made by Parliament. The reality is that of the former 250 million schillings of the East Eco Fund, only 150 million shillings are left in the new budget. And even these are no longer explicitly devoted to the Eastern European area as a general environmental promotion. It can therefore be said that this sum has at least been halved. In view of the call and the clear resolution of Parliament, this is on and on its own a farce which, I believe, Parliament cannot fail and cannot accept. Parliament's further request, which has not yet been met by the Federal Government: the conversion of Euratom from a clear nuclear promotion community to an exodus community. There were no activities of the Federal Government in this respect. And if one reads the intention report from Monday this week regarding the Intergovernmental Conference in autumn of this year, it is depressing to note that the word "Euratom", the conversion and the Austrian demands do not occur, even the word "Atom" does not occur any more. There is no longer even one byword, there is no more word about it. This issue has been abandoned, and this is actually a sad sign for this federal government ten years after Chernobyl, and for the promises that have been constantly proclaimed, we want to achieve a change of the internal market in Europe. Now we would have the opportunity at this Intergovernmental Conference to put nuclear policy on the agenda or to apply for it, but it was played in a rather sad way. The following requirements are also open: Atomic liability, revision of bilateral nuclear agreements, applications for changes in the International Atomic Energy Agency and exit concepts for scrap tractors at our border to allow neighbouring governments to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a sad record after this breakthrough last February, following these five-party decisions. I have been thinking for a long time about whether we should now apply for a decision on the part of Parliament, so to speak, but I believe that the efficiency of decisions does not increase if we repeat them four or five times, but it is quite simply by each party that we have to call on the Federal Government to implement it as quickly as possible, which would not only correspond to the safety needs of the Austrians, but would also force the implementation of the call for the withdrawal from these scrap reactors, the danger of life within them. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But it doesn't stay there, it's still an interesting letter with date 4. On the road of March 1996, I would like to draw the undivided attention of the Secretary of State, as it is a letter from the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to this package of so positive, offensive anti-atomic decisions of Parliament. I read to you the interesting paragraph – I quote: As regards your reference to the resolution of the National Council of 9 June 1988. It should be noted, first, that this resolution has lost its validity with the dissolution of the National Council, which it has decided, and the resignation of the Federal Government to which it is addressed, on the possible completion of the Mochovce nuclear power station, as an example of these dozen concrete decisions of the House. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] Mrs. State Secretary! I cannot imagine that this is serious. This is a rhythm, an increase in this House, so under the motto, now we have to make the same decisions every year, who knows, perhaps the government comes back to us. Maybe we'll be re-elected, then we'll have to go through the same procedure again. That can't be meant! Jobs It is clear to you today that Parliament's decisions on anti-atomic measures, these demands to the Federal Government of last February are still in charge of this federal government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is, I think, very essential, because if you do not make this statement here, we must make the effort to bring the same requests back. We can save ourselves this procedure if we have a clear statement from the government bank. Third area: I hope that today's Krško decision, today's Krško proposal, will not be the same as last year's decisions. I am glad that Mr Wabl, who is a precursor to the closure of Krško, has succeeded in formulating a five-party proposal which, for the first time, provides for concrete measures which, for the first time, will also apply directly to the Slovenian Government and which, at this sensitive stage, could substantially determine Slovenia's national decision on Krško, if there are indeed concrete alternative offers, to provide concrete aid. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One year after these anti-atomic applications, ten years after Chernobyl, one has to say: The balance sheet is sad, the balance sheet of the Federal Government with regard to this anti-atomic policy is sad! We have an incredible accumulation of announcements, promises of measures, but that has not yet been done. I have the feeling that this federal government has fallen into deep resignation in anti-atomic politics, it seems apathetic. An antiatomy sleep is clearly achievable, but it is also the only one to be heard of concrete protests, of concrete exit concepts, of concrete initiatives within the EU. There is nothing to be heard about concrete alliances, for example with other non-atomic countries in Europe. I hope that, in the light of this debate on the tenth anniversary of Chernobyl, which is now again becoming more intense, this Federal Government will acknowledge that Parliament's decisions are being taken seriously, and that it will be reawakening, a new offensive of the anti-atomic policy of the Austrian Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22673	Mrs Jäger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22694	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From year to year there are more Austrians who travel to the countries of the south on holiday; there are the longing for the beauty of Caribbean beaches, the adventures in the rain forest and the fascination of foreign peoples and cultures. Our high-performance technology and globalisation make this possible. The globalisation of the economy, however, also leads to the choice of the world's most favourable production sites due to free world trade and new means of communication and transport. It has already been mentioned several times today: We now have an economic upturn, especially in Asia. We feel the effects of this globalisation of the economy every day – I'm just thinking about how many industrial sites are being relocated in Austria. On the one hand, by liberalising world trade, we can buy all the products in this world, on the other hand, fewer and fewer people can share in this prosperity. In addition, more and more people also get to feel the shadows of this industrialization and technology. The irrevocable destruction of entire landscapes is just an example of this. My previous speaker has already mentioned what is happening in Russia after the Chernobyl disaster. Increasing environmental disasters result in an increase in world population, in distribution wars and in rural flight. The sad pictures of this present will be shown to us daily via television. It is true that all the facts about the state of the world are on the table. There is no lack of knowledge, but a lack of political action! At several major world conferences – I am thinking of the environmental conference in Rio, the World Women's Conference and the World Social Summit in Copenhagen – the major social and environmental problems have been presented. 108 Heads of State or Government have called in Copenhagen on the social summit to cooperate between governments and non-governmental organisations to tackle the global social problems. We must now implement these political promises to improve the living conditions of the majority of people. We are all called upon to play an active part in the implementation of these decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Development cooperation is a valuable contribution to our political future and is a command of the hour. I would like to add three areas of problem which can be seen in this context. First of all, this is global debt. Above all, states and governments in the so-called Third World are often threatened with financial ruin. The high debt burden not only threatens governments, but millions of people are at present at risk of living. According to the World Bank World Development Report 1995, foreign debt of the 45 poorest countries amounted to 1 100 billion schilling. In order to meet these commitments only approximately, the indebted countries increase exports, which, in turn, results in much of the destruction of nature and migration. In this context, I welcome the debt cancellation promised by the Austrian Chancellor in Copenhagen for the poorest countries in the south at the level of 1 billion schilling and I am convinced that we can start this year with the realization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Smart political action is not always popular, but I still think that this debt cancellation was urgently necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Impoverishment and impoverishment. Today, a number of previous speakers have mentioned that African countries are being removed from the world market because they cannot offer interesting products. It cannot be left to these countries of poverty, to allow wars to begin in these countries, so that people are totally wretched. 1.3 billion people live in absolute poverty, and we have 800 million unemployed worldwide. According to OECD and GATT calculations, two thirds of trade profits – liberalisation of trade – are due to OECD countries and only one-sixth to developing countries. The third problem I would like to address is the increasing global environmental problems caused by the expansion of industrial production, by the destruction of traditional production, such as agriculture, and by global transport. At present, 20 percent of mankind consume 80 percent of resources and energy. And for purely ecological reasons, it is impossible for the remaining 80 percent to develop their industry to the extent that we imagine industrial development. According to reports from Asia, there is a growth of 15 to 20 percent from China. For example, on three Germans a car comes, and on 2,000 Chinese now comes a car. If within ten years the number of cars increases to the extent that we do, then we know that from all climate reports, this does not last. Political action must be such that we are beginning to manage resource and energy savings, simply because we cannot ban other countries from this industrial development. It is important to shape the economy today in such a way that resources and energies are saved. Perhaps in future we will also have the opportunity to offer new environmental technologies on the market. I am sure that in these Asian countries, too, people will see a massive reduction in the quality of life when unhindered growth occurs. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on Austrian development cooperation. I know that, although we ourselves have difficulties and a package of savings, we are among the rich industrialized countries. It is therefore quite simply necessary that we spend money on development cooperation. We have also made a reduction in development policy. Nevertheless, the overall amount of the development aid budget without budget overrun is higher than in the previous year, and I am already happy about that. And I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that we will also receive this 100 million budget, which would then bring about the same as last year, for development cooperation this year. Overall, I can say that we have more money available for development cooperation, because we paid 800 million to the EU Development Fund in 1995 and 800 million Schilling in 1998. I have looked at the OECD's audit report. It states that the quality of Austrian development cooperation is still to be improved, that, in particular, too high a percentage of export promotion, refugee care costs and university costs of foreign students are charged, and that, so to speak, only 14 percent of the total amount of bilateral aid is spent. Most of the funds are managed by the Minister of Finance: payments to the major financial institutions, the World Bank, the World Monetary Fund and export promotion. While the projects of the Development Assistance Department of the Foreign Office are available at any time, are verifiable at any time, there is no transparency for the World Bank projects. And my wish would be, as I see it as urgently necessary, that at least once a year a report by the Minister of Finance on these World Bank projects be presented to Parliament. In my opinion, it would be even better to set up an independent Commission, based on the Swiss model, which, in dialogue with the Austrian representative at the World Bank, will review the projects. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote Gustav now Heinemann: The capital invests only where there is something to gain. But politics must also be involved where there is something to lose. For whoever wants to take care of himself today is playing with the future of others as well. I am in principle in favour of improving development cooperation, and I am sure that if the major social and environmental problems of this century are not solved, all of us, including in the industrialized countries, will experience the effects dramatically. The migration movements alone – which is certainly also interesting for you from the Freeman – from Africa, from other parts of the world, will also bring insoluble problems for European governments. That is why it is necessary for us in Europe to secure and continuously increase financial resources for development cooperation in the coming years – despite limited state finances. However, we are also called upon to promote fair trade which strengthens the countries of the south. I'm just thinking about how cheap raw materials are there and how much it would help if, for example, coffee or other products were a little more expensive. In this context, we are also called upon as consumers to support fair trade. Above all, however, it is important to build structures around the world that limit the unhindered liberalism of world trade and increase social and environmental standards – not least for the protection of workers worldwide. – We could also re-establish the slave economy when we go here and say that we are not competitive because we have such high wages, we are orienting ourselves to the wages paid in other countries, to dictatorships, where people cannot help or where people can't care that they get more salary, but if we do, we are getting back more and more. I do not think that this will ultimately bring about a change in world trade. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, It is all our responsibility to implement the decisions of the last major global conferences. Although I know that Austria is a small country, that perhaps we do not have so many opportunities, I think, within the framework of the EU, within the framework of the international organisations – the Minister has already mentioned this today – we should constantly address our concerns in this direction. I welcome the fact that we are committed to democratisation and respect for human rights, because these are prerequisites for the economy to grow in other parts of the world in such a way that the social wealth that is then acquired will be distributed and that these people too will have so much money in hand that world trade will circulate so to speak. That is what we want, and that is also in our own interest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22815	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Meschberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22837	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Minister has found that South Tyrol is of particular importance to him. I believe that South Tyrol policy here in the House is unfortunately a little neglected in God's face from earlier times. No speaker has referred to this issue that is so important to us. I believe that in the coming future, it is a very important task for Austria to support the German and Ladin peoples' groups. The task area is divided into two parts: On the one hand, it is important to ensure that the autonomous rights granted to the South Tyroleans by the package closure are no longer undermined, and on the other hand, the possibilities that the three Tyroleans have in the course of the European agreement to overcome the separation of the country are optimally exploited. [[Abg. Oils: Thank God the right hand has become weaker in Italy!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But not in South Tyrol!]] – As so often, Mr Oellinger is ill-informed. I believe that the role of defence power in the future is particularly important, because we have to recognize from recent events that many things have not been done through the resolution of the dispute. Especially in the debate about the European Office of the Chambers of Commerce of Tyrol, which wanted to set up a joint office for cooperation in Brussels, it was shown that this dispute settlement came far too early to bring about an actual agreement within the meaning of the European idea in Tyrol. As far as the Federal Minister for Defence is concerned, I must say that there has been a loss of quality in this regard, which is noticeable to us. When it turned from Mock to Kussel, it was so that both had one thing in common: They both liked to say again and again that South Tyrol was a matter of heart to them. At Federal Minister Mock one could feel this; unfortunately, at Federal Minister Schüssel, I have to realize from the feeling that the whole thing is less a noticeable matter of heart than a lip confession. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs State Secretary has personal reasons to work for South Tyrol! That's the better person to answer!]] - Well, that already had several. I believe that the South Tyrol policy of the Federal Minister Schüssel is rather at the Roman level, that he much prefers to talk to his colleague Agnelli about the problems of the South Tyroleans and much less with the South Tyroleans themselves. This is a "chiantized" South Tyrol policy, as they currently cannot be required by the South Tyroleans. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this "chiantized" South Tyrol policy means nothing but that the role of defence power is increasingly sacrificed for having a pleasant interlocutor at EU level with Italy. We also note that official opinions on events in South Tyrol have to be missed at a time when the official Italy is partly falling back into the period of colonial thinking and is acting against the South Tyroleans as if the 1960s had not yet passed. We also recognize from the few examples of recent times that it will be a further way until all Italians see that Italianisation is not possible. I have taken an example, which shows how to deal with young South Tyroleans, including the Carabinieri. There has been the following – and this is not a single case –: A young South Tyroler is faced with three Italian Carabinieri in South Tyrol half a year after his presence, military service, when he left a local carabinieri. There has been a conflict, and there have been grievances. The South Tyrol was obliged to disfellowship; it then continued with an ad, and ultimately the whole thing ended with a military trial in Verona. He was accused of reproaching the nation, and this was ultimately negotiated at the military court in Verona. In another EU country, it would be impossible for a citizen to end up in front of the military court who is arrears over the state. I'm thinking about Austria: If it were also true in Austria that anyone who turns down on politicians, the government or the state would be in court in times of the savings package would be half the country in prisons or in court. But in South Tyrol this is still going on and there. The fact that two measures are measured between Italians and South Tyrol, as they say about the state, shows the process of Bossi in the election debate. He is free to condone 25 million southern Italians as parasites and to demand the ransom of Northern Italy from central Italy. There is not even a protest in far-off areas, let alone that one speaks of the reproach of the state or even takes judicial action against it. I believe that much of the official Italians see the autonomy status that the South Tyroleans currently have only as an annoying intermediate step up to the full integration of South Tyrol in Italy. And if you see how fast the judges are at hand with the criminal code, then it is, I believe, very much at the time that the official Austria is also dissociating from such practices or fulfilling its protective role and also expressing it openly. I also lack official reactions from our Federal Minister in relation to the scandal about the EU Office already mentioned. For those who have not followed this, very briefly: It is all about the fact that the Chambers of Commerce from the three separate parts of Tyrol have decided to operate an office together in Brussels to maintain cooperation according to the European idea. This was based on land day decisions from all parts of the country of 1992 and has been placed there in the sense of the European idea. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With Vorarlberg then still!]] Legal partners for the establishment of this office were the Chambers of Commerce. Shortly before the opening, there was strong criticism from Rome. One simply did not want to understand why two countries from different EU countries want to work together in one office. It has seen an attack on the "irversity" of the Republic of Italy, and it has also been appreciated. Finally, the opening went over stage without the official representation of Italy. The story has really gone on scandalously: The heads of state Andreotti from Trentino and Durnwalder from South Tyrol were displayed by a member of the Alleanza Nazionale, of the MSI. The "Digos", the political state police, then carried out house searches in the country day, among the national leaders and listed other scandalous things. There has then been nothing but an exchange of letters between Klestil and Scalfaro in the performance of the role of protection of the Austrian side, with Klestil mentioning only lapidar, one has talked about bilateral relations, including this EU office of the Tyroleans in Brussels, while Scalfaro has very probably expressed his opinion and said that he believes that this is contrary to the Maastricht Treaties and to the Italian Constitution. – One has tried to calm us down in Austria, and has faked a loose round of talks. However, Scalfaro still refuses to sign under the law that would officially allow the operation of this office. This is the situation – it cannot be imagined in other countries. The following questions must be asked: What is the value of autonomy in South Tyrol even if there are legal decisions at the national and EU level for the joint office of cooperation, which ultimately lead to the official Italy initiating ad hoc proceedings against national leaders and leading to house searches? What is the function – that is the second question – of Austria’s protective power, which does not give a response to such a procedure? I believe – I would repeat this – that the good relations with Mrs Agnelli and with the official Italy, in order to have a relaxed basis for discussion at EU level, are far more important to you than the autonomous rights of the South Tyroleans, although the federal state of Tyrol is double affected on this particular issue – on the one hand, against South Tyrol as a defence force, on the other hand, the federal state of Tyrol, and on the other hand, it should be our own interest that it has relations with the separated part of the country. This is the "heart affair" that Minister Schüssel always loves to speak about. I'm just wondering which heart he's talking about. For South Tyrol itself, I would like to say a word. As far as the clearance of the package is concerned, I believe that it is precisely these procedures that demonstrate the rightness of the decision of the liberals to reject this declaration of dispute or the conclusion of the package at that time. It does nothing for us if there is a great minority protection for the South Tyroleans, for the German and Ladin groups on the paper, but the reality is quite another and we today, because it is no longer a dispute, can only very difficult to intervene in these areas. The whole situation is particularly evident in the light of the elections held last weekend in Italy. I believe that this Left Alliance, as Mr Oellinger said, has won in Italy as a whole, but it is likely that there has been a clear and very sharp right wing in South Tyrol itself. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was so pleased about the Communist victory in Italy that he confused the sides!]] – He sees all this a bit biting side-turned. This right-wing train in South Tyrol has nothing good in itself for the future, even as far as the autonomy rules are concerned. It is true that, in the parliamentary constituency of autonomous Members, Chiocci no longer came into the Chamber. In his place, Mr Frattini is there, who is a particularly autonomy-friendly representative, if I may say so, representing the city of Bolzano. We suspect or fear, or we must be careful not to create tensions that call into question the autonomy of the South Tyroleans. This is my request to you, Mr Federal Minister, Mrs State Secretary, that, even if in the recent past negligences have occurred, you are particularly clear of your role as defence representatives of the Republic of Austria towards the South Tyroleans in the future and are also aware of them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the still open case Unterkircher, which is already known to the Hohes Haus: It is a woman who has not known to date whether she has committed a border violation between North and South Tyrol. It is thought that this was a depressing attempt by the Italian intelligence service. Anyway, the matter has not been clarified to this day. This woman is still in detention in Italy. It would be nice to take care of the arrest or intervene, to initiate a deportation to Austria, so that this unloving chapter in Tyrolean history can finally be completed. – I don’t think I need to mention that any more, it has been said again and again and often. The same applies to the black lists and to the still existing arrest warrants for South Tyrol freedom fighters, so that one can finally close the Attendeckel and, after more than 30 years, establish the basis for organizing a peaceful co-existence between the peoples. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, on another subject. It was discussed in the Committee on Budgetary Consultations of the basic purchase for the new office building in Berlin. The price, i.e. 127 million Schilling, has been relatively high for the mere sale of land in Berlin. We have tried to discuss this with the Federal Minister. In answer to the question of whether it is right to spend 127 million schilling on the ground in times of the savings package, where one does not even know exactly how many twenty million may still be necessary for the construction of the building on this property, he asked us whether the Austrian delegation in Berlin should perhaps camping or camping. He's done this with it. We see it differently. I mean, if one is to take the savings package debate seriously from the responsible government, it should be dealt with differently in the public with such sums. I leave this to the House for its own assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22949	Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e22971	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuhrmann gave me the key word earlier when I came in, and he said "Latin America". I would then like to take this key word again and address my priorities in government work, and this is the globalisation of Austrian foreign policy, which, ladies and gentlemen, has been made possible, in particular, or only by our accession to the EU. It is only now that we are really recognized as a full member of the State community. Only now will the conversation and dialogue be sought with us. I am just coming back from the Rio Conference and the EU countries in Cochabamba, Bolivia, from this multilateral summit, which was really important and which discussed three major issues: The first was sustainable development and our joint contributions to sustainable development – that is, also an important development policy issue – and the second important issue was the problem of drugs – I am going to address them briefly, because it is also very important for Austria – and the third issue was a much stronger exchange of the economy, possible further investment, trade liberalisation – something that is also very essential in terms of enhanced exports. I would just like to address Cochabamba at the moment, but of course my trips are not only about Latin America, but also about Asia. But also the whole Mediterranean region, the Middle East, is an area where, on the one hand, we are much more required to stand as partners, on the other hand, but on the other hand, we can do much more. I just remember, for example, the Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona, which I also took part in and where we are participating in both political dialogue and increased economic and investment cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to address the issue of tyre exports to Japan in this context, as Mr Haider mentioned today. Ladies and gentlemen! I myself was in Japan in January, myself addressed the subject there, both with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the MITI. Of course, we also need to see the circumstances – I don't want to go into the details now – that led to our large exports at that time. Of course, we are continuing our efforts, but of course we must also be internationally competitive, and unfortunately this is not the case at Semperit, as much as I would like to have it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has told a different story before the referendum! He said it would go on!]] Mr Stadler! However, I can also tell you that, for example, in June, a round table with the Japanese economy's wire-drawers, that is, the MITI businessmen themselves and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will take place because I want to try to find new export markets there or where gaps are to fill them if I am successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Conti has taken over the Japan market, this is in an APA message today!]] I don't know yet, but I wouldn't want to have a dialogue with you now. I'm allowed to go on. I would like to take the United Nations as the second most important point, because foreign policy is becoming increasingly complex and problems need to be solved at international level, which is why, as the United Nations headquarters, we naturally have a great interest in being as well represented as possible. Especially at a time when the United Nations is in a financial crisis, it is very important to have efficient structures. This includes the UN seat in Vienna in particular – you know, this is also one of the points where I am particularly involved. Not only do I keep in constant contact with the Secretary-General – I intend to visit Boutros-Ghali again in New York in about a month; the date is already fixed – I am also trying to bring in everything for the organizations based in Vienna to get it fully in Vienna, which is unfortunately not so obvious in today's trend situation in the United Nations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to take a short look at the situation of UNIDO. As you know, this is an organization which, since its existence, has had to reduce almost half of its employees, but now, through Austrian interventions and through the possibility of mobilising the international community, can be preserved in this form, I hope. I am also thinking – and I am now returning to it again – about the drug unit. You know, we have the UN Drug Control Unit here, and it has just been this day that an important Commission has been working on drugs and the fight against drugs, in particular on a subject that was also discussed in Cochabamba, namely that both producer countries and consumer countries must work together to solve this problem. Of course, Austria plays a very important role as the seat state of this organization; an organization that has good opportunities to continue to grow in the future, because it is entirely, very essential. The same applies to the "crime prevention", the crime prevention, and, of course, to the nuclear energy organisation, which is one of the most efficient UN organizations in the world. In this context, I would like to focus very briefly on the so-called CTBTO, the "Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization", which is the Atomic Test Stop Control Organisation. They know that I am particularly interested in bringing this organization to Vienna. Austria is still the only candidate, but in the background, of course, there are some others, including Bonn and Geneva. We must therefore make our offer very, very good to bring here this organization, which would create many synergies with the nuclear energy authority, which would allow us to obtain about 300 more staff at the height of the organization. I am very confident that we will succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last word on the United Nations. I would also like to say that the United Nations plays an important role in Vienna in terms of the "orphaned conflicts". "Orphaned conflicts" are those conflicts that do not necessarily dominate daily reporting, but which also exist and where we have an important role in preventive diplomacy. I only call East Timor, where, for example, we have established a dialogue in Schlaining – already the second time – and where we will certainly have written history once this problem can be resolved. – That on these issues. I would just like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Anschober and tell him that, of course, the Austrian Federal Government will continue to pursue the same nuclear policy in the future as in the past. We reject the use of nuclear power and have as many alternatives as possible. We also represent this in all our bilateral discussions. It was precisely the Federal Minister who, when he was in Slovenia, also signed an agreement on nuclear safety. Such an agreement was reached on 29 July. 3. was also paraphed with Belarus, and the signature is prepared. The opening of negotiations on a relevant agreement was agreed with Switzerland. – So here too there is no change in our policy. In South Tyrol I would just like to say: Here too, although there has now been an official conclusion and dispute resolution, we are of course still protective power. I think one should not make politics with feelings, but rational. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] All these problems are repeatedly discussed in bilateral discussions, whether this is expressed in letters or not, Mr Meischberger. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23055	Mr Brader is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23076	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to take your appreciated attention very briefly and address some of the points of Austrian development cooperation. Today, by Mrs Jäger and also by Mrs Kammerlander, we have heard some very well-founded points. I would like to say that, if not completely relaxed, the situation has improved considerably. In the previous year, because of the non-disbursement or the late disbursement of the 300 million by the Minister of Finance, Austrian development cooperation was particularly difficult at the NGO level. Now the situation is better again, and we can, because of this fact, turn to points that are not necessarily just about money. For example, we can think about how we can make this development cooperation more efficient, more precise, more targeted. One of these points seems to me to be ensuring EU co-financing for projects in priority countries. A second point is the development of well-defined country programmes and the opening up of development policies with the involvement of science and the increased involvement of the economy. I also believe, as Mrs Jäger said, that coordination with the representatives of Austria in the multilateral financial institutions should be sought. I would like to say that we welcome them to the debt relief initiative, but we see some open questions and problems. If a SWAPS debt is discharged, the beneficiary country is obliged to invest some of these liabilities in socially sustainable projects. And that's exactly where I see a problem. I believe that the debt situation in some countries is already so serious that they do not create these projects. These development aid loans, whose repayment is due only in about 15 years, are now to be set up in return for a project, which will certainly lead to problems. The next problem is that we cannot give up any of the countries that owe us something, but that we have to make a choice of whom we give these losses; that is what we have to look at. But it must be clear to us – I believe that this is still far too little rooted in the awareness of the population – that the situation in the developing countries has more and more implications for our lives. I do not understand that, for example, economically weak developing countries are being asked to leave their natural resources intact in the service of the environment, but on the other hand, those who benefit from it do not contribute. People in the Third World are always accused of having too many children. The situation is quite different, however, because: Does it really make sense for the inhabitants of developing countries to have fewer than six children as long as there is no pension? The reality is that three children die, two migrates and, when it comes up, remains one that may then take care of the old parents. As long as the situation is so, nothing will change. We have to look at this situation and, in recognition of economic reality, do everything we can to help these countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23124	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23146	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. I regret the fact that the Federal Minister has now left because I wanted to address my word to him because I connect something with him. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is extremely anti-female!]] No, no, no, You, Mrs State Secretary, were neither in your current role at the time nor did you take part in the parliamentary discussion when it came to recognizing Croatia and Slovenia. Today, the day of Croatia’s accession to the Council of Europe – although not yet formal. As I have now drawn from the APA, the Parliamentary Assembly, with numerous abstentions and numerous votes against, has decided to include Croatia in the Council of Europe. I see this as a great commitment for Austria. I therefore see it as a great commitment for Austria because, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last year, I also used vehemently for the inclusion of Croatia in the Council of Europe, especially with the argument not to measure by two measures. This commitment and commitment to Croatia as an Austrian neighbouring country – as such I consider it to be, although we do not now have an immediate common border, but culturally, historically, Croatia has always been an Austrian neighboring country, and this should remain in the transferred sense – but also means that we – we Austrians, I think – have a special commitment to Croatia, now that Croatia is a member of the Council of Europe, these points which the Council of Europe has made as a condition – there are a total of 26 points that have been linked to the inclusion. Croatia is not a country, my honour is Ladies and gentlemen, in which human rights, minority rights, freedom of the press and fundamental rights are particularly respected in the sense we understand them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not in Russia either!]] I would just like to remind you of the way in which we sometimes feel that we are doing so with the confirmation of the Mayor of Zagreb. For me, it is not understandable, with what Lapidar reply the President of Croatia responded in the Council of Europe. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. State Secretary nods by chance! This is the old reflex against Croatia! Russia is allowed to take easy Chechens! How a mayor is elected in Croatia plays a role, but Russia is allowed to attack Chechnya!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is a very special obligation, out of our historical understanding, to put our fingers in the wounds with other countries in particular. Mr Stadler! I do not think it is funny at all, and I do not think it is worth noting, if I tell you that I have received schoolbooks from Croatia, schoolbooks which have now been officially adopted by the Republic of Croatia and are also used in schools where there are harmonies of the Jasenovac concentration camp. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't like it either! It's not funny what you're talking about! It is not funny that Russia is attacking Chechnya!]] This really affects me – as a Croatian, but also as an Austrian with a lot of commitment to Croatia – particularly negative. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You with your commitment to Croatia! If you compare a mayor of Croatia with Chechnya, then you know who the mind child you are! Croatia has earned a better representation!]] These are things where I believe that we should not be content with a polite – almost I am inclined to say – patch with Mr Tudjman, President of the State, but rather find very clear words, because Croatia is also dependent on our help in dealing with what it has to bear on both economically and relatively poor countries, but above all because of the war situation now. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, Mrs State Secretary, I ask you to pay particular attention to these standards. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There was the Mock speech even better!]] I would just like to mention one which is a permanent cause for complaint: the situation of freedom of the press in Croatia. This leaves more than to be desired. Everyone knows, but hardly anyone says it. I shall now come to my second point. You know – the Federal Minister also knows – that I am a Green minority spokesperson and was particularly involved in this field in the past. I am particularly concerned about what the Council of Europe considers to be a programme in the field of minority rights and people's rights, as well as its implementation at national level. The Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities and the Convention on the Protection of Regional Minority Languages is something we succeeded in achieving at least a resolution by all parties at the beginning of this year, so that this can finally be ratified in Austria. I would ask the Federal Minister – and you ask him to say that – not to wait until the end of the year, but to implement it immediately, because, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, we are not mature in Europe on this point, we are not even mature in Europe in this respect, with 40 Member States in the Council of Europe since today, in which the democratic standard is quite different. Of course, the standard set by the Council of Europe for states such as Austria is different from those for countries like Romania. There are failures of Austria in the past and especially in the present, things that are absolutely not European. Tag: topographic inscriptions, keyword: bilingual education in the fourth class folk school. All of these are rights guaranteed in the Treaty of Vienna, but where the Austrian Federal Government and the National Council don't even pull the eyelashes if you don't do anything there. These are fair rights which individual citizens, even the whole group of people, have to fight to the highest courts in order to ultimately obtain these rights. This, Mrs State Secretary – you nodd, I assume you are committed to me – is not an international standard that would bring Austria glory in Europe or worldwide. But that is something that would be quite easy to put off by fulfilling these rights. Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty is therefore so important to me, because there are always these discussions here – I have already said this yesterday in my speech, so I repeat it very briefly now – about the declaration of an obsolescence of individual passages or of the Vienna State Treaty as a whole. Article 7 is the Magna Charter of Popular Rights in Austria. I can tell you that it is an intense concern for the groups and the members of the Austrian peoples to preserve these rights and that there can be no compensation for these rights through bilateral agreements with anyone. The announcement by the Slovenian Foreign Minister Thaler, which he inadvertently made just in Vienna, to wish to conclude a bilateral agreement with Austria, which should work the same way, is not the way we wish. The next point I want to raise is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister in connection with the application of the third country clause in the Austrian Asylum Act. I have discovered the following due to parliamentary questions: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows much more than the Ministry of the Interior, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows which countries in this world are subject to the death penalty. This is not known by the Ministry of the Interior and, due to the third country clause, is moving away completely unhindered people in such countries. Could you not contact the responsible ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior and thus contribute to this – the Minister of the Interior is probably sitting in the Council of Ministers right next to the Foreign Minister – that there is coordination? There are conflicting responses from the interior and the outside. This is of existential importance for some – thank God not for many – people. Of existential importance is the information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can give to the Ministry of the Interior, where death penalty threatens. I would really ask you – even if only a few people are affected – to do so. One last: I hear so many complaints about the situation in Austrian consulates in some countries when it comes to tourist visas. In particular, I hear complaints about arbitrarily and unmistakable refusal of tourist visas to family members, i.e. to people who wish to visit members of Austria, especially from the consulate in Zagreb, which still has the agendas of the now established message in Sarajevo, as far as consular matters are concerned. I do not understand that, Mrs. State Secretary – I have had numerous discussions and I have also collected facts. I would like to ask you – I have now also put a written parliamentary question – to make it clear. Because I know that the consulates' staff are working almost around the clock – at least this feeling is what they feel – that they are working especially hard. I have the impression, however, that from the point of view of the management, we do not pay particular attention to whether there is a specific situation in Zagreb now, due to the Bosnia-Herzegovina war, and that there is a much, much larger work attack there. Can we not better coordinate this from the point of view of the department? The sufferers are people, such as Goraýde or Srbrenica, who have been trapped in the boiler for years, now want to visit their relatives in Austria for a short time, but fail in the Austrian bureaucracy, things that are not caused by the involuntary nature of the individual, but – and that was assured to me – due to discharges from the ministry. Mrs State Secretary, please address this to the Federal Minister. I would like to say something last but not least, which has surprised me. Mr Meischberger, who has been talking about South Tyrol for a long time here, has obviously overlooked something, misunderstanded or misestimated. If I have correctly understood the reaction of his party chairman Dr. Haider, he has deeply regretted the outcome of the election in Italy. He regrets that the post-fascists have not won. But Mr Meischberger obviously does not get all together in his head, which would mean for South Tyrol. Everyone knows how the attitude of post-fascists in Italy in connection with South Tyrol is as regards autonomy in South Tyrol. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do the Communists say?]] Thank God, I can only say that Mr. Dr. Haider has had to regret the outcome of the election. Mr Meischberger, I would recommend that, before he gives large-scale speeches here, he think about what the leader Parole was on these issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23267	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23288	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since the debate on foreign policy is drawing to a close and I have the opportunity to make a few points as last-notified members of the EIA, I would like to concentrate on taking a position on those points that have been taken up during the debate, where I believe that some clarification should be made. First of all, on the comments made by Mr Stoisits, who criticised actions in Croatia in a very committed form. Mr Stoisits! I believe - I hope that this view is very shared by a lot of colleagues in this House - that wherever human rights violations occur we have to react consistently to them. I believe that human rights as such are indivisible. Who else, as free, democratically elected representatives in the Western area of this world, should show this – and we should do it everywhere! Only: If, on the one hand, Croatia is highly criticised and, on the other hand, Russia is faced with a great deal of goodwill and it is less critical of what I sometimes read from your contributions to the debate, then I must say that we should proceed everywhere according to the same standards. What do I mean by that? If Russia has been included in the Council of Europe, but Croatia's inclusion is rejected for perhaps also existing human rights violations, I believe, there really are not the same standards. I am in favour of attacking human rights violations everywhere and of tackling the same standards to all countries where human rights violations are committed. That should be a common position! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly – because you have tailored human rights –: I am not satisfied with the situation in Croatia or with the situation in Russia or Turkey. There are also many other countries to mention. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: I am also not satisfied with Moldova and Albania!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stoisits! Let me say one thing: I was very happy when Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister, the first of the three key priorities of foreign policy, called Austria's commitment to human rights policy. I think it is a very important process, if you want, even a very symbolic one when it comes first. We, through all political groups, have expressed the following position in this Second Republic: We have to show human rights violations – unfortunately, in the vast majority of states – and not only the Foreign Minister has to do this, but this has to be done everywhere where people, especially of course, are represented by parliamentarians in Austria. If we do this consistently, this is something that is enormously positive for Austria and for the image of Austria in the whole world policy area and can benefit us in our assessment. That is our conviction, and we must live up to this conviction. It is for this reason that human rights policy, as a central issue of foreign policy, is given this importance. I believe that we should continue to deepen this position, this focus on foreign policy in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On another point: It has delivered a critical opinion on South Tyrol – I would like to address it briefly. This is, of course, unacceptable to him, but he has also said that Mr Schüssel would talk much more about South Tyrol with Foreign Minister Agnelli than about politics with the South Tyroleans. – Mr Meischberger! I'm not going to the other points you brought. He is also not present, but the colleagues will certainly tell him. One thing is clear: We have had regular contacts not only now through Dr. Schüssel, but also earlier with those responsible in South Tyrol. The steps have been taken in each case. Already next week is the next contact with those responsible for South Tyrol. And if anyone can really point to a constant policy, then, I mean, it's Dr. Schüssel, Dr. Mock and their predecessors. South Tyrol has a heart concern for the respective Austrian foreign policy. This will remain the same in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last point: There have been some aspects, critical opinions, but also positive opinions on our policy within the European Union. It is true that there are also problems, problems. However, I believe that the attitude we have now taken in foreign policy – or de facto that it has become a European internal policy – within the framework of the EU is the following – that applies in general to policy: Fear of challenges would be the worst attitude you can take. We must not be afraid, but we must take advantage of the opportunities that arise – and these opportunities exist – in the knowledge that we have structures to change that, of course, we have offensives in the economic field and in other areas. We have these opportunities. Dr. Schüssel quoted the Swiss President, who meant: It is much better to be inside, to see these opportunities from within and to be able to benefit from them than to be outside and suffer all the disadvantages. In this sense: If foreign policy is based on optimism, hope, and confidence, on the attitude to view problems as such, but on challenges that are feasible, then, I believe, we will also face the challenges we face. In this sense, we agree with the People's Party of this foreign policy, and hence also with the 1996 and 1997 budgets chapter – and that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23346	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23367	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say a word about the statements made by Mrs Stoisits, who dealt with Croatia. If you are right in some areas, I must point out, since it has referred to the Council of Europe, whose members I am, that the question of human rights and the conditions of access for membership of the Council of Europe and therefore also in principle within the Western Community must not be measured by two measures. The Council of Europe has distanced itself from its previous practice by a large majority in the reception of Russia – despite the Chechen war – that a candidate, before becoming a member of the European Union, must meet all these requirements. It has been said that this is a kind of performance to support the democratic forces. As we learn from the newspapers every day, it has not been very useful. In Croatia, which has been – and this has to be said – a state that has been attacked by a terrorist regime, where human rights problems are of course also present, there are now suddenly different standards. Today, Wednesday, the Council of Europe will vote on this question. I do not know how this vote will take place, but the same forces – all of them from the left camp – who have been very committed to the Russian reception request now suddenly argue against Croatia's reception and say that Croatia had to meet these requirements before. I believe – and I agree with Mr Höchtl – that human rights cannot be shared. Don't see all of this through the ideological glasses. We must draw up a directive, and it must be consistently observed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Mock said something very interesting at the beginning of this debate. He said: In the future, security policy will only be organised together with the other countries. He said not to speak of a new security architecture that will eventually build up, because nothing new will come. And he also expressed his sympathy for WEU and NATO membership at the same time. I fully agree with the former Foreign Minister here. It is only the question, ladies and gentlemen – even from the People's Party and from the Foreign Minister – that has already been heard similar reports, as is then put into practice. As we saw yesterday in the defense of the state: There are good ideas, good statements and good demands, but in practice we see quite little from the People's Party again. Mrs. State Secretary! We have seen this in the government's programme for the Intergovernmental Conference. The aim should be to make progress in building a common foreign and security policy and building a European peace order. But you don't realize at all that you're becoming offensive that you're bringing in your own ideas. We are always listening, you are waiting for what the outcome of this Intergovernmental Conference will be. Mrs. State Secretary! We should not have participated, because we could have seen from the outside what the others were doing. The purpose of full membership, of participation, is, of course, to bring in our own initiatives! Tell us if that's not true! What is your view of things now? What does Austria want with regard to future security architecture? What will a European security system look like in the future? Would Austria like to participate with all its rights and obligations? Or do we just want to watch from outside, watch a little bit, give good tips, maybe we'll pay a little bit for it, but if you're serious, we'll get out of it? Mrs. State Secretary! If you represent this line – so far you have not done so – then you will still comment on it today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, in May, a delegation from the Austrian Parliament will again participate in a meeting of the NATO General Assembly, at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly – as observers. As observers, we can sit and listen to and observe what states like Russia, Moldova, Albania, Bulgaria, Romania and others there are discussing and how they work together with NATO members on NATO enlargement, on building a new security system. The reality, Mrs State Secretary, is that you have succeeded in your government policy, that Austria, as a Western state, has now been overtaken by states such as Albania in international integration into security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister is already here! You can tell him that!]] – The Minister is there, wonderful! Perhaps he will also give an opinion on why we are so blocked in this regard. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen: The government could not agree on an offensive course in security policy. There is, of course, a great deal of responsibility for the social democrats, because they continue to adhere to the dogma of neutrality, although everyone knows that they have no value at all today's security policy. Neutrality has had a strong historical value for Austria, but what value this neutrality might still have in security policy today, namely as a protection against an aggressor, one has to explain to me once again. It could already have a value if one really takes it seriously, just like the Swiss, but I believe that it cannot be a sense and purpose of a reasonable security policy to operate completely isolated and alone national defence and thus also security policy. On the contrary. It should be the duty of the hour, together with the other states, but as a full partner, to enter into these security debates without building up any dogmas without saying: Yes, we are watching, we are discussing, but in truth we are going to stick to this neutrality. You are even going a step further, ladies and gentlemen: They assume the obligations arising from such cooperation, such as in the participation of Austrian soldiers in the IFOR mission, including financial participation, but without being able to take advantage of the rights arising from such an alliance. For the right to be under this protection of the Community is limited to members. This commitment to neutrality, and also to the fact, Mr Foreign Minister, that you have not been able to put up with your group with your very reasonable approaches, we have to deal with such shortcomings here. Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide to enter into international cooperation, as has been said by honourable Member Mock today, we should not talk about the hot brie and say: We will be WEU member, but not NATO member. Everyone knows, ladies and gentlemen: That won't be too separate. A WEU membership without NATO membership is not possible. And I think it is totally missing that such a taboo of NATO should be carried out. NATO has changed, and it is currently the only functioning security system that can also give real security guarantees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is certainly also to be criticized. We are particularly not satisfied with the American influence in NATO. We have seen this in Bosnia too, but unfortunately we have to note that the Europeans are not yet able and unwilling to take their own security into their own hands and also to finance from their own pockets. As long as this is so, we just have to stretch to the ceiling, and there NATO is the only existing and functioning security system. Federal Minister! We would expect you not only to find clear words in this security debate, but also finally to follow those words. We all know that these are processes that take years, but we have to start discussing and making decisions. Until all of this is realized, it will take time, but if you continue to hesitate and let the socialists slow us down, you will continue to remove security policy, and this endangers the security of Austria in a serious case.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23431	I have no further comments on the subject of external affairs. That concludes the debate. Economic affairs Chapter 63: Trade, trade, industry, tourism Chapter 64: Constructions and technology (including business plan)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23464	We are now negotiating the field of economic affairs. Mr Prinzhorn has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23488	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As a new member, I of course studied the Coalition Agreement very carefully. There are long-standing findings in this. My joy was really great. The consolidation of the federal budget is a central concern for economic policy in the light of development. - How right! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of reducing the net deficit from over 5 per cent to 2.5, 3 per cent – how right! You write: For example, if the reorganisation is achieved through the increase in wage and income tax, then the limits of the tax burden would simply have been reached for a long time if you wanted to make further increases. Budget adjustment must therefore be made on the part of the expenditure side. The immediate elaboration, it is said, of a longer-term reorganisation package and of the influence of the necessary legislative changes, the lurking of extraordinary proceeds through the sale of federal assets. It is even about a one-and-a-half-percent savings in the cost of activity without extra-performance compensation, and you do not even want to re-occupy half of the public administrations. The number of posts must be reduced, it is said, and extraordinary proceeds must be made by the sale of federal assets. They're all good news towards slim state. Can you imagine how big my horror was when I read the date of this coalition agreement – I am just a new member? – It was the 16th century. January 1987, ladies and gentlemen, the day on which the working agreement of the Socialist Party of Austria and the Austrian People's Party has sent us this good news. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We actually get to hear such good news every day. I heard from the Federal Government today and yesterday, it will now be reinvested – the interest rates have fallen. I'll tell you: Investment is due to long-term interest rates and not short-term interest rates. This allows you to reach car imports and car purchases at best. We have already taken note of most of the car purchases after the Second World War, which makes our current account deficit even bigger, but not smaller. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the cash flow of companies is also being invested because they are too afraid of entering into new long-term liabilities. But the Federal Chancellor, who was an excellent bank director for a long time, did not want to say that when he reported on it yesterday. The Greens' spokesperson, Van der Bellen, has also said today that the horse would be stowed from the wrong side and that it would reach the single market with the Brechstange Euro instead of producing the single market beforehand and then introducing the euro as a logical consequence. I believe that we are well advised to note that the number of industrial workers in the last nine years has fallen steadily. This decline in industrial employment figures will reach a new peak this year with a further 5 percent minus. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are the "frequent messages", which may be supplemented by the fact that in the early news you hear from the head of state Pröll that the jobs can be obtained at Semperit. I recommend you read the "Economic Week" of tomorrow. There's what's going on inside and what's going to be moved to Aachen. These are things we've been trying to explain for a long time. There are no conditions for this, and ideas such as those of Mr Pröll's head of state may come from the Intenburg St. Pölten, from bureaucrats, but not from where the true business is made, not from where the true revenues are made, not from where the investment decisions are made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grade: Where are you doing your sales, Mr. Prinzhorn?]] The guarantees of jobs, ladies and gentlemen, have been as long as the guarantees of pensions from the 17th century. December. There is no guarantee of the value of pensions, but one will simply have to accept the loss of real pensions, just as we have had to accept the loss of jobs in recent years, because we have not created new ones. And in that, I think, is our problem. As your colleague Novotny rightly says – and I must say he is an honest, upright person –: Since 1980, the number of jobs in public administration has increased by 44 percent. We have 44 percent more officials who have to deal with this flood of law and this chaos, ladies and gentlemen. And if we are talking about deregulation, like your Minister Weiss, your Minister Lössnak and Dr Neisser did, then I can only say to you: ==References====External links== There has also been a reorganisation of the budget and the conditions for the Austrian economy in January 1987. The flood of law takes on an enormity, and there can be no question of legislation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As we struggle with homemade problems, the restructuring continues worldwide, and while the speed of change is constantly increasing, we insist on umbilical viewing and do not think beyond the edge of the plate. Faith You're telling me: As an entrepreneur, I don't really like it at all! John F. Kennedy once said: If people are able to replace work with machines, people are also able to create sufficient work again, Minister Löschnak. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I really have to tell you: I am missing these people today and here in this Parliament. [[Abg. Kiss: What does that have to do with the deletion nuke?]] What is Austria in international comparison, Mr Deputies? Where is it? [[Abg. Kiss: What does this have to do with Löschnak?]] We have been talking about legislative changes and the reduction of bureaucracy for many years, and these were very essential things. But you may not have been in Parliament for so long, Mr Kiss. [[Abg. Kiss: What does this have to do with Franz Lösnak?]] You must be told by a new Member who was responsible, Mr Deputies. That's sad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The information society that comes to us also requires restructuring of ORF and telephone monopoly. We have the development there – I don't trust to say it at all, because otherwise you turn up – a bissel sleeps. While in Europe hundreds of private stations in the television sector are invigorating the labour market in the service sector, we are fighting for competence and approval. Postprivatisation is another example. While trying to distribute 115 billion schilling in the context of post-privatisation, twice as high a telephone fee in Austria is faced by Sweden and many other countries. I can only recommend one thing: If you make a lot of calls abroad, just like I do a foreign phone number, because the phone fees are half there, but you can't use an Austrian station. This is a sad development, I can tell you, this is a sad development! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: You are an Austrian!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am an international citizen and I am very concerned about Austria, honourable Member. I'm very worried about Austria. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Just keep going, just talk! If you had as many ideas as you now call, I must tell you that we would be different in economic policy. But also in the technology field there is a dispute about competences between the ministries and institutions. Innovation is constantly creating new potential for the future worldwide. The sins of the past, I tell you, face the lack of ideas for the future, namely your lack of ideas. [[Abg. Koppler: How do we stand?]] Mr Koppler, we have a big problem at Semperit, because we are losing tire production in Austria. Listen carefully to what happens to the car production so you can remember when it's so far: Today it costs a Styrian Chrysler in Austria $40,000. The same Chrysler, with the same equipment, costs 25 000 dollars in America, and the freight costs make up 500 dollars. And I'll tell you: If the individual approval problems are solved here, our children will order the Chrysler via the Internet. And I'm afraid at $25,500 for an import chrysler, he won't just come from Graz as we would like to see it. Then we'll get rid of the tires and the cars! [[Congratulations to the Freeman and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! As little as you prepared Austria for the EU yesterday, you do not prepare Austria with its economic policy to meet tomorrow's needs. We liberals want to secure jobs through innovation, but not through bureaucracy and competence, as is currently the case in innovation promotion. We are therefore tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The OECD average, please, 3 percent for research funding, is not 1.5 percent like with us. Please enable Austria to create jobs for the future through innovation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Entrepreneurs who cannot estimate the future will soon start their business, Minister. New entrepreneurs are building up, there are new jobs. They will soon be able to do so by the government: They will have to look for new jobs. I would like you to make it easier for you to do so than the Austrian industry is currently. Don't look at what's going on, Minister. They write and say so gladly: Look what's going on. Don't look at what's going on, but you have courage to act! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or is the desire for flexible working hours, which you are always expressing and which is particularly important for the recovery of the labour market, being exchanged against the desire of the Social Democrats for the liberalisation of the trade regulations? – The fact is that Austria as an economic location has very high costs, but we do not actually show any approaches to change. The additional wage costs to Switzerland are such that the net wages, i.e. what people earn per hour of work – so that they don't get a mess again – are 70 percent higher, while the additional wage costs in Switzerland are 60 percent lower. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if you do not match the definition of additional wage costs, ask the ILO, at the international organization. There, the definition is acted in this way and not in any other way. On environmental costs, Minister. . We have entered the EU with our environmental legislation and have said that we will be able to make positive contributions in the EU, all of Europe will be pleased with our environmental laws that are groundbreaking in a wide range of areas, although very distorting competition. But what is the EU doing, Mr. Minister? – There you turn the axles, send us into the next millennium and say: This is your problem, if your industry and economy are so disadvantaged, we are not thinking of adopting your legislation. That's what we mean when we say: Preparation for the EU, Minister. Brussels is a mess for our concerns, and therefore we are disappointed – even though we are, of course, at EU level. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We are inside today, but we do not want to experience the same with the euro again, as Professor Van der Bellen said, we want to pick up the horse from the wrong side. Dependences, Mr Minister, care costs through the flood of law and regulatory also increase in this load package. We heard it today: 22 percent public servants, only 6 percent self-employed, final light in Europe, 15 percent pension costs on gross domestic product. – And there is not everything in it at all. As regards the pension liabilities of the pensions received today, you can read about Professor Holzmann in Saarbrücken, this expert. For the pension liabilities of the pensions received today, 7 000 billion Schilling liabilities in pensions account for only 1,500 billion payments. And I ask you who wants to guarantee pensions and does not ultimately make false promises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the pension guarantee, which we made on 17 November, is the same as the pension guarantee. In December, just before the election, three months later, you had to stop holding pensions and lose them in real terms, then you must not complain of pessimism and consumer refusal in the economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the capital market also lacks in your concept, the development of the capital market. Don't forget, Austria is developing country with 4 percent shareholders in the population. We only have more India behind us, the rest of the world is ahead of us. These are development problems! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But our own initiative is very much being strangled. We already know this from the debate on compulsory insurance and compulsory insurance, Mr Feurstein. So I have to tell you: Mr President, this has shaken me from you. I would have expected it from Mr Guggenberger, but I did not expect it from you. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is a total misbehavior of yours! I'm very disappointed with you! That's a joke!]] But the self-employed person has never done anything to you, but always only the cared for person, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Deputies! You can come out and talk! Come on, Mr. Feurstein! You can report, then you're in! I also regret Mr Vice-Chancellor when he makes proposals for self-sufficiency. If Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel makes proposals for self-retaining in medicines and at the next moment Your health spokesman, Rasinger, comes and says that he thinks nothing about this, namely the market economy and the principle of performance, only speaks the same language. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: (next to the place of Abg. Dr. Khol) You've, unfortunately, confused that!]] – Mr Rasinger! Come a little closer, I hear a little bad. All of this fits well into the image of privatisation. – The range around the privatisation of the e-business also shows very impressively. Mr. Vice-Chancellor writes a book – really a sympathetic book: "More private, less state"; it is also 10, 15 years old; I still see his presentation at the Wiener Hilton Hotel – in which he emphasizes the importance of this 2nd anniversary. Nationalization law finally brings down. But I have to tell you that he has not enforced the big brother, the SPÖ, and I therefore believe that it is right to put forward a motion for a resolution again in order to recall that – what I am doing with it. This motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you do this, we may not be able to remain at this point again because of the fact that the privatisation of the e-business, the competition of the e-business and the federalisation of Europe and the world are of course being driven forward. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially respect for the difficult task we face in Europe – and we in Austria in particular –: They have been on the question of Austrian economic and industrial policy in the last nine years, since 17th century. January 1987, very little to nothing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have also made life worse for us in 1996 with rising numbers of unemployed people and have salted the prospects! Insolvency records will be on the agenda and the first quarter of 1996 will speak a clear language. And I have to tell you: The structural budget deficits have not even addressed you in the approach! And if you, ladies and gentlemen, believe that as an entrepreneur I must not be alarmed and not alerted, then you have really been out of control. But if you believe that I am happy as an opposition politician of this state, then you are even more mistaken!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23798	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23822	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The budget debate we are currently holding has, in any case, started a trend change, which I should like to note at the outset. The measures taken here were correct steps in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that in the past I have already proposed some of the things that are now being decided and that I have been criticized by many in the past, including some in this House, when I warned that we are living in some areas about our conditions and that we should not give up anything we cannot earn. But by the majority of the hard-working people in our country, I believe I have been quite properly understood for a long time. If we have found some of the important things in the new government paper, it is gratifying and will certainly now give us the opportunity to make corrections where it is necessary. But if we want to keep the economy in our country competitive or want to improve competitiveness, that is certainly not enough. Ladies and gentlemen! These days, especially in this budget debate, there is a lot of balance. Everyone uses that word and that term in a different way, if I may say so. And I am not alone with the assessment that this word is also being misused so often, because it is ultimately a matter of understanding that it is only possible to distribute what is being worked out and what is available. Those who do not believe this are invited to talk to an entrepreneur, such as a small craftsman or a tramper, about leisure, social balance, retirement age, illness, vacation and so on. And the Austrian entrepreneurs contribute significantly and above average to the renovation of the Austrian state budget! On the other hand, however, we also need certain reliefs – I would like to carry out this even more precisely today – which must not only be material in nature, but which help to facilitate the business environment: The red tape, the flexibility of working time, the reduction of wage costs are essential points, as I would also like to see carried out. In the face of a positive view into the future, we must note that the insolvency statistics in recent months are already worrying us a little. And if the businessmen are sometimes taken to breath, ladies and gentlemen, then we also have the air out – this knowledge and the right conclusions that we should draw from it, secure and at least create more jobs and finance our social networks better than so-called state employment programmes, position papers or decisions only from the green table. Because if I – and I say this very critically, ladies and gentlemen – sometimes hear the word "employment programme", I wonder what is meant by it. Jobs cannot be decreed, jobs cannot simply be decided at the green table, and jobs are created by companies – by competitive companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this area there are also steps in the right direction and corrections. It is certainly necessary to talk about the economic location of Austria, about safe jobs and about competitiveness and to confess to them, but it is a matter of course. To implement this is the other, and that is why we must make every effort. This requires entrepreneurs with far-sighted vision, initiative and risk-takingness, as well as a state that at least supports entrepreneurs in their tasks and does not hinder them in carrying out their tasks. I would like to make a critical comment here. For example, if I read the new evaluation paper, which is under the Workers' Protection Act, I think that this is certainly not the right way to encourage entrepreneurs or gain new entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Entrepreneurs need their time to think and work and not to fill out forms on the side. I would like to point this out clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask all those responsible to think what to do if one wants to set in motion a wave of foundation, a wave of founders, if one wants to find new entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Kill: get rid of it! Kill the chambers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly need new, even many new entrepreneurs to create the jobs we need in the future. With all the problems we are facing, ladies and gentlemen, it would also be wrong – certainly wrong! – to push the blame for the problems we face together to the accession of Austria to the European Union, as some people are so happy to do. I would like to make it quite clear here that this accession to the European Union has brought additional investment to Austria, additional branches which, at least in the year of accession, have given us additional work. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's exports to the European Union have also developed positively, and inflation is not as low as it has been for a long time. That certainly depends on that. This low inflation has also made credit interest rates for new investment cheaper. This is certainly also a positive point, because the reduction of these interest rates by 1 percent alone brings about 7 to 8 billion schilling for the recovery of the economy. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the investment climate in Austria has developed quite well in the first year of accession. Ladies and gentlemen! We face difficult tasks together, but excessive pessimism harms everyone, not least the economy, that is, the company itself. And they are the only ones who can create and provide employment on their own. Without a positive attitude to the future, no one can become or remain a business owner. We do not need illusionist beauties, ladies and gentlemen, but a healthy realism, even in connection with the so often conjured and often praised as a miracle source. There, too, realism and help for self-help are in need. I believe that this would be an appropriate way of supporting the founding wave in order to get closer to the goal of creating new businesses. In Austria, as we have done, I recognise the goal of creating a number of thousands or thousands of businesses in order to achieve and promote the goal of getting new jobs. But the framework conditions must, of course, vote. This includes, of course, well-founded, professional and, above all, commercially suitable entrepreneurs. It also includes appropriate financing models that start up in capital formation, but in particular as little bureaucracy as possible, as we prevent business start-ups. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, let me say one thing: We talk so much about liberalisation, easy access to entrepreneurship, and say very often: The company's start-ups are not as advanced as we would wish, because the trade regulation prevents one from becoming very easily independent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Then do something! Then it'll change!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is certainly a wide bow, depending on what he imagines. One wants to do away with the entrepreneurship examination or the proof of competence, another to set up a farm on each street corner, another to see in the company's creation a mere instrument for the accommodation of unemployed and for the beauty of employment statistics. Ladies and gentlemen! The need to facilitate access to entrepreneurship must be seen as a whole. Liberalisation cannot be a one-way road. And it is only with beautiful words here that you can certainly not reach that the self - making is promoted. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about liberalisation, we have to think about it: It is to be facilitated by the trade regulations to make themselves independent. But it is urgently necessary to remove bureaucratic obstacles. It usually takes place in such a way that some give up before he has become independent. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, the qualification cannot be that prevents self-employment. The management of a company that is responsible for employees is certainly at least as difficult as driving a car. And the management of a company must certainly be reserved for those who have appropriate entrepreneurship, courage to become self-employed, also to take risks and who can also prove this qualification. In addition, at a time when consumer protection is increasingly being forced, in which an increasing sense of responsibility is required by the trader, it cannot be so that less and less necessary conditions are required for training. And if you are constantly talking about better training in the profession – and I believe that this will become even more important in the future than ever – this better training is also the prerequisite to make yourself independent. I am in favour of facilitating access to industrial and commercial activities. However, this is only possible if the business environment is correct. I am thinking here of the urgent need to take steps with regard to the permits. The investment law is also urgently to be explored. It would be important to react much faster than before. It is necessary to concentrate the approval negotiations and to ensure that someone who wants to make himself independent can also very quickly implement this idea and this desire. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I say that liberalisation is not a one-way road, I mean that the same conditions must apply to all, namely the same conditions between the different professional groups, both in tax and in other conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a common task in politics to prepare the Austrian economy thoroughly for a largely liberal world market. Even after dealing with the budget problems, there will be no lack of economic challenges if one thinks only of the growing competition from the Eastern European neighbouring countries, of additional competition from the European Union or of the reorganisation of the World Trade Organisation with the hard competition from Asia. But I would like to be very clear and clear: It will not help us to deal with the problems. If we take the right steps, we take the sleeves, we take the economic future of our country self-consciously and also with optimism in hand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian entrepreneurs are certainly willing to do so if, as I have already said, they are given more air to breathing, reducing bureaucratic barriers and giving them more time to think and act, leaving them with this most valuable time they need to develop their businesses. In this sense, I recognize the necessary reorganisation measures, if you can also look at certain points from different sides. But the right steps have been taken. Now it is up to us to take the next steps and to support the economy in its efforts to further improve competition.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23918	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e23947	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Economic Affairs has been very busy in recent weeks and months. Mr. Federal Minister Ditz! They were chief negotiators in the coalition negotiations, you were responsible for the savings package in your party, and you have all subordinated to one goal, namely the achievement of economic and monetary union. I hope, Minister of Economic Affairs, in your mind and in our sense and in the sense of our country, that we will succeed in achieving this economic and monetary union. The means you have used to achieve the goal was a structural adjustment package: "98 on a string", which we could already criticize in detail. Reactive constitutional provisions, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties – and we will often blame you – do not create legal certainty! Federal Minister! In order to achieve the objective of economic and monetary union, you have paid a high price by permanently weakening international confidence in Austria's economic location. Investors in Austria are affected by the fact that it is not very far from legal certainty in that country. They have further undermined fundamental rights in our country. It is not possible for the citizen today to have the Constitutional Court examine retroactive laws which you have set up. I think this is a serious intervention in fundamental rights. They have also weakened the self-financing power of companies, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs. They have decided to ban losses – to bring just one example – for the years 1996 and 1997. This means that, although losses are present, a greater part of the company's profit goes to the State and remains less self-financing, which, of course, can also reduce investment. They have further increased labour costs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In the debate on the social chapter on the work contracts, I have explicitly recognised the need to include, with us Liberals, works contracts in the social security obligation according to precise definition criteria, but to reduce rates and not by increasing the absolute volume of contributions! You have, Minister of Economic Affairs, in order to increase labour costs! Unfortunately, that's a fact! In the end, however, they have also worsened the cost of the companies, because energy taxes, which do not at the same time face a reduction in labour costs, mean an increase in the costs of the company. There is no doubt that this weakens the investment power of companies, strengthens the insolvency and continues to put jobs at risk. Minister for Economic Affairs! I hope that you and our country and all of us, together with the sum of these victims we have brought, will achieve economic and monetary union in the first round. I even think I can be safe. But the question we have to ask ourselves is: What's next? Will our hope for a clear economic upturn in order to be able to stop the holes in the 1998 budget, which were created by tax advances in 1996 and 1997? Will this economic upturn actually come? Will it come to economic dynamics in order to create the 1998 budget, or will we face the same mourning that the coalition parties delivered in the summer of 1995, up to new elections, from summer 1997? They have chosen this way with the Austrian People's Party and with the Social Democratic Party with two-thirds majority. I was very surprised to have followed yesterday's debate, in which a member of the Austrian People's Party meant: What the SPÖ ministers are doing is none of our business! . I have not appreciated the excess reaction of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to it, but in one he is right: The government is a collegial body, and all the ladies and gentlemen of this government jointly bear responsibility for a joint arrangement, and we cannot tolerate this game, where one or the other of the governments seems to be out of the government. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: Politically correct, but the responsibility of the individual minister towards Parliament is laid down.]] Dr. Mock! Of course, ministerial responsibility refers to a single person. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is the question of his being responsible to Parliament!]] I am referring to a further question, Mr Schwarzenberger. I am concerned that, in the present situation, we can afford everything else, just not economic, economic and political instability. I do not think that a dispute about a minister of this Federal Government, as seriously as he may be, can be used as a reason for igniting here and thus endangering the economic stability which we urgently need. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! Since 1986, our ministers of your couleur – the series goes from Graf, Schüssel to Ditz – have remained guilty of many reforms. You, too, owe us these reforms in the savings package and in the structural adjustment package that you have presented to us and which we find today in the 1996 and 1997 budgets. Without these reforms, we, Mr Federal Minister, will not be able to secure the economic location of Austria, which we are talking about and which is an employment location, as Prinzhorn has demonstrated. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] Six essential points – I can take a short look; President Maderthaner, too, thankfully pointed out – are missing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's in a government party who could change it!]] First point: The risk capital market is missing. Secondly, we have a system of support which is completely obsolete and still based on political gratitude, on the can of foundry. We don't have equity promotion. Thirdly, there is no doubt that we do not have a culture of entrepreneurship. In this context, I quote from the speech by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany at a meeting of the Austrian credit protection association. "The Austrians need more entrepreneurship.", said the President of the Federal Republic. "We still have a deep-rooted longing for the full-cascade state, for life-long security. We still tend to distrust the rules of the free market and competition." . As far as Mr President's quote is concerned. Minister for Economic Affairs! They owe us the reform of entrepreneurship, the reduction of anti-equity. There is an anti-equity in this country. All your legal frameworks are not equity-friendly, but they are foreign capital-friendly. Its entire funding system is non-capital-friendly. It is a bank promotion, but by no means the promotion of entrepreneurship risk capital! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] The new culture of entrepreneurship means a free commercial access, which is not, as Maderthaner just said, a rejection of the good training of an entrepreneur. The question is: Who controls the training of an entrepreneur? We liberals claim that the training of an entrepreneur controls the market and – also on the free market – the insurance, which decides which entry premium for the entrepreneurship liability has the well-trained entrepreneur or the poorly trained entrepreneur. Entrepreneurship means finally taking the old word of Churchill seriously when he said: One sees the entrepreneur as the cow one should milk, the other one sees the entrepreneur as the raw dog one has to beat, but only a few understand that the entrepreneurs are the donkeys who pull the cart. We have too little donkey in the Churchillian sense in our country. 6 per cent of self-employed are insufficient. We must develop an entrepreneurship culture that makes it attractive for young people to do something in this country, create jobs, find new solutions. Only: This requires good conditions, but I miss them to a large extent. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Fourth: We're always talking about red tape, Mr. Federal Minister. I've heard a lot of good speeches from you. Only: So far, there is nothing about red tape. Absolutely nothing! A nice example: So a Maronibrater – you've probably read it in the newspaper – wants to set up a maroniofe. He's supposed to talk to all the arrants about 200 meters, whether one has anything against setting up a maroniophe. Federal Minister! We don't get beyond the words. Bureaucracy reduction is more than a keyword, it is a content that we encounter daily as entrepreneurs in our businesses. Fifth point: redundancies on additional wage costs. There is now, in my speech on the social chapter, a link between additional labour costs and unemployment: The higher the additional labour costs in a country, the higher labour costs in a country, the higher the unemployment rate. This has nothing to do with unlimited social reduction, but nothing at all. It has to do with keeping gross wages, keeping social security, but reducing labour costs; we have often been able to discuss them. The sixth essential framework condition, Mr. Federal Minister, is the reduction of the shadow economy. The higher the additional wage costs in a country, the higher the level of taxation in a country, the higher the level of bureaucracy in a country, the higher the shadow economy is almost automatically. Professor Friedrich Schneider – I quote – says: "The shadow economy, which has continuously increased from 7 billion to 165 billion schilling in 1995, has become an important industry in Austria." He continues: "If the shadow economy continues to grow so strongly, fewer and fewer individuals will be willing to pay their taxes honestly if others withdraw taxes to a massive extent due to undeclared work." He continues: "The fight against the shadow economy will have to start with the cause of too high official labour costs. If it is not possible to restore this to an acceptable level by reducing the additional wage costs, the phenomenon of the shadow economy will continue to grow in the coming years and will provide the federal budget with significant tax losses. Overall, these tax losses, depending on how you calculate it, are between 30 and 70 billion schilling." Federal Minister! You have chosen your way, but you also bear the responsibility for it. I can only hope that you will achieve economic and monetary union. You now have time and breath to start and implement all the reforms we have been talking about for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to comment on the situation of the tourism industry in Austria in the second part of my speech. The tourism industry is comparable to the construction industry. The tourism industry and the construction industry have experienced a satisfactory economy by 1992/93 and have thus shown a contrasting trend in our country. While the rest of the economy fell into recession in 1993, there were still reasonable figures. In 1994, 1995 and 1996, the trend has reversed, and both the construction industry and the tourism industry are now facing very difficult problems to solve. In the field of construction, you have recognized these difficulties and have actually acted. They have recognised the need for support for an industry which includes 7 percent of gross domestic product, such as the construction industry. They have led to the expansion of railway infrastructure, they have opened up financial pots to further promote the construction industry, although you know that even there will be a smeared decrease in the construction value in Austria from the above 7 percent to 5 percent internationally necessary. In the area of tourism, Mr. Tourism Minister, nothing has happened. Apart from refusal of reality and health prayers, I have experienced nothing in the last two years in which the tourism industry has fallen into the most severe recession since World War II. The leisure industry comprises 15 percent of gross domestic product – with a declining share. What you should actually alert, ladies and gentlemen, is: Foreigner tourism's foreign exchange income, which in 1990, still amounted to 8.5 percent of gross domestic product, amounted to just over 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in 1995 – with a declining trend. The only measure that has so far been set up by the state governments and – thank God – by the Federal Government in the two budgets was the increase in the communication budgets. I already allowed myself in March 1994 to point out the need to increase the communication budgets. I am grateful that it was late, but yet it happened. The uninformed political polemics were painful at the time. She's directed herself. The analysis of the future of this indispensable industry in our country clearly shows: Tourism is always going from hard-currency countries to soft-currency countries, tourism is always going from high-paid countries to low-paid countries, and cheap flight prices are only easier to reach. This is the structural situation in which we are: a global displacement competition. Nevertheless, I believe that it is important to say this here, to the future of Austria's tourism location. The quality of supply in our country, with all the criticism that is properly expressed, is first-class. We will only be able to play the closeness to the markets when Central Europe recovers economically and when we are involved in economic and monetary union as well as in the Schengen area. Then Austria will be in the middle of Europe's most prosperous areas and will be able to perform its leisure function even better than before. Nature, culture, environmental quality, safety: All of this speaks for the tourist location Austria. Only: The framework conditions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which you are presenting to the tourism sector, will decide how many of these market opportunities I have listed we can use and to what extent we can exploit them. If, as in the past, nothing happens, except for the refusal of reality, I no longer predict for the year 2000, 117 million nights, as in 1995, but only more than 100 million nights, no more than 1.2 million beds, as in 1995, but only more than 800 000 beds, no longer a percentage of 6.5 percent of gross domestic product, but only one such of 5 percent, not 165,000 employees, but only more than 150,000. Even with these figures, Austria remains at the forefront of pan-European tourism development. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, you are going to have a very large market opportunity and also the possibility of rehabilitating the current account. Professional regions, professional places, professional businesses will survive this displacement competition. However, you, Minister of Economic Affairs, must, together with your national councils in the federal states, find an answer to regional policy problems. There are some areas in our beautiful Austria where there is nothing to live except tourism: Either the money of the guests flows to the lake shores there or to the valleys, or the people will settle there. The competitiveness of the tourist site in Austria is therefore on the test. A few points on what you have to do. Minister for Economic Affairs! You must understand that the indirect level of taxation in Austria is, of course, a competitive disadvantage for an industry operating with inclusive prices. Switzerland, which has even worse tourist problems than Austria – it has a very similar situation – reduces VAT on Logis from 6.5 percent to 3 percent. ==References====External links== In 1997, therefore, the Swiss hotelier will be able to offer 7 percent cheaper than his Austrian colleague for VAT reasons alone. This VAT reduction from 10 to 5 percent in the logistics sector, which I have already proposed several times as a compensation for the hard currency policy for the tourism industry, would cost the state 2 billion schilling. I have already allowed myself to open the counter-account several times. The tax on beverages is exactly the same problem: The competitiveness of the secondary costs of the Austrian tourism industry will become worse if the accumulation of drink tax and VAT results in a normal drink of the 15 to 20 percent competitive disadvantage. The second measure, which is necessary in order to increase the competitiveness of Austria's tourism site, concerns all the other points I have raised earlier. Tourism is an industry like any other – with a single difference: that the guest who comes to our country will be recruited by accommodation companies, by regions, by places and spending his direct tourist purchasing power directly in all sectors. There is no industry in which all sectors of our country participate not only in the indirect purchasing power flow, in the multiplier effect, but also in the direct purchasing power flow. Third claim: Federal Minister! We Austrians were excited and generous enough to finance a master plan for the reconstruction of their tourism to our Croatian neighbours. I think this Master Plan is even one of the 81 studies that we discussed last night. I think they co-financed it. But there is no tourist master plan for Austria. Tourism in Austria has grown like the Schwammerl in the forest, it is state-owned, everyone cooks his own soup, at the Wolfgangsee it is once the country Salzburg, once the country Upper Austria, and everywhere it must be a little different: another tourism law, other regulations. We need a tourist master plan to define what the Republic of Austria wants to achieve in tourist conditions for tourism development. The fourth point is the redimensional of the industry, structural change. Federal Minister! Two types of offers will remain. The offer will be a free offer: Apartments, private rentals, where there are no labour costs in itself. These excellent offers will be subject to price competition. Labour-intensive offers can only be in competition with quality. However, on our motorways there are quite a lot of Volkswagen and Ford and few Mercedes and Rolls Royce. But the four- and five-star hotels are now Mercedes and Rolls Royce, which only people with very high income can afford. The redimensionalization of the industry through the full taxation of sales revenues is all around counterproductive and wrong. The last and most important point is the restructuring of brand policy. I have never been one of the critics of the Austrian advertising, because I believe that the people who work there know very well what and what products they have to offer on the market. But a criticism is clearly stated here: Despite long work in the Austrian advertising and also in the foreign trade organization, Austria has failed to position the brand article Austria. I continue to call on Austria to convert advertising from an association to a capital company, to withdraw all foreign influences and to increase its budgets in addition to its basic financing through the sale of services. Cooperation with the External Economic Organisation, with the cultural institutes, the Austrian Institutes is to be compacted, the Austrian Houses in European and worldwide cities must be the goal. Federal Minister! You have brought the savings package and the 1996 and 1997 budgets over the stage with your majority. I hope that you will achieve your goal of joining economic and monetary union. You now have time and air to address the real reforms you have long promised. I'm excited if you'll do it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24044	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24066	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the budget debate is under three particular perspectives: First: It is the two first budgets that we have to draw up and decide upon after our accession to the EU, with regard to the implementation of the economic and monetary union which has already been quoted several times. Secondly, For the first time – at least in my very long time as a parliamentarian – two budgets are decided at once. This is certainly a mammoth activity, and that was often criticized enough, but it was not different. This is also a special aspect of this budget debate. Thirdly, The present situation in most Western European industrialised countries has two causes: The normal ups and downs in the economic cycles now also comes with all the vehemence – I would like to say almost: with all brutality – of globalised competition, which has undoubtedly created enormous employment problems in all EU countries and also non-EU countries. Over the last few weeks, we have also been increasingly involved in issues such as economic downturn and growth weakness in Austria. Of course, it is not to be denied that Austria is in a sensitive situation at the moment, but at a time when all the countries of Europe want to reorganise their budgets at the same time, we cannot expect the feasibility of the impossible. There are, logically, different interpretations of the current situation and development within the next few months. I would like to quote a chief commentator of an industrial magazine, so that it doesn't mean I'm going to measure here to judge the different interpretations, because some passages truly reflect our situation. Commentary writes: Industry produces unintelligent products. There is not enough money for research and development – we have heard all of this today. The social partners are a hopelessly-crustled system. The restrictive trade regulation hinders the creation of enterprises, and so on. He then writes: Some of this may be true. But could it not be that all of us in this country are talking about collective dissatisfaction and writing in as journalists, a dissatisfaction that paralyzes any positive activity that frightens potential business founders and foreign investors? The commentator then concludes that the all-dominant pangs and regrets no longer make the positive events in our economy perceived, so that a mood emerges that ultimately leads to a spiral down in the form of a self-fulfilling prophecy. I said this yesterday in the course of the debate on the urgency of the colleagues of the Freedom Party, and this commentator writes it in a similar way: There is no way to prevent an economic crisis through health. But one can truly produce such a through sick people. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what an independent journalist writes in a magazine that is certainly not close to the Social Democratic Party. What does it really look like? – It would lead too far if I were to discuss the whole situation. I would like to make them transparent on the basis of an example. Since yesterday, the reports and studies of the Austrian National Bank are available to us. Important topic: External trade. Results – due to the organisational changes in the course of EU membership, we have for the first time only the statistical figures for the first half of 1995 –: Exports of goods have grown by 13 percent in the first six months, while imports of goods have grown by 3 percent. The existing data suggest that Austria is likely to have made good use of export opportunities in the EU, so that the trade deficit against the EU has not increased. Imports from Eastern Europe have increased considerably. Similar more can be read here. That is to say, the overall situation of one of the most important parts of our economy works, and it can be said with fug and right that the Austrian foreign trade is much more vital than it is seen in some places. Nevertheless, I note critically: The export rate – and I am certainly at an opinion level with our head of government – as measured in percentages of gross domestic product reached 23.8 percent in the successful 1995 export year. This must be increased, and we therefore welcome the government's export offensive. This is one of those measures that need to be implemented quickly. In our view, what is still necessary in order to be able to successfully meet this scourge of unemployment, which is fraught with unemployment in Western Europe? – A wide range of programmes is necessary; this is beyond discussion. But one thing is important – in this respect I have been mentioned several times –: We must not only talk about it, but we must now do the following – and we Social Democrats are doing this: In the course of the year, this trade regulation must be radically amended and it must be facilitated by access to commercial activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blünegger: 15 years is already being talked about!]] I am pleased that, for example, a few days ago, the Minister of Economic Affairs made it clear in an interview that this is the right way. [[Abg. Blünegger: For years already talking about it!]] Mr President, I am the last person who does not accept this criticism. Helmut Haigermoserwiss that. But this is only possible if you find majority voting. We want to try to go the necessary way together here, because this is what everyone is doing. This is not only a question of blue, red or black entrepreneurs, but also of giving access to any potential Austrian entrepreneur. It must be over with the fact that, if someone – I have already quoted this a few times – wants to report a sausage stand in Vienna, he must know almost 200 laws or regulations. It's an unfavorable thing. So, please, you really can't seriously create a business. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haigermoser.]] We will be very much committed in this regard so that we can get rid of this reform within the year. We're talking about debureaucratisation, we're talking about administrative reform. This is not just federal affairs, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to be able to say, yes, I am really happy that my social democratic friends in the city hall of Vienna will be adopting a new building order in the next few weeks, which will jump over all the shadows. It will be created here this year – in July or August, it will enter into force – a liberality that is exemplary. I am saying this because it can only be a step. We can create a federal framework, but the countries and communities must do so in their area. Only all of this together will result in an economic location in Austria, with which we can cope with the challenges facing our country. As an EU advocate, I have always said this: The next few years will be very brutal, because competition is brutality. We can only exist if we create appropriate framework conditions. That is to say, liberal trade regulations, easier access, debureaucratisation, administrative reform and reforms also in other areas, including where there are disabilities. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What businessman should settle in Austria if he needs three or four years until he has an operating permit? We will propose a total reform of plant rights, as will the call for a concentration in environmental impact assessments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] These are things we need: not words, but actions. And we must not do this in three years, but we must realize it within the year. We will be available for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24147	I call Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24168	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The weekly magazine "Die Zeit" started a series titled "Angstfahrer Weltmarkt" at the beginning of this month. This is a very interesting discussion – as in many other journals – of the consequences of the globalisation of the economy, the consequences of rationalization associated with it, and of course also of the proposals – just as all my four previous speakers have presented here unisono – with the great aim of a comprehensive deregulation. Of course – and I am going to distinguish something about this area – the Austrian economy is facing a pretty big problem. Of course – and I would like to make this clear immediately – I also see that there are many regulations and regulations in many areas. There it is necessary to simplify. But as easily as my previous speakers think, and as simply as deregulation itself will not result in the simple abolition of various administrative procedures, suddenly the so-called large source wave breaks out, since the Federal Government has promised to promote 30 000 or 50,000 new businesses in some form in the next few years. What this is supposed to happen and what the promotions are supposed to look like was not betrayed. In any case, I do not think it will be possible to create a stimulance alone with the new magic word of comprehensive deregulation. We are seeing a rapid change in the world economy. Of course, we are concerned about the real and legitimate fear of social and wage dumping in the industrialized countries because of these enormous differences in the individual social standards, in countries where everyone can, of course, take part in the competition. This is not only a consequence of the accession of Austria to the EU, but it is, of course, much more related to the GATT Treaty and the overall internationalisation. The logical consequence – we have repeatedly discussed this in the chapter on foreign policy here today – of economic and monetary union is only a small facet in this area. Crusades and social climate, so many believe, are now to be abolished, without considering and without seeing what has already happened to examples, where one has seen and still sees that there has been an uprising of declassified middle classes, which can happen also in Austria, if one is to simplify the deregulation of the word. I can say that I am very much in favour of the American path of Reagan and Bush, for example, from my previous speaker, Mr Prinzhorn, but also from Mr Peter. However, it should be borne in mind that America has often been a pioneer country in many areas, including deregulation, that we should welcome many things, but very, very much more than consider them critical. We must see what this has led to and where the great dangers lie. First of all, deregulation has led to enormous unemployment. It was added that the wage shears continued to disperse. If one now speaks of the fact that, after a certain thirst of 10, 12, 15 years in America, the unemployment rate is lower than here in Europe, one must say at the same time that the average American cannot afford to have only one job but usually has at least two jobs and that the lower fifth and the middle fifth of American workers today deserve absolutely less than 15 years ago and that only the highest 5 percent of this deregulation could actually benefit from it and there it has reached an income growth of more than 40 percent. In any case, the differences in income and wealth in the United States are now as large as they have not been since the beginning of this century. We find similar figures in the UK, where the deregulation phase of Prime Minister Thatcher and their successors has also led to the same or similar symptoms. First, there has been a massive rationalisation shift – of course we can now also see this with other factors – but then, of course, this deregulation has led to social tensions and problems that we do not want to afford in Austria or in Europe as a whole. Look at what these big income differences and these social tensions have led to especially in the United States: In every large city there is now a security and crime problem, which costs the public sector far more than is likely to have brought the deregulation measures as a whole from a national economic point of view. That is why, at the end of this century or millennium, there can not only be a solution, just the same or similar sounding as before a hundred years ago, namely a very simple economic liberalism that sounds simplified: Get away with all the regulators; Competition and free trade where it goes; away with the social standards that are terriblely annoying to all of us; away with bureaucratic obstacles; Purely economic liberalism! What led to the end of the last century? – That was the feeding ground of totalitarian systems. That was the thrust for a huge unemployment problem, especially in Europe! [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: That's exactly the other way round!]] These solutions are a bit too simple. We must be able to go a certain medium at the end of this century, which on the one hand reduces unnecessary and obsolete obstacles, but at the same time acknowledges the need for social standards, but also, Mr Heindl, environmental standards, which are necessary, for example in the case of plant permits. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You mean you're gonna do everything now. I always like the representatives of the coalition parties when they so stormily demand the new laws – and that for years. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: I didn't say that! Stay with the truth!]] You said here five minutes ago: The trade regulation is simplified and the environmental impact assessment law needs to be modernised. As I have understood, the permits included here clearly need to be simplified. [[Call to the liberals: That's it!]] A few years ago – that is not even that long ago – the same coalition members have stood here and have passed this EIA law because one has seen that it is necessary to carry out comprehensive tests, especially in large-scale plants – and this EIA law only concerns large-scale plants – because an economy cannot afford to stand up again and again for the external costs that are produced in the business sector. All those who have spoken before me have spoken about individual business benefits – I do not want to say now: individual companies – and not really the state and the economy as a whole – at least not comprehensive enough. I am glad that there are entrepreneurs here in the House - that the debate on the budget is going to lead to an economic policy perspective, and that the economic framework in which we move, and the responsibility that a state has not only for the economy, but above all for workers, for all people and, of course, for the environment in that country, is totally disregarded. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Peter has been very concerned with tourism in detail, because he is a special concern for him. I do not want to do this now, but my particular concern, which I would like to expressly stress and focus on in every economic debate, is the field of energy policy. One just before, just before I forget it: The liberals and the liberals, too, have called for a small country like Austria to benefit from competitive advantages in an internationally difficult situation. - Of course! I totally agree with that. One of the most important areas is, of course, investment in research. We too are far from what has been budgeted for this area, both for industrial research and for basic research. It is still an evidence of poverty that at least the European average cannot be reached. I also believe that this is one of the most important options for the future, particularly as regards the promotion of the economy, which falls within the domain of the Minister for Economic Affairs. A short while ago, on the issue of energy policy, which is very important to me. The Minister of Economic Affairs has stopped last week by an APA interview in which he has announced that, after the second time in the Coalition Convention, a comprehensive change in the legalistic formulations of energy policy will come to an energy organisation law and a change to the 2nd. Nationalization law. I very much welcome the fact that there is a restructuring of the E-Economics sector here. I also very much welcome it if it would be a good energy organisation law. But all that I have heard from you here so far, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, shows me rather that our fears occur, namely that there will be a huge kneeling from the side of the EIA Minister for Economic Affairs in the black state companies in nine federal states. Not all are ÖVP-dominated, but almost and predominantly. [[Abg. Wabl: That's the problem!]] And what is happening here and what you announce here is the end of a national energy policy, which has hardly been done now, but which would have been possible at least in approaches. I always like it when you say: We need to compete, and we need to restructure now. What would be necessary in competition is that the better idea should really win, but on the other hand, there should be a fair comparison. – Yes, what is available here does not at all lead to that – quite the contrary. Let's go through it in a row! I think that before we even talk about what the new ownership structure must look like, especially when it comes to interconnection, but also with the individual national energy suppliers, the objectives of a reorganisation, the objectives of restructuring the e-commerce must be the priority. When it comes to making optimum use of the existing power plants and also of the past investments, you, as the Federal Minister, must try to ensure that there is an optimal use of the Austrian power plant park. And from the point of view of the objective, it is completely indifferent whether the power plant now belongs to the covenant, to the union, or to a state company. It is so absurd and has nothing to do with competition and the free market economy at all, for example, if there is a power plant in Lower Austria, namely Dürn Rohr, where a block belongs to the compound – he almost never works – and a block belongs to the EVN – which is of course exploited – and a few kilometers next to it another caloric power plant, Shit, exists. Instead of using the second block at Dürn Rohr – which does not work, especially in winter, to produce more electricity, because that is what the competitor has to put together – the second block is now being expanded. A 450-megawatt block will be built around a horrendous amount of money. This is one of the biggest misinvestments, but there are obviously billions of them. And it still doesn't matter – that's the status quo – that even close to the existing power plant park in this country is used optimally. They've been wasting billions for years, and that's how it goes. And your proposals for restructuring will continue. And this is so annoying because, especially in these debates, you are always talking about the need for an optimal use of existing resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] First demand – a very important point –: Optimal use of the Austrian power plant park must be an objective in the restructuring of the e-business. Second point: Increase the economic efficiency of companies through competition. Again, I cannot see how your proposals are going to happen. The third very, very important point for me – I have the hope that there will be an opposition from the Social Democrats – is to avoid a market split. This will be followed by proposals made mainly by the EIA and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This market split will look as follows: The Minister for Economic Affairs proposes that, on the one hand, the import monopoly should be abolished from the point of view of the grouping. You only have to imagine what will happen then; it is obvious. We have been in Tyrol on the basis of old contracts, some of which were already in force before the decision of 2. Nationalization law, the situation that TIWAGs import nuclear power from both Tyrol and partly Vorarlberg from southern Germany. So there is no import monopoly of the compound here, and because of the fact that this electricity is quite cheap, it is very, very much reduced and imported. The abolition of the import monopoly, which is still valid for the east of Austria, would mean that Austria is naturally flooded with nuclear power. There is a huge surplus in Europe – you only need to look through the figures yourself, section head Zluwa, who is present here, will certainly be able to give it to you. And nuclear power is incredibly cheap; it is even cheaper than our hydropower current, to some extent. Thus, especially because of the regional proximity, the OKA, the Upper Austrian state EVU, which will then probably pass into the majority ownership of the Bayern plants, will mainly import nuclear power, and households will be supplied mainly with nuclear power. We can really forget all demands and all initiatives and ideas about renewable energy sources for many, many years. It would be impossible to make a national energy policy here, and it contradicts any demand and any wish which has been made so far that Austria is committed to the existence of a nuclear-free central Europe. The removal of the import monopoly from the compound, as you propose, would simply mean that Austria would have to record a lot of cheap nuclear imports in the next few years. In order to create prices and split markets, it will be because you have promised in return that you will be allowed to provide large-scale customers. Regardless of the fact that this was already possible in part, it is not a one-way road. The EU Internal Market Directive is coming, and it will come with certainty, no matter which of the two concepts currently in the competition will prevail. But one thing will certainly happen, namely that in the future, large customers will be able to choose from where they are going to get the electricity they need. In other words, the compound will only be able to offer, if at all, if it has cheap electricity at its disposal. Rather, it will be necessary for large customers to rely either directly on the low-cost producers of the nuclear current or on foreign EVUs supplied with cheap electricity in the surplus. This will mean that, although large customers can be ideal with the individual providers, it is now the joint venture or a foreign ETU, that the small customers, the sum of households, will not at all benefit from the so-called new competition. In this case, competition will only apply to large-scale customers. In this area there will actually be cheaper electricity, as there will even be a massive discount; they will benefit enormously. Whoever will not benefit at all and who, in part, will probably have to pay a little more, because this will have to be the case for an Austrian ETU or for the association, is the sum of the small customers, the sum of the small consumers, which is obviously completely forgotten. And this is the market division we are talking about here and which it is necessary to avoid. I very much hope that there will be a great opposition from the Socialists to the plans which come from the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24263	The remaining speaking time for the Green Group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24279	I'll come to the conclusion, too. Least-cost-planning has just been mentioned. This too makes sense only if it is not made by the state providers, by the electricity plants. Of course, this must be done by independent scientists, by a committee of experts, as always, but certainly not by the energy suppliers themselves. That's not how it goes, because that would also mean maintaining the status quo. Overall, energy policy is expected to be a major restructuring in the coming years. We are here in favour of fair competition, but above all we are in favour of maintaining a national, an Austrian energy policy, which remains true to the principle of a sustainable energy policy and, above all, tries to comply with the principle of a nuclear-free Central Europe in some way. Your proposals, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, are currently heading in the completely different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24317	The next speaker is the Federal Minister. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24338	Mr President. High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to say, in contrast to many speakers, that the opposition is clear: Austria has managed much better in international comparisons over the last ten years than most other industrialized countries. This should be seen again and again in difficult situations. In this sense, I would like to encourage the Austrians to say clearly to them that I am convinced that we have the entrepreneurship capacity, not only for entrepreneurs but also for managers, even in the future, to rise better than other countries. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, there is no question that the international framework has changed, that we have completely new facts. We have no globalisation of the world economy, which we have always wanted, but we have a division, a regionalization of the world economy with a tough competition. And there is no question at all that the scope of national economic policy here is limited, that we must accept it, but that we should act in the best possible way in the context of these possibilities. There is also a clear view here – and this seems to have been overlooked by Parliamentary Prince: When we entered the EU, it was very crucial that we could keep our competitive position. If we had not done so, we would have much higher unemployment rates today, fewer exports, less investment. That's why this path was right. Although, of course, we now have a greater pressure to adapt in the protected area, even though we now have to change a lot, the alternative, namely, a no to Europe, is a way to the dead end. This should never be forgotten in all discussions and in all the detail problems. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as advocacy of the Abg. May. Peter.]] I very much disagree with those who here believe that the savings package has permanently weakened confidence in the Austrian economic location, in particular by introducing certain constitutional provisions, which have certainly only been applied where they are necessary to ensure that measures are taken more quickly and thus the reduction of debt. I'll tell you: Because of my international contacts, I know that the Austrian way of saving 100 billion schillings, meeting the Maastricht criteria, has significantly increased our international reputation. This will also be reflected in the international assessment by the Economic and Monetary Fund. This increases credit quality and, of course, competitiveness, because only in this way can interest be further reduced, because we can only keep our triple A. I therefore believe that we must see that the main lines of tax policy have been kept. Despite these structural adjustments, I say this quite clearly and self-confidently, the Austrian economic location is still attractive for tax purposes. And it should not be forgotten that in other countries, for example in the Federal Republic of Germany, it has not succeeded in completely removing property tax on businesses, removing a commercial tax entirely, reducing income tax rates. This has, of course, made the capital market attractive. What makes the capital market attractive if not such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I warn all the experts who have already analysed that further savings packages are necessary. I'm convinced: If the international economy persists when the forecasts that it is going to get better after 1997, 1998 – and this does not depend only on Austria – then we have no problem achieving our budget targets and then we will prove our competitiveness. [[Call to the liberals: "If"!]] And it is not necessary for us to carry out further tax increases, it is not at all necessary to link further savings packages. – "If!" Call. If the international economy... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Well, you may not know the economic contexts, Mr. Prinzhorn. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Johannes! Why don't you take over the bakery?]] Because I'm running the economy, it's clear. If the economic situation breaks down internationally, other countries, ladies and gentlemen, have much greater problems than Austria, to meet the Maastricht criteria. And Austria is still among the best in a general level reduction. That is, we need not be afraid of the future, even of the budgetary future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You make it a little easy when you say: Due to the scope of the Structural Adjustment Act, it was not possible for me to read all of this, and therefore I can no longer cooperate. Perhaps today, too, a liberal MP with all the budget documents will come out again. But one can pick out the essentials, and the essential, honourable Member Haselsteiner, is still that reform measures have been implemented very well. These are not just measures that have been somehow thrown together here. They are an expression of a reform policy – but ad hoc measures were also needed. For example, the successive addition of the actual retirement age is crucial and will bring savings not only in 1997, but also in 1999. And the reduction of plan posts, of course, presupposes a new organization in public administration and now also needs to be implemented. That too is a reform approach. The introduction of special support was necessary once, but in the end it has led to the fact that, in line with the Works Council, farms have been disposed of much faster by older workers. That was a misdevelopment, and that's why it was corrected. We have strengthened active labour market promotion and are convinced that we can reduce passive labour market promotion, because unemployment figures will not increase because of a wrong policy. And that, I think, is an important prerequisite. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The crucial point was that we have insisted that at least one stop is being carried out in the case of additional labour costs, and that has set in motion reforms. I say quite honestly, that is not yet finished, but the KRAZAF reforms in the health sector, where the costs are covered, are essential to change the structures that are being worked on here. The exclusion of the post, which is still to be achieved efficiently, but which is now in principle defined here, also in the course of this package, is crucial for the competitive situation of Austria, in order to ensure that it succeeds in the telecommunications sector, because this is a key sector, because we know that telecommunications in particular affects the competitiveness of each company. That is, I am opposed to trying to give the impression here that there would simply be any – how is that always so well said? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Changes are always a burden for individuals, but overall, the expression of a reform policy. And you, ladies and gentlemen, have left us every answer where your alternative is, and that is the problem. That's why you're in opposition and not in government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosestingl: Listen!]] I say to you that we have now created the basis for this financial policy in order to be able to put in place offensive measures again. And I agree with everyone who says in his analysis here in the House that with all these measures – that is not a question – the overall tax burden has reached a maximum rate. It must fall again, it must fall again in the medium term, and there is no question at all that, as in the past, an adjustment of tariffs must take place after a certain period of time. It is therefore necessary to tighten the budget and not to water down the measures. That is exactly what the Austrian Federal Government has tried and will continue to try. There are still some points which have been raised here. Mr Principal was aware of the importance of the long protected sectors for the international competitiveness of Austria. I say quite honestly: I think it is urgently necessary – and I cannot follow Mrs Langthaler's statement at all at all – that the competitive situation in the energy sector will be improved more strongly, that prices – and I have already done so – will be fixed by a price cap and may only be increased to a certain extent, with the aim of increasing costs and efficiency in this sector. That's what it's all about. This is also crucial for the optimal supply of energy, with a national concern to seek Austrian solutions. For me, however, it does not mean to believe that I now have to operate the economic direction from above. What we need is clear conditions of competition. Here it is neither in the sense of competition nor in accordance with EU law to maintain an import monopoly. But I am convinced that the privatisation that I am able to do, which I cannot declare, must result in cooperation being carried out efficiently under the new framework conditions. The second point – here I am happy to have a conversation with your experts – is: We will, of course, increase energy supervision, there is no kneeling before the federal states, on the contrary, we must take the power to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because the one responsible for energy supervision must also have an opportunity to decide whether business and economic efficiency can be reconciled in this context. We want to ensure that energy supply areas are re-opened after a certain transitional period. That's not a pleasant policy! However, this is a reasonable policy which, as a whole, wants to link and link ecological economies with efficient economies. What certainly isn't going on is to say on the drawing board: Although there are a lot of companies that have ownership structures, they are stock companies, but we know from above – Mrs. Langthaler or anyone else – now what to do, we do all production facilities and supply facilities together, and we do all this new to create a central group. This is contrary to Austrian practice. If you look at TIWAG, you will notice that they have managed to take a very good development in international competition because it was forced by its regime early on to enter this competition. Others have not done this and have great problems. I want to force them to go the same way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the post office, it is crucial that we stimulate competition and prepare ourselves for the fall of monopolies. We know internationally, where liberalized, that supply of technology is also higher than where there is a monopoly. So it is also important to carry out the reorientations quickly, and as Minister of Economic Affairs I am unfortunately not having the skills to implement it. I asked. I have said that the Ministry of Transport should be brought to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because I believe that the proper implementation of these reforms is more important than some kind of support measure, where I really think it is necessary to consider setting new priorities. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Why didn't you do that?]] Because I don't have an absolute majority – unfortunately! That's the problem. But maybe it's still coming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In support policy, we will focus on our promotions in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and we will be very likely to force the promotion of capital, with no miracles in Austria. The capital market is, not least, also in Austria in that position in which it is because the participants in this market did not want to live with this market for a very long time. If I do not want to take in a partner, the formation of equity cannot work from the outside. It is not just the tax system, it has been mentality for a very long time, and I think it is important to change this mentality and make it clear that we have to think about it. I'll give you that. It is necessary to offer capital financing with other institutions in addition to the banks that are always forcing foreign financing in good times. The SME financing companies we have set up are an approach. We need to ask ourselves why he doesn't work. Is it just the non-existent return, we need a start-up promotion, or what measures can we put in addition here? Corporate culture, business start-up offensive. Hiezu is quite clear to say: I believe that this is also a question - from the point of view of you, Mr Peter - that has certainly been recognized correctly - of social policy, but you cannot change the mentality overnight. We must be quite honest: If, as in recent times, entrepreneurs are increasingly exposed to the prangler when, so to speak, a temporary failure leads to discrimination and discreditation, then everyone will strive for security and no one will try to pull the cart, as you say. I therefore think it is urgently necessary that we enter into a constructive dialogue on education policy in Austria, whether we are not wrong in training. Because the only chance to get entrepreneurs is to force the skilled workers in the broadest sense of the word, whose image increases and does not result in the opposite. I am very glad that a rethinking can now be seen in our coalition partner. [[Abg. Koppler: For two years now, an initiative proposal has been in the house!]] With the teaching workshops alone, this is not to be promoted, Mr Koppler. I have repeatedly asked that you should introduce socially qualified tuition fees, because people simply consider whether it really makes sense to go this way, and you should not force it with the zero rate. Mr Novotny can now imagine this, the Greens can imagine it, the Liberals can imagine it. Only: Unfortunately, when we negotiated it, nobody could imagine it. We would have saved ourselves a lot of trouble if we had done that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the accusation that we had reduced the level of self-financing of companies at a difficult time, I must say quite honestly: The losses are not lost. These may subsequently be taken into account, so to speak, and the Ministry of Finance is thinking of creating the eternal loss premium, so that this is really a temporary measure. I would like this measure to be much better than one which increases the tax rates, collects a solid tax and then charges the profit-making companies, because I am convinced that the entrepreneurial development, the entrepreneurial dynamics, is still borne by the profit-making and not by the loss-making companies. That is why we have made every effort to set the course in such a way as to satisfy this situation. I already see a sign at the clock that we should not discuss too long and too intensively. But one more word on tourism, which I think we should take seriously. There is no debate, there is no essay in which the total crisis of tourism is not painted on the wall, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is extremely dangerous and unfair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We now have the tourism results of the first five months of the winter season. If I look at these, I have to say that there is a differentiated development, we are in a change. But overall – hat has gone off in front of the Austrian tourism industry! – the Austrian tourism industry has kept outstanding and does not experience any decline, but only a marginal of 0.3 percent in the commercial accommodation companies. We cannot talk about a crisis, but we are in a change and are in a positive direction to deal with this change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have increases: in Burgenland 6.3 percent, in Carinthia 4.3 percent, in Vorarlberg – it has always been said that the development in Vorarlberg is running badly; it runs better than ever – 2.3 percent, in Vienna 2 percent, in Styria 1.7 percent. [[Abg. Drink: This has nothing to do with the territory!]] Tirol has a minus of 1.6 percent. Okay, yeah. But I also say why: because other countries have devalued and because it is also not possible for an economic minister to discuss this devaluation effect overnight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tyrol certainly has a special disadvantage because South Tyrol is very close. There have been relocations here. But you have responded, and we will continue to respond, but I do not think it is the tourist master plan. I rely on diversity, I also rely on regional initiatives. I think it is important to try to offer and support professionally what is available in the region. If we succeed, then – I am convinced – we will also experience positive and even very positive developments in tourism. I am not as pessimistic as many others who have spoken here on this subject. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are facing an economic policy which is a cross-cutting one that goes into education policy, which must, quite rightly speaking, set new emphasis in the field of deregulation. Only, that is to say, here in the House, to take account not only of the economic debate, but also of the social debate, into account in the environmental debate. Our problem is that in these areas we often create bureaucracy and not efficient performance. If I think of the entire packaging system, I have to say that it leads to increasing distortions of competition and we have to consider whether this path is still going on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] That doesn't matter, it doesn't prevent us from improving it. One cannot always stand, the world is turning on, Mrs Langthaler, and we are ready to respond to developments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is crucial – also in the field of indirect taxes – that we effectively reform on the expenditure side, save, otherwise it will not be possible to abolish or change taxes – in the field of VAT – which is certainly useful, but also in the area of beverage tax – so that we prevent competitive disadvantages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24541	Mr Puttinger is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24563	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to join with Mr Ditz, but I would like to point out a fact: Just 85 years ago, German Economics and Economics Minister Karl Schiller was born, and from him the statement: Economic policy is 50 percent psychology. It is not just the facts and facts that make up economic policy. But this also applies particularly to tourism, for everyone who knows here can imagine or has already experienced in the past how statements – whether at international congresses, whether at fairs or in newspapers – have an effect if they are in about this way: Austria is too expensive. The weather is too bad. The holdings must be indebted. The toll kills tourism. We will have two-digit minus numbers during the nights in winter. – These are the things that, in my opinion, hurt much more than anything else. Mr Peter! I would like to tell you the following – the Minister has already mentioned it –: With 0.4 percent – I am right to say that the profits are not better – we have a result in winter tourism, which is the same as last year, without taking into account Easter. In this way one cannot work that one always predicts double - digit declines and so on. We have to get used to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We should try to think positively, to create positive things. I would like to focus on two points. The first is the funding area: In contrast to the Greens who consider the funding to be, in most cases, those essential measures which are absolutely necessary in order to be able to operate in the economy at all, I believe that we would not need the funding if we had appropriate framework conditions if we were to do what we want in the economy. Despite the necessary budget adjustment measures, certain support actions, such as top tourism promotion, safeguard measures, industrial structural improvement actions, small-scale business credit schemes, will continue to exist. Various award promotions, such as the Comfort Rooms, Sanitary Rooms, Grants for Tourist Companies on Austrian Lakes, will be abolished. However, structural adjustment must not only mean the abolition of individual funding, it must also be the reform of the administration, the directives, but also a reduction in bureaucracy. This reform of funding should take place at three levels: The first level, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is designed to maintain economic and promotion legislative competence, which should remain the competence of directives, budgets and controls. At the second level, there is the funding agency which has strategy preparation, clearing and organisational competence. At the third level, a funding agency is to be set up. On the other hand, as a tourist speaker of the ÖVP, I would like to address the new Austrian advertising, whose new and committed management has already brought fresh wind to the organisation. 50 million schillings more in budget resources are available, which can also be used for advertising and marketing. [[Abg. May. Peter: Will this also be useful?]] Yes, of course, Mr Mag. Peter. You know where you wanted to use it, we know where we're gonna use it now. However, the objective of the ÖW has also been to use 60 percent of its current budget – not only 43 percent as before – for advertising and marketing, not only in the future. This step in making available resources for market processing on its own initiative is correct and forward-looking. The closer cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and with the cultural institutions has already been established. The form of organisation of an association – and I would like to contradict you already – is certainly not contradictory to efficient advertising. I believe that the change at the head of the public sector has been necessary. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in tourism, do not only want to live, they also want to bring a success home. We have to encourage the entrepreneurs that it is worth making the offer more ideaable, that it is worth making special offers, that it is worth developing experience tourism, that it is worth joining forces and that individual fighters should actually belong to the past. Because the game is no longer Salzburg against Tyrol, but it is Austria against the Maldives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, in order to strengthen the self-confidence and innovation of entrepreneurs, there is a need for positive signals; positive signals from this House, which do not necessarily have to be a financial burden on the government budget. We need the simplification of working time rights, the more flexible working hours. We need the reliefs in the Youth Employment Act, we need the facilitation of apprenticeship training, we need participation societies to enforce the promotion of equity. We need the decriminalisation of labour and working time rights, the simplification of administrative procedures, the calculation of wages, social security law. We need further investment incentives outside the 3 percent increase in the investment contribution. We need a wage stop, which is already planned for the years 1996 and 1997. However, we also need – and here I call on the Minister of Finance to finally take appropriate measures – the promised package regulation in order to provide assistance to small and small businesses in the current situation. However, we also need the harmonisation of the tax system, in particular the approximation to the EU, whether in the field of beverage tax or in the field of VAT. However, this approximation cannot take place against the municipalities, because the financing of the municipalities must be ensured in the interests of tourism. It is very easy for someone, ladies and gentlemen, of the FPÖ, who is neither in the federal government nor in a leading position in the municipalities to simply demand the abolition of the drinking tax, without taking into account what the financing of the municipalities last looks like. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr Puttinger! We also have mayors!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This policy is a non-responsible policy. But we are committed to a policy with responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, the general interest of the State is also a matter of group interests. We are also in favour of this in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us show responsibility, on the one hand, in the form of the decision-making of this savings budget and, on the other hand, in the framework of small and medium-sized enterprises in general and in tourism, tourism, in particular. Because colleague Peter did this, I also quote Churchill. He once said: You don't solve any problems by putting them on ice. Let us all address this problem together, Mr Haigermoser. You too are required, because we are not about to make something better by 1000 percent, but we intend to make 1000 things better by 1 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Mr Haigermoser! You're invited to make at least one of the 1,000 things better.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24643	Mr Mag. Peter spoke about an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have sufficient knowledge of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24667	High house! In his speech, Dr. Puttinger claimed that I had predicted a double-digit minus rate for this winter. This claim is incorrect! My forecast was 0 to minus 5 percent. I hope that this forecast will be kept. April is not over yet. Easter was a week earlier this year, so at the end of April, we'll see how it went out. I hope it will be positive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24690	Mr Haigermoser spoke next. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24712	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger, we will have the opportunity to cross the bells in the Chamber on Monday. But only one foreclosure: You complain of the action against the drinking tax and have broken a signature action from the fence yourself in your chamber. Now I'm wondering, Who is stronger – i or i? You should address this question to yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The Haigermoser doesn't understand!]] That's really cocky nonsense, my colleague Puttinger, whom you've softened here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I've already explained this to you five times!]] Of course, we can hear the message proclaimed here by the Federal Minister and by other incense boilers who have turned over the problems here. This was masterful on the way, according to the pattern of the bird ostrich. This is a storm of vision compared to what you have commanded, Minister of State. You just warned. They warned the entrepreneurs who warned black painters, warned the experts, warned the rest of the world, warned the opposition. They've all been warned by you, they're supposed to put their heads in the sand. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you so bad that you don't have a tie anymore?]] Don't play the trouble, Andreas Khol! To Maderthaner: Where has he been in the last ten years, this Madethaner? In the dive station, ladies and gentlemen! I admit that Heindl has endeavored to make some progress in the business order. There Maderthaner stood on the brake with both legs, according to the motto of the old Emperor Franz Joseph. I have made the effort to eliminate the trade order, which with imperial patent of 20. ==References====External links== There it says: "We, Franz Joseph I, possess of God's grace emperor of Austria..." He, Madethaner, is on the move according to the motto: I, Leo the I, of last grace, announce the trade order. He's standing on the brake, the Madethaner, and now he says: We're gonna change something! But he doesn't say where you want to change something. Ladies and gentlemen! He, Maderthaner, still stands for the old, soft commercial order, according to the pattern of the 1859 commercial order, which was undoubtedly exemplary at the time. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Dr. Ditz! Beautiful colors and health prayers have never been a recipe for solving upcoming problems of a solution. It does nothing to the economy if you always sing the songs of the small and medium-sized members and say that the Austrians would have done great things. The economic operators and their employees know this. It is true that the positive forces of our country have achieved a great deal together. But this fact must not lead to an irresponsible socialist coalition moving into the Krida! If you do this in the shield, we will disturb you sensitively. Mr. Federal Minister Ditz, you said that the colleague did not understand anything, our first speaker did not understand anything, Thomas Prinzhorn did not understand any of the international contexts. I hope you don't believe that! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: That's not how he said it! "From the economy," he said.]] If you ever secure as many jobs as Thomas Prinzhorn, I would like to congratulate you first, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Almost everyone in our group has the nose in the wind of competition, whether in their profession or in their businesses. You have to look for a long time in your ranks, Mr Parnigoni, as far as this benefit is concerned. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We already know that everything is in progress, Dr. Ditz. It is therefore particularly unfortunate that, although the socialist coalition only recognizes this verbally, it does not work on it. They probably also warned Mr Ronald Barazon, the youngest, on 9 June. March, the editorial in the "Salzburger Nachrichten". This is also warned by you because it holds the following in this editorial: The spirit drive continues, he says. Even worse than the inconsistency of the Austrian stock exchanges is the behaviour of budgeters on the expenditure side. - He must have meant you. And he goes on to say: The question of limiting bureaucracy has not been asked. The new savings package is a continuation of the helpless policy that SPÖ and ÖVP have been operating for years and which has driven state finances into the current crisis – spirit travel continues. – No less than Ronald Barazone sees that. I know that this is not a dogma, what Barazone announces, but it probably lacks the context and visionary view as you meant. I mean, Barazone hit the nail on the head. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It also comes from your side the call again and again: Well, how would you do it? You don't have any recipes, they say we're ruling, and it's what the citizens say. We have made numerous proposals. Federal Minister! I would like to take a brief look at some of these proposals in order to help you get on with the jumps: To reduce shopping centres by French example, to secure jobs in the middle class and to provide training places for young people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are international recipes, and we have looked beyond the borders, Minister of State, because we know that this requires responsibility for Austria. Furthermore, the tax rate for unabsorbed profits is favourable. – A demand that you always want to see fulfilled in your Sunday speeches. Abolition of enrollment fees at the Chamber of Commerce in order to improve the founding climate. – Why, Mr Puttinger, do you not help us implement this request? This means that, out of the belly, the entrepreneurs, those who want to make themselves independent, are being signaled that the possibilities for doing so are being improved. But you are wallowing all the requests. On Monday, I will look at the way you are going to vote, Mr Puttinger. Or: the 3 per cent municipal tax for apprentice compensation, a permanent theme. On several occasions, the Federal Minister has also been asked to abolish this levy in all legislative periods. But when you act, all of you go to the dive station. You always tell the Christian child your declaration of love, but when it comes to voting, you are again in socialism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Other points: the separation of plant law from the rules of trade and its streamlining; Privatisation of audit bodies in the field of plant and commercial rights – a real contribution to cost minimisation. That doesn't cost the state bag a lot. On the contrary, it would even be saved, Minister of State! This is part of our proposals. But you need to listen and not talk when you're sitting on the government bench. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prinzhorn has already mentioned it: We have the highest phone charges. In times of telecommunications, you see with your system, with your monopoly in Austria unlimited. Here too, you could make a contribution to pave the way for the middle-sized to Europe. None of this you have included in your strategies, ladies and gentlemen! The taxes rise, and it will be "SOS!" Called. Another person who doesn't understand anything that can't look beyond the borders is Kessler; he's the president of the Industrial Union. He appealed to the Members, the IV President appealed to the Members of the National Council. He doesn't know, he doesn't know, he doesn't understand. That's what I know. Kessler said: Do not raise illegal matters in constitutional order, because retroactive entry into force of fiscal deterioration is contrary to the rule of law, and this is a negligent approach to the reputation of the Austrian site. And that is exactly what you will do on Friday, ladies and gentlemen! With your voting behaviour, you will permanently damage Austria's economic location on the next Friday. That's not a little less for you than Kessler, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Puttinger said he had a wish list. This is legitimate, and he has also launched a citizens' initiative with his friend Madethaner: Stop the flood of law. It is also advertised for signatures as in the drinking tax, and then it comes into the drawer. The citizens are then told that we have done something, but the evil socialists have not participated! Ladies and gentlemen! You've been pulled over the table once again with the nose ring. What's too much is too much. You said there was no mystery advice on new laws, no chance for paragraph riders. You're riding around like wild on the Rosinante, on this schindmürde, Mr. Dr. Ditz! On this moose you will ride paragraphs. What happens to the citizens' initiative of the Madethaner? How useful is the new bonus malus system for workers over 50 years? That's what you've introduced. To this end, your own university professor Dr. Franz Krank, head of the Social Policy Department of the Styria Chamber of Commerce – he is a failed guy – says: But what must be blamed on the legislator is the fact that it is not only trying to achieve its objective by means which are quite inadequate, but is likely to also risk a deterioration in the employment situation of older people. That's the first one. So with your bonus malus system, you will destroy jobs with the elderly. And he goes on to say: The bonus is limited only to real new attitudes and also leads to an administrative complication in the wage calculation! So you introduce more bureaucracy, but on the other hand, you will collect signatures against this bureaucracy that you will introduce again the next day! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not going to be any more double-technique and janu-creasing at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then Madethaner sends his Federal Secretary-General to the front – I am allowed to express myself in military terms as a paramedics officer. VP-Economics Federation: Government measures bring more bureaucracy! Coalition fails in structural reform! Clear distribution of tasks and debureaucratisation are required! However, the coalition fails in structural reform. Mr Mitterlehner may let a little muscle play, may be a political body image, and then he goes back in like the Bohemian canvas, ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to dealing with this House, it must be said that the last ten years you have more than failed from the socialist coalition with ÖVP remnant, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I could now quote you page by page. The proposals made by Madethaners are very good proposals, not a question, but they are a wish for the Christian Child. But you're ruling, you're ruling, and that's why you've got these things to do. We are here to help you. And if you urge unanimity in your implementation of the burden on the economy, I will only tell you one thing: You don't have us on your side, because unanimity is only at the cemetery. We do not want an economic cemetery in this country, but rather innovative businesses, Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you had the courage to discuss Mr Puttinger, Mr Maderthaner, in the Entrepreneur's Parliament, or we call it a package of savings, then you would have had to meet the call of the five Vice-Presidents to convene this Chamber of Entrepreneurship for a special meeting and to have the entrepreneurs discuss and vote. But you were too cowardly, Mr Maderthaner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have demolished the Entrepreneurship Parliament to a voting machine, and on 7 July you will be able to see it. July you will announce that everything is palette, and say: We tried to change something. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't do that! They have refused the good use of democracy policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ing. Maderthaner! If you don't believe us, at least you should believe your officials, your members. If calls for help come out of this corner, please don't close your ears. In a guest comment in the Styrian economic newspaper, i.e. in your official institution, Mr. Ing. Winfried Halasz, Gremial Chairman of Styria's textile trade, said the following: I quote this in the awareness that many people in your ranks are also concerned about the economic location, but not because they are sick, but because they do not want to see beautiful figures –: Did the economy want all of this? Have you ever heard the politicians' demands that small and medium-sized enterprises are the saviors of the economy? They have certainly also realized that all of this is outrageous. On Sundays, your ing says. Winfried Halasz, an economic partner. And he concludes his letter to the reader, his comment with the following sentences: No one of us has the courage to act together so loud that it is heard not only in the Town Hall, but also in your Chamber of Commerce, even at the door of the country house or the Minister of Economic Affairs. There may still be a handful of entrepreneurs facing the supremacy of party secretaries, officials, chamber staff and trade unions. Who already understands the concerns of the economy? The small and medium-sized group must not be surprised if it is mouth-dead and hardly heard. He owes it to himself. Have you asked yourself, Mr Maderthaner, whether you have not attributed this oral death to yourself? Are you still the voice pipe of the small and medium-sized economy? Have you noticed their concerns, except with verbal explanations, colorful pictures and signatures, which Puttinger himself then sinks into the bottom drawer, ladies and gentlemen? Ask yourself these questions! Sometimes conscience research is a way to a better future. Maybe it's successful. I don't put any evil intentions in your mind. But I assume you are a prisoner of this socialist coalition, ladies and gentlemen. We don't want to be sick. But we don't want to pray in good health either. We want reforms. We want new jobs in the economy, we want young people to make themselves independent, as entrepreneurs want, because only the economy can secure jobs, apprentices can train. We want this small and medium-sized economy to survive, because the multis form few or almost no apprentice. The apprentices are trained in the private small and medium-sized economy. If we do not succeed in improving something here together, it will look very gloomy in the future in the field of competition, ladies and gentlemen. Their path is 80 percent of the wrong one. I'm not saying everything's bad. The economic professor at the University of Graz Günther Tichy answers the question in an interview: Is the Austrian government pursuing a strategy? the following: Unfortunately, I do not see any strategy in Austria. I'm quite pessimistic right now. - So Tichy. – Also one who does not know himself, also one who, according to Ditz, has no idea. There are other people, apart from you, Minister of State, who have an idea. Ladies and gentlemen! We ask you to consider whether your Sunday speeches can be implemented at least in sub-areas. We liberals have put alternatives on the table. As you have already said, you have us on your side, when it comes to the welfare of the Republic, but we will be very bitterly resisting if you sacrifice the small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of socialism as before. In any case, we are their lawyers and will also be waiting in the future with constructive proposals to ensure that Austria's economic location is not only kept but also improved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24885	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24906	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Langthaler referred to economic affairs in the debate on the budget chapter, and Mr Heindl would like to introduce the American model here in some way into Austrian politics. The Greens are no longer taking part in the debate, but I would nevertheless like to make it clear here that it is certainly not the intention of Mr Heindl to introduce American conditions in Austria. We are committed to certain deregulations, we are confessing that in a reasonable short period of time we can deal with procedures, that we concentrate procedures and that, instead of three instances, we have only two instances in the field of plant law procedures. I say very clearly that, on the one hand, the high social standard must be ensured, but on the other, the high environmental standard. Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on tourism policy, because they have been addressed by some speakers. The fact is that over the last decades we have had steadily rising numbers of nights, growth in sales, and now we have to note that the phase of growth is interrupted and we are experiencing structural change. I do not think the answer to this challenge can be to break out in a crisis cry. Parliamentary Haigermoser – I did not say that, but this leaves it to the conclusion – said that the Austrian economy, the Austrian politics slipped into the Krida. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I have no idea either!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] This cry of crisis is of no use to anyone. It has also been said that economic policy has 50 percent to do with psychology. I can only assume, therefore, that what you are doing here with your policy aims to use the psychological tangents, to cause deep uncertainty in the economy, and possibly to produce a negative effect, in order to be able to say that everything is bad in the economy. You yourself are one of the fathers, one of the producers of this crisis mood. On the other hand, we reserve ourselves, and in this coalition we will do everything we can to strengthen the economy, the entrepreneurs and, above all, the workers, and to assist them. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary that we also support structural change in the tourism and leisure sectors. Mr Peter proposed a brutal measure by saying: This can be done relatively quickly and easily. We take 300 000 beds out of the market, and that is why we have dealt with this structural problem. – I believe that we must deal with this area very carefully. Three considerations on tourism policy: I believe that tourism policy is becoming a more and more leisure policy. This means – that is also the first Austrian tourism analysis – that tourism policy must be an essential part of a comprehensive leisure policy. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What has it been so far?]] This requirement requires a targeted and coordinated networking of the leisure infrastructure, and I believe that we must make the tourist offer of a region available to both the holidaymakers, the guests and the population accordingly. Secondly, we need to update the quality concept in the tourism and leisure industry. Quality primarily means meeting expectations – also in terms of price, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, the equation of quality and maximum price offers is the wrong strategy, the price-performance ratio must be quite simple. It is also important to constantly re-open the expectations of the guests, re-adjust the offer to know the market, and to strengthen market research. Federal Minister! I think it would be necessary to support appropriate measures in this area, because guest surveys alone are of no use to us. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where are you going on vacation?]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the newly defined quality concept is not only applicable to the offer, but also applies to the staff. In this context, I would like to say that tourism is a high-touch service, i.e. it is a matter of satisfying the guests, and I can only do so through well-functioning communication, through great attention and through highly motivated staff equipped with appropriate expertise. This extended quality concept for supply and staff also means that we need new working time models. And I don't want to get past that, but I'm saying that at least this is the attempt of the square of the circle. There must be new regulations on working time in this area from which workers, as well as businesses, guests, tourists and users of these facilities can benefit. High house! A third comment: The tourism sector must first and foremost start from the regions. There are already some good approaches here. I also think it makes sense for regional tourist management to develop the offer that whole regions as a unit offer themselves to guests. Superior institutions such as foreign transport offices or also the Austrian advertising have the task of providing their know-how, and they have the task of carrying out an accompanying and advisory function. I think you're on the right track with the new management in the Austrian advertising. High house! I have a lot to say, but we have agreed that many speakers of my group will comment on this chapter. I would just like to end by reminding Mr Haigermoser, who has expressed here again that the coalition does not, as it were, achieve anything that the coalition does not satisfy the people in any way: Mr Haigermoser – even if you leave the hall – we have only on 17 November. ==References====External links==* Official website It was so, my dear Haigermoser, that the ÖVP won a mandate that SPÖ six won and the FPÖ lost two mandates. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e24998	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. – Deputies! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25019	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We must be aware that the air is out in this budget debate, that all the arguments have been put forward several times and that there is actually little to say. If we do it anyway, then at least in the effort to throw a flash there and there and perhaps also to contribute to the reassurance. Federal Minister! You know that I have always liked to debate with you and that we have often had an agreement in the debates. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz speaks to Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] I don't want to interrupt you. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I won't let myself be interrupted!]] It would be a command of courtesy if you were to be interrupted. Federal Minister! You know that I have always liked to debate with you. I think it is also easier – at least from my side – to present criticism from the position of appreciation, because it is then – so I hope at least – more credible. I am very disappointed that you have not been able to save yourself from this problem and have hacked out of the Committee's deliberations on our extract from the budget deliberations. Federal Minister! I am convinced that you basically agree with our criticism. They know that quality work in these committees was not only possible, but that it was basically not required either. You can read it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The statements of your own colleagues have left no doubt that it is not desirable that something be discussed there, or at least it is not desirable that any changes be made there, be they only marginally. That is why I ask you once again to understand these – and I really must say so – protests and also emergency cries by a parliamentarian or even several, namely a political group, who actually want to try to take seriously the work they are being paid for and also to contribute and accomplish something. If you did not, and if you, as I am afraid, as well as several other members of the government, really only see it as farce and only as machinery, then I would not be very optimistic about parliamentaryism in the future. Federal Minister! But I would also like to make a second point. You are right to say that we have done great things over the past ten years. Our cut-off in international comparisons is good. We are better than other OECD countries and other members of the European Union who have had this development, namely the benefits of a larger common market, many years or decades longer than we have. I agree. I also agree with you that the tax reform has been a big throw and that it has brought great benefits and relief to entrepreneurs, particularly as regards business taxation. In the meantime, they have also triggered something that unfortunately God – and I would like to say that clearly – has been sent back, namely optimism, investment, forward-looking action. – That was once, Minister of State! You know how I know that your colleague climate appeals over and over again: What we need is optimistic entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who do not regret are entrepreneurs who look to the future and recognize something positive! – It is also significant that the appeal is made in this form. I'll give you the right to: I believe that the savings package – the measures relating to the capital market, the financial centre of Austria – has not been linked to a loss of confidence. However, I believe that the measures or the unaccompanied measures in this Structural Adjustment Act have had a different effect on domestic entrepreneurs. Federal Minister! You know, foreign investors go to returns, that's not just networked worldwide. There are the same selection criteria worldwide. I'll give you that. We have created the necessary framework conditions for the international – and I am now clearly saying so – investors and we have restored the necessary confidence that the Austrian financial centre and thus the interest rate of Austrian debt will remain under control. That is certainly undisputed. Unfortunately, for the Austrian entrepreneurs, Mr. Federal Minister, I do not see this effect. I don't see optimism and I can't see it with myself, and I regret it because I'd rather be an optimistic entrepreneur. And just because I sit here in this house and have an opposition role, I would not want to deny optimism and not be able to deny it. So simple that they say that these are sick people, those who mourn, and they complain of our government policy out of the role of an opposition, although there is nothing to complain about, so simple, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is not. And why isn't it? – I think because we, who have learned to read and understand Austrian politics over the decades, also recognize what we lack. Federal Minister! I remember very well – I was already here in the house – when you announced an initiative, an immediate initiative to a tiny little thing: It was the loading opening time, the abolition or deregulation of the loading opening time. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Smallness is none!]] Federal Minister! You know the result yourself. You know you failed after a few days. I know that you regret this, but Austrians do not help us economic operators to know the reason why you fail – including you, Mrs Tichy-Schreder – but we do want the announced deregulations, which Mr Heindl has also advocated today, to take place and that they are not always promised. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreder]] [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] It seems to me to be prisoners in an unloved coalition. I must say something to you, ladies and gentlemen: If you are observed from the government coalition, also in other policy areas, for example the problem of the security debate yesterday or your relationship to each other, I must say that this does not lead to optimism in an entrepreneur who has his interests and that of his several thousand employees in that country. This government, we fear, has a lot to learn about. And you should at least hide your differences, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can't see them so clearly and clearly. And then maybe we'll get a little more optimistic again! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! That is why we are not very optimistic, because, I believe, we are simply right to criticise the fact that this structural adjustment law does not contain structural reforms to the extent necessary. It is a misinterpretation, Mr Federal Minister, if you say: There comes the opposition, in particular the liberals, and contests any structural measure in this package. We have recognised – from the very beginning, when the outcome of the negotiations was on the table – that you have tried and that in some areas you have actually made changes which were necessary to reverse or flatten the dangerous trends, in this Structural Adjustment Act. We've recognized that. But at the same time we said that you did not address the fundamental problems of our economy and our society. And I say again to you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties: You speak to the other camp each! Mr Heindl says: We're going to get rid of the trade order, it's going to be quite clear, that's what we're going to do, yeah! - And the other side says: We will deregulate working time. – And then you'll block each other. That's the fact! There are experimental balloons from the ÖVP, and they say: Now we're gonna talk, and now we're going to deregulate. – Then the Njet comes from the union and vice versa. – That, mine Ladies and gentlemen, prevent stimulant optimism in the entrepreneurship of this country! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Federal Minister! Let me focus on a subject. You say – and you are almost in favour of it – no more savings packages in the future! And then you've added a few "ifs." I already know, of course, that one must assume parameters that one can and must predict them and that one can focus a certain economic policy framework on fug and law. But I would draw your attention to a danger: This global development of European and other major economic areas has no empirical experience, not even close-up. We move after 50 years of peace-keeping with money, as they have never been in these modern economies, in the field of pure theory. We do not know how, in a communicatively networked society, the effects of policies are affected. [[Abg. May. Peter gives the speaker a sign that he should end his speech.]] Give it a rest, because you're not Andreas Khol, and I'm not acting on green cards and not on red cards. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: But we have a time limit!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm even being imitated! Mr President. Please protect my copyright!]] I believe that the consequence is, Mr President, that we should be careful with the promises, otherwise we will risk losing confidence – not only in entrepreneurship, but also in large groups of people. You, Mr Minister, know what happened to euphoria after EU accession. According to my interpretation, it was the overstretched, non-realistic expectation that we dared not correct out of political opportunity. We have not made it clear to people that the EU is not only about personal predictable benefits, but also about them. We have at least neglected this in favour of an outstanding vote. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say one more thing: You yourself mentioned the reform of the ministry. This is the classic example. I agree. The Ministry of Transport – where else should it have gone if not to you? I agree with you that I also regret your colleague Scholten, who, however, now pretends to have a joy with it, and who is "haut in", that you are only so surprised. Federal Minister! But that reveals the whole dilemma! Here we see clearly what it's all about. You, as a ten-year-old ruling party, also have the responsibility for this. Finally, I would simply like to say one more thing: There is a law, and that is characteristic of me when we talk about labour costs, additional labour costs, bureaucracy and other things that are useful or expensive or absurd and also expensive; and that is the Workers' Protection Act. I recognize that a law on the protection of workers is useful and that it is based on a European standard. Ladies and gentlemen! But what you have decided here with this federal law paper is not solemn. They require something from the companies – combined with significant costs. Federal Minister! This law is part of your execution. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no, no, no! – Minister of Social Affairs!]] - Read it! I read it myself. Do you want it? – You have to deal with the laws, Mrs. Fekter! You should read it and not say like your colleague Graff: I didn't even read it. - That's what it says. Ladies and gentlemen! Here we have a law that is urgently in need of innovation. For example, it is one of those things that symbolize how you unnecessarily hang weights around your neck and feet to entrepreneurs in this country! That's just one of the examples. And if we take it seriously with deregulation, with simplicity, with a wave of founders, with the offensive, with optimism and with initiatives, then, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, start with this law!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25157	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Drinkl. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25178	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time, the economy was the evil bull, the scapegoat, which nobody really wanted to do – perhaps comparable to the picture of the politician, as it is often drawn today. It is all the more gratifying, however, that the opinion has changed in the public and changed to the positive. Today, everyone knows: Without a healthy economy, nothing goes, only healthy and competitive businesses secure jobs. They are the basis for maintaining our social system. Only a successful operation is ultimately also a good taxpayer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Koppler doesn't know that!]] The entire economy – not only the export economy – is in a tough international competition. The expansion of the information systems will remove distances and competition is growing rapidly. This global competition forces companies to relocate their activities where they find the most attractive conditions. So if we want to maintain our position in Europe and in the world, we must do everything we can to secure our economic location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Here we can certainly point to a number of strengths that we should further develop and maintain. This is the good social climate, due to the social partners, which are hardworking and committed employees who ensure our high productivity, an intact environment and a balanced operating structure with very many small and medium-sized enterprises that are flexible and can adapt quickly to market conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! This coalition government has put the security of Austria's economic location at the heart of its considerations. It is generally recognised that business start-ups bring new jobs. If you know that after five years 72 out of 100 business start-ups are still alive, this is indeed a promising approach. But if you want to create new jobs with courage and initiative, you need good conditions and social recognition. We need to make it easier for people to move into self-employment. The Styrian example of the founding check, as presented by the new Council of Economic Affairs Paierl, can certainly serve as a positive example. Many further steps have to follow, and an adaptation of the trade order seems to be very useful, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me briefly to refer to the liberal proposal for a commercial law, as it says. I am of the opinion that this commercial law does not deserve this name. It might be better to call it an insurance law. Why? . We are moving the problems of quality and qualifications to justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group! Do you really want American conditions, with extravagant process addicts, in which ultimately damage claims, warranty claims and product liability claims are clarified? That can't be our way! – The lawyers must live, okay, allow! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't forget the lawyers!]] Only the one who knows more and more has the bigger chances! I'm allowed to quote my party officer Wolfgang Schüssel here, who has repeatedly said: Not the Great eats the Little One, but the Fast and the Vife ultimately conquers the Slow Seed. The bureaucracy is blocking our businesses. The bureaucracy must withstand the pace of the economy. She's not. And where she doesn't do it, she's going to be a brake block of the economy. The Council of the Economic and Social Committee, Mr Paierl, has recently said: We must do everything we can to ensure that the employer at the authority becomes a customer, not a bit bitter. The Authority shall view the entrepreneur as a customer. Today, however, it is often the case that a number of laws and regulations actually allow young entrepreneurs access to their new profession, to self-employment. Just remember that a small food dealer alone must take into account or respect 130 laws and regulations. I wish – perhaps contrary to Mr Haigermoser's wish – the initiative of the Economic Association and, above all, my colleague Cordula Frieser very much, very much success! I would like this action to be a start to this House itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should not overlook one thing: People today often stand outside the door and can no longer understand much of what a law or regulation regulates today. And these people – if you allow me to talk to Franz Kafka – for years admit, they are waiting for their right, and I think they are entitled to their right. Today, no one understands a twelve-year period of proceedings in the case of a plant operation. Twelve years a businessman had to wait until he could start his business! He can then go straight to the pension. Another case: 230 requirements for a small car operation, which is ultimately passed on by one expert to another expert, so that the list is extended to the infinite. And if you think you're through, the story starts from the beginning. This is why the procedural reform and procedural concentration initiated by the Minister of Economic Affairs is so important. I would also like to thank him for wanting to renegotiate intrastart surveys with the EU in the interests of our small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can take advantage of them because they are indeed perceived by many of us as hardness. We need to reduce these bureaucratic barriers if we want to succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, however, the economic location stands and falls with the quality of our employees. We are wrong when unemployed academics are still more respected than a skilled worker. Apprenticeship training therefore has the highest priority, but perhaps not only – a word to Mr Koppler; it is not there – in the teaching workshop, but also in our thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, which perform violent, exemplary in this sector where gold medals are earned in international competitions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if today's supply of apprenticeships goes down, the question is also allowed where the reasons for this are. A recent study found by me results in: 67 per cent of the firms that have indicated why they have not taken apprentices in recent years believe that the regulations in employment and youth employment law make apprenticeship training very difficult, 58 per cent say apprenticeship training has become too expensive for the company, 33 per cent say that the vocational schooling is too long. No one really understands why an apprentice in the hospitality industry is not allowed to work in the third year, when he is eighteen and a half years old. He's allowed to drive, he's allowed to drink alcohol, he's allowed to go to the federal army, he's allowed to marry and and, and, he's not allowed to work anymore. The Krügel beer after evening must bring him the boss himself. It must be our common concern to do everything possible to enable firms to return to training. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is not all, that's right, but without economy everything is nothing. Only if Austria's economic location remains competitive will Austria remain a top-class job provider, and then the people in our country will have a secure future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would perhaps like to give Mr Haigermoser 100 S to a paperback edition of a recent edition of the trade order, because the one he has just shown here has been out of force for 20 years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25314	Deputies! The Rules of Procedure shall not provide a basis for the transfer of the money or for the issue of receipt confirmation. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You can buy around the hundreds but also a tie!]] [[Call:But not in his business]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There are no more ties around 100 S!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Oh, at the burner!]] The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25386	High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This government, this new old federal government, has taken place in order to finally say goodbye to the interest of the Austrian tourism industry. Tourism no longer exists for this government. The best proof of this is the Government Declaration of the Federal Chancellor. I took a long time to find this one line, this one sentence in the Government Declaration, saying: "New initiatives in the tourism sector are to ensure increasing employment." There is no objection to this, but that is the overall concept of this government for tourism during this legislative period. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You haven't read everything!]] That's what I've been waiting for! I have read this in great detail, which is half a page of 50 pages. Half a page! There are measures and demands which I very much welcome, but which are already being taken ad absurdly with the load package I am talking about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this government has not yet recognised the importance of tourism. This government does not know that 14 out of 100 Austrians – you should know, Mr Parnigoni – live on tourism and are dependent on tourism. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Parnigoni knows nothing at all!]] If you get comparisons, there are eight people in Switzerland and only seven in Germany. So 14 out of 100 Austrians live on tourism. That is probably not what Mr Minister is interested in. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz is in conversation with Abg. Donabauer.]] It might be very good if you listened to me. You have already received a lecture from colleagues Peter, but I should also like to give you some important information. Because, Mr Minister, since you have informed us of the latest figures with a net decrease of 0.4 per cent, I must tell you the following: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Donabauer, don't distract the Minister!]] [[Abg. Mentil: Donabauer, the minister is not curious about you!]] First of all, the number base, the number material compared to the previous year, and last year we had a bad...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25465	Madam honourable Member, excuse me! Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that we are relatively generously tolerant of the practice that Members speak to the Minister at the ministerial bank. But I have the impression that this is growing too much, and I would ask you to hold back in the future. – Ladies and gentlemen, you continue to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25491	I have made the effort and have accounted for 0.4 percent of nights for this only decline, which is what this means in sales. This is a winter tourism comparison period, and I assumed 2 000 s per day, which is a holiday visitor in Austria, which is low for winter. I've also included the German savings package and I've seen a decline in sales of say and write 360 million! Calculate this – this effort you can make – which is what matters in terms of VAT, drink tax and others! That's your accounting. But I don't wonder at all because the government has already overcome the shock of this tourism crisis. It is only politicians and chamber officials who have never earned a schilling of their own money in their lives, at their own risk, through their own management. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Rossmann, you will not blame Mr Puttinger on his business!]] [[Call: You can't blame me]] I can do that very well. They have overcome the shock more easily, while the entrepreneurs in Austria now have to mess with the consequences. That's the difference. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And interesting is already: For example, how does the Federal Chancellor react? The Federal Chancellor is suddenly interested in tourism. Please, the Federal Chancellor takes over the cartridge for Ischgl, for the great project Ischgl, which is developed by entrepreneurs alone, was funded, which almost gave their businesses away in a transitional period! What does the Federal Chancellor do? - I inquired. – He provides the Federal Chancellery for the presentation! That is commendable, but if that is all, it is not enough for the rest of Austria, Mr Parnigoni. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Allow me a sentence!]] To speak in Androsch-Diction: These are pure placebos, and placebos – our physicians will confirm this to me... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Just a sentence!]] One moment, unfortunately, I don't have so much time to speak, because the colleagues have something to say too! [[Abg. Parnigoni: But the Federal Chancellor did not push himself! These were the entrepreneurs who came to him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You've seen how he didn't do that!]] That's, as I said, pure placebos. However, while placebos in medicine are known to have an effect, these placebos have no effect on the government. It's just a comfort and beautiful speech. We've heard that many times today. The best proof is the chief negotiator of the savings package, Captain Stix. Do you know what he said at a tourism event in Burgenland? Listen, that's your party colleague! He said: "With regard to the many constraints under which the savings package had to be chained, tourism has been treated particularly stepmotherly. It is a special embarrassment for me to have to bring the relevant passages to paper." He speaks of tourism as the only growth market and so on. Stix regrets this, please, at an event, but he has also become the victim of these negotiations, and tourism has remained on the track. – I want to prove that with it, nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the fact is that in cases of insanity – otherwise I cannot describe them – the way energy tax is worked, for example. Minister! With the energy tax, you will tax businesses that have presented to guests with free indoor swimming pool and sauna visits, free of charge, without any extra charge, the incentives you require, All inclusives. They're being punished by you. A 200-bed hotel only has an additional charge of approximately 100 000 S per year due to the energy tax. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This was supposed to have been up-to-date!]] But let's continue by thinking: They call for an initiative to set up young entrepreneurs. You know what's going on? – Now you can no longer claim the loss depreciation. That is, the companies that have recently invested heavily and are now making a loss have to take up a loan to pay the tax. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] That's how it'll look for the next two years! This is your promotion of young entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what happens to the often required - and all political groups - relief in the case of sale? You must die or be 60, otherwise the double must pay the tax. This too is your initiative! – I could continue, but I do not want to take away too much time from my colleagues. On one thing, I want to come back to the toll. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a dangerous threat!]] My colleague, Mr Rosenstingl, will deal with it in detail. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Let colleagues talk to Rosenstingl!]] Do you know what you're doing to tourism? The German bus companies are no longer coming to Austria. That was the topic number one on the ITP. It would have been good for you to have been at the ITP, because I was there in contrast to you and also in contrast to the Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Austrian bus operators – I tell you now about information, because you probably don't know – with 50 or 100 buses cannot plan in advance which turnus they drop off and which turnus they take with them again. In other words, if a three or four Austrian programmes are started, he must buy a toll picker for at least half his bus fleet. It's going to the Zig thousands Schilling. They're not coming anymore, you'll see! But also the presentation of Austrian advertising at the ITP – to stay short with the ITP – was shameful. I made the effort, I went around and watched the presentation of all the other countries, especially those of our first competition country Germany, Germany. There were emotions being presented, there it was bitten, there you saw, there's something going on. That's what made you curious. Do you know what the public has done? Do not apply: It was certainly a expensive stand, good design, white walls, red-white-red, servus in Austria, everything cool with a lot of chrome, modern design, null emotions, null clichés, null for cultural tourism, zero for urban tourism. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Masherl!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: A mesher is enough!]] This is your Austrian advertising, which you always defend and which has been so praised here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Chrome design – "typical" Austrian!]] But I'm still in Austria's advertising. A new managing director has been found to make expensive money with a headhunt office. Okay! I would like to say that I have not met him personally, nor have I wanted to attack him in any way, but why is it now assigned to millions of German agencies to advise the new, so great managing director? The answer remains with you. In any case, people are already leaving Austria's advertising, because suddenly so much bureaucracy is required. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have previously criticized that!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your predecessor has criticized the most!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: In contrast to you, she knows what she is talking about!]] People suddenly have to make an accurate account. They are busy writing reports instead of selling on the spot of Austria's tourism. Mr Minister, I would ask you to look closely at these measures. But the Proporz- und Freunderlwirtschaft has also taken part in the ÖW, more than ever before. And now I'll tell you something – you'll probably know, and if you've received my request, you'll see that there too –: Even though they said no more people are going to move, do you know what they've done? In New York – you probably know the story – one has released a family father with three children without notice – that is now at the labour court, that will be even greater waves – and, however, I confess, has transferred a specialist from Vienna to New York because her spouse is employed in a bank there. And do you know who this specialist is? – The daughter of Mr. Stummvoll! [[Call to the liberals: Go!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: By chance! It's just by chance! That's a coincidence!]] Yeah, that's a coincidence! [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's been a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That doesn't look the same to the stupid!]] I could continue this now, but we have more opportunity to ask you certain questions. Finally, I would like to return to one, namely the "Action Hospitality" in the Chamber of Commerce. I have to say that I am an entrepreneur and an innkeeper myself, and I was so depressed that it is now suddenly – the subject will of course be dealt with under the participation of the media – that hospitality is doubted that Austria is no longer hospitable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A father of the family must turn away from the dumb for the daughter!]] Please, this is the basis of any functioning company to be friendly and to sell as friendly as possible in the service sector. To do this, we do not need a premeditation from the Chamber – and not even an amount in millions! I'd like to have said that here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Black sheep will be everywhere. We must draw attention to this, and that would be the task of the Chamber, but we should not, in general, call into question the hospitality in Austria. And because you, Mr Minister, have spoken so much about the self-fulfilling prophecy, I have brought you the "worst case" of self-fulfilling prophecy, that is, the earth-appetizer of Mrs Ederer. [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[The speaker places a film-covered vessel with the title "Erdäpfelgulasch" in front of Federal Minister Dr. Ditz on the government bank.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] The Minister may eat the Gulasch together with Mrs Ederer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25848	Madam President, you know that we have only recently decided unanimously in the President that the plenary session should not be eaten. Mr Minister, this is also true of you today. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The activism of the liberals is also getting weaker. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The free citizen!]] However tempting it would be to address some of Mrs Rossmann's arguments now, I would just like to say one thing: It has complained here that the Government Declaration contains too little for tourism. Mrs Rossmann, I can only tell you that the initiative should already be taken by the tourism companies themselves. The government provides the framework conditions, and they are certainly not bad in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rossmann also complained about the toll for buses that the buses would no longer come, she meant. I don't understand this at all, because for years Austrian tourists, when travelling by bus to Germany, have to pay a transport tax for every kilometre they drive, per person and per kilometre. Something's coming out. We should never have gone to Germany. But I think that's all the excuses that have been made. I would just like to say to Mr Haselsteiner – he is not inside right now: His eternal pity is also somehow fad and tiring. The choice of words alone: Whenever it comes to the trade unions, he uses the word "no". We've heard that on TV, we've heard that a few times down here. I can only tell you, Mr Haselsteiner, that the employee representation has always shown itself flexible if it has made the requirements necessary, and this has already been said to you by Mr Nürnberger a few days ago. This must, of course, be done in agreement with the employees. I mean, that's a premise. I will come back to your remarks in my contribution with a sentence. We all know that the situation on the labour market is difficult. Unfortunately, employment rates are below the level of the previous year, and the number of unemployed has, unfortunately, increased God. But by constantly talking about a coming economic fleet, the willingness to invest is falling, and a further decline in employment with an increase in unemployment would be the result. An important factor for the development of unemployment is the fact that productivity is basically increased, especially in industry, but this often leads to a reduction in employment in firms. This should also be taken into account. This situation is heightened by the fact that employment in the service sector is no longer expanding, and the need for fiscal consolidation in public budgets has also exhausted the capacity of public services to take up. Therefore, it is gratifying to see that, if you look at Austrian foreign trade – unfortunately, there are not the whole figures yet, but there are positive trends – the data has developed very pleasantly last year; up to the last months, especially in December, this dynamic is flat. The Wifo estimates the increase in exports to 9.2 percent, that of imports to 7.5 percent. This corresponds to real growth rates of 8 percent and 7 percent respectively. With this, the Austrian export economy was surprisingly good. Austria gained market shares in international trade in 1995 and claimed to be better than Germany, for example. That is to say, it is essential to intensify external trade especially during these times, since the gaps in the current account can no longer only be covered by surpluses from the travel balance. In other words, strong export increases are possible especially in the overseas countries. I also believe that Austria has been focusing too long on the classical exporting countries. As important as these are today, ladies and gentlemen, but: However, the highest growth rates have countries of the Far East. I am aware that it is not quite easy for a small or medium-sized entrepreneur to build up export markets in these countries. It is therefore all the more important that these export opportunities be opened up and that any support is given by the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, by the Ministry. I would even like to say that I regret that the formation of the new government did not come to an own foreign trade ministry, because I believe that a foreign trade minister must travel at least 50 percent of his working time in order to provide new markets to start business for the domestic economy. The export share of Austria is currently around 23 percent. Belgium, also a small country, has an export share of 40 percent. If this share of exports were only increased by 3 per cent, it would mean a volume of around 100 billion schilling and, later, 70 thousand additional jobs! Finally, ladies and gentlemen: In this situation, Austria needs offensive measures to create new jobs, with well-trained and highly motivated employees being the key factor in promoting them. The entrepreneurship requirement after reducing labour costs is defensive, exports unemployment to other countries until they go after it, is worsening the standard of living – with the consequence that purchasing power is also falling. Therefore: The essential prerequisite for a successful management of the massive structural change is a social network tailored to these economic changes. People – and this should also be considered – who do not have to be afraid to lose their livelihood, will not feel the changes of their living and working world as a threat, but rather as an opportunity and therefore also actively participate in it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25918	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e25939	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can start my speech with a quote. I would like to put it literally: "What we need, which is also the primary objective, is an offensive economic policy to benefit from our opportunities in Europe. The chances are there, these show us the current growth rates. If we achieve this, we can create 200 000 jobs over the next four years, then there will be no more talk of social reduction." – State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Johannes Ditz, 22nd birthday. ==References== National Council meeting, XIX. legislative period to read. Federal Minister! You allow me a little comment on this: Self-esteem is also a virtue, in particular a ministerial virtue. Federal Minister! You know – I do not blame you for this – one and a half years later, it looks a little different, you no longer spread this glorious optimism, as you did not do in this House for so long. My colleague, Mr Hazelsteiner, has brought this to your attention. In future, you should be a little more cautious in the assessment of the future, then perhaps the budgets will also look a little different, but then perhaps the economic optimism that we all need will come back in time. I am not responsible for the fact that the demand for 200 000 new jobs in the next two and a half years can only be met very difficult or not at all. There are certainly other reasons for this. Just, it's been applied a lot to what I just quoted to you. However, I would like to address another area which I personally lacked in the debate. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed in detail various infrastructure measures during this budget debate. I mean, that what was illuminated by Parliamentary side was always going in a certain direction, on the one hand, into the railway infrastructure, a bit was also spoken about the road road road, but already less. But a third aspect, Mr Federal Minister, I hope you do not take it to heart, has completely gone through this discussion, namely the area that deals with the data networks. I still have a good memory of how your partner Federal Minister for Climate has said great things here, we must not miss the driveway to the international data highways, we must do something about it. – But it was apparently nothing but a lot of air. Mr. Federal Minister Ditz! You're going to give me a right, reality looks something different. You in your capacity as Minister of Economic Affairs should have an increased interest in the fact that, in the sense of industry in Austria, but also of small and medium-sized enterprises, the reality is different from what it is currently. I deeply regret that this ascent only took place verbally and that it was wishful thinking and not anymore. I regret this because I believe that Austria is at risk of developing the opportunities of this economic location itself. Telecommunications costs, Mr. Federal Minister, you know, will become a major factor in the coming years, a significant cost factor, much more than in the past. Now the post is being distributed – we have dealt with this in detail – but we simply don't talk about the money for infrastructure measures in the sector of high-performance networks with fast data transfers. We do a lot of research projects in this sector, where the Federal Ministry of Public Economy, but also the Federal Chancellery, deal with the possibilities, but we simply do not do anything, and we do not invest in this direction. Federal Minister! I think you know the study I'm calling on now: Austria needs about 30 billion schilling over the next three years, so that the gap between the highly developed countries of the European Union and Austria is somewhat reduced to ensure that this connection is implemented; however, we do not talk about it. So 10 billion schilling a year. While we are doing a rail infrastructure law, which is necessary in its basic direction, we are not necessarily doing so in the details. We create a replacement for the additional privatisation proceeds from the federal real estates and so on, but this We don't cover the area. You might ask me: Where are we going to get the money? I can give you a simple answer: Go over the books again, from me in three months, look again at your own budget accompanying laws, and finish with speculation and projects that won't happen. Take out, for example, the approaches to the Semmering Base Tunnel, which are 11 billion schilling alone. With 1 billion Schilling – please tell your partner – you can clean up this route, then you already have the first 10 billion for the infrastructure in the data networks sector. A further 20 billion schilling can be lurked if You, in your role as a general-competent minister of economics, also have an influence on the fact that the post does not somehow rattle to the stock exchange with much abdominal pain and with much speculation in 1999 but, Mr. Federal Minister, professionally – with the necessary preparation, just as it would be on an international scale. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this House, we are constantly talking about – that is good and it is also right – how this Parliament and this government should get under control of the rising unemployment figures. There are many answers, but the stone of the sages was not found. But there are, and there are many experts agree, an answer to a sub-area: Structural unemployment can certainly be effectively addressed in the future with the phenomenon that needs to be developed, of course, with the vision of teleworking. Here I see that while one or the other is being tried in the teleworking sector, there are pilot projects, I also see, Minister of State, that it is going in the wrong direction. I believe that first of all we must ensure the efficient networks, then we must reform the tariffs in a second step, in the way that data transfers, data transfers are generally billed at the local rate, regardless of the place from which they are fed in in Austria. Please take this as an incentive. Then you have to focus on promoting the construction of telehouses; there is still a lot to do. You know, in your own department is one or the other, tax incentive systems, investment premiums and these things. All of this has to be done until proven success has been achieved in this sector. As part of such regional funding programmes, money will also flow from your ministry, and I welcome it. But if I note, Mr Federal Minister, that the pilot experiments funded by teleworking stations, for example, are carried out with large acribics in the urban area, instead of transferring them to the structurally weak regions, to Gmünd, to Hermagor, to Scheibbs, wherever they are, I think, Federal Minister, something is going wrong. We're doing these tests there, we're experimenting where there seem to be no problems. But we should try where the problems are large and where structural unemployment is given, not in the city, but in the remote regions. Please think about it too! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, Mr Federal Minister, what I would like to say is: Finally, stop thinking so blue-eyed, one-eyeed in one direction or another, as far as the infrastructure policy sector, which is important for all industrial policy, is concerned! Stop seeing infrastructure as part of social partners' interests or party interests, as part of red and black, as part of the way: ÖBB serves the red half of the empire, road construction the black half of the empire. Half of it is no longer that God is grateful. We need this third dimension in the minimum, we also need a fourth and a fifth, Mr Federal Minister, and there is just too little happening. If you don't think about it with your experts, then this budget will certainly go empty. It is the wrong approach to bring about the much needed optimism in the economy. Furthermore, Mr Federal Minister, I think it will be time to correct one or another in the course of this legislative period, what you and your colleagues have incorporated into the budget accompanying legislation, because there is a lot of explosives in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26037	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26058	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The collapse of COMECON a few years ago was also due to the poor infrastructure of these states. The technological revolution is now taking place, especially in the communications sector. To actively co-design and participate in this is to say the foreign exchange, otherwise we will come to a standstill and be overtaken. The current situation in our countries must lead to a rapid structural improvement in our economies and will have a decisive impact on our economic policies over the next few years. The tax reform carried out by the coalition, driven by you, Federal Minister Ditz, has given us tax advantages to ensure through appropriate infrastructure measures in order to improve the quality of the Austrian economic location. This could be more useful for the development of service activities – I am thinking in particular of banking, insurance and headquarter functions – in relation to the Central and Eastern European countries. What does a good infrastructure mean? – It is regarded as a prerequisite for a dynamic, prosperous economy; it should already be there before a company settles. It is the interface of a company to the outside world, both in terms of transport, transport and communication. Measures such as the extension of waterways should continue. As an Upper Austrian Member, the expansion of the Enns port is a special concern to me. The Danube freight transport from Austria to Western Europe has increased in four years from 159 000 tonnes to 572,000 tonnes, and this alone in the first ten months of 1995. Container units were increased by 52 percent to 12,000 from 1994 to 1995. With continued peace in the East, transport to Eastern Europe will also develop well. Similarly, the continuation of the tourist use of the waterways – such as swimming "roads" for cyclists on the Danube – is to be extended. In the travel balance, transport is down by 10 percent. Another figure says that the traffic jams on Austria's roads cause 87 billion schilling of national economic damage each year. If the guest can't travel without problems, with regard to our tourism, he goes where he can. A good infrastructure is required by the guests today. To continuously improve the infrastructure is therefore the main task of the public authorities to promote tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, improving the value added in tourism requires more networking of all resources available, all transport systems and more customer orientation. As mayor of a tourism community, I have found that the maintenance and ongoing improvement of the infrastructure for tourism at local level needs more funding than the income from drinking taxes. In my opinion, therefore, a replacement of the drinking tax is negative, it would have a disastrous effect on tourism companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No tourism operation could exist without the appropriate infrastructure. Another important measure is the closure of gaps in the high-level road network. According to you, Federal Minister, 33 billion Schilling will be investing in new buildings for these projects over the next four to five years. However, local experience must also be realized in the sense of an economic future of the tourist regions and in order to reduce the burden on the population. Of course, in this context, the village of Traunkirchen, where I am mayor, is a big concern to me. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Novotny and Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] The general project will be sent to your ministry in the next few days. The Rail Infrastructure Finance Act allows railway construction to continue quickly. Over the next five years, 12 billion schillings will be available annually. In this context, the expansion of the inner circuit is a major concern to me from the above-Austrian point of view. As a 1995 study shows, the Munich–Simbach–Neumarkt– Linz line would be 40 kilometres shorter than the Munich– Salzburg– Linz link. The cost of expansion on the Austrian side would amount to 3.8 billion, the total cost, including the expansion on the German side, of 7 billion schilling and would require a relatively modest effort compared to other projects. This would create a powerful railway as part of a Danube corridor. The West Railway would relieve, and in addition, an important freight transit route would be created for the current implementation of regional transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The freight terminals Munich- Riem, Wels and Linz could easily be connected to the route. Through the promotion and construction of technology centres or parks, new attractive jobs in higher technology can be created and the transfer of Austrian know-how in the economy facilitated. A reduction in red tape and a simplification and streamlining of approval procedures in case of new operations or plant permits should be carried out. The introduction of broadband communication, which will finally take place – the post will switch, as you can hear, for the first time a broadband of two megabytes between the capitals of the state and Vienna – enables the economy to implement its projects on a flat-rate basis – that is, clearly under the previous commercial tariffs. A good, modern infrastructure is a prerequisite for an interesting, attractive economic location and makes our companies more competitive, offering more and higher-quality jobs and thus more prosperity for our citizens. The 1996 and 1997 budgets help to improve the international competitive situation of Austria. They raise economic psychology and thus the willingness to invest in our businesses. The international economic press sees the measures taken by the coalition in a similar way – I refer only to the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" – and confirms the way for a good economic future taken by Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26167	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26189	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return briefly to the introduction of tolls today, because the Minister of State in the Committee has meant that the tolls will be introduced because the State needs money. It is therefore a purely monetary acquisition. This toll will not at all help to move traffic from road to rail, and of course this toll will have no environmental aspects either. The Federal Minister meant that we need the toll to finance road maintenance. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you should at last note that the State is obliged to provide transport infrastructure from normal tax revenue. One cannot always, if one wants to finance something, introduce a new tax and get the citizen into the bag. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, the Federal Minister was not able to deal with the problem of evasion in the Committee. He has shown great ignorance. For example, he referred to a study in which, although the acceptance of the toll was treated, there is nothing at all about what is going to come about. In addition, within ten minutes, Federal Minister Ditz once found that the distance traffic would be perhaps 10 percent, the second time he meant that the distance traffic would amount to 20 to 25 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] This shows clearly that this Federal Minister has no competence in this area, Mr Kukacka, Transport Speaker. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A particular recklessness – and indeed the Minister of State "excellent" in Tyrol – is that the problem of double decoration has not been solved. I think there is a need to do something for the citizens here, so I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I give you the opportunity to do something with this request for citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A second area is the exception of the city highways. In this regard, the Federal Minister meant that this should not be resolved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to see what city cars are and to exclude them, because there will be a very large distance traffic. I should like to point out that there are many car owners in Vienna who only drive in Vienna or rarely drive out of the way. These car users will certainly not buy a vignette. In addition, there are secondary cars in many families, and you will of course buy in a family only one pickerl for the first car, but not for the second car. Therefore, in the urban areas, you no longer have these cars on the city car when they drive from one end to the other end of the city, but you have this car in the streets of the districts, and therefore there will be a traffic chaos there. In order to avoid this traffic chaos, MEPs bring Rosenstingl, Dr. A motion for a resolution on the prevention of tolls on urban highways for a preliminary ruling was tabled by Mr Preisinger and others: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have now tried to show, on the basis of a number of points, that Mr Ditz has no competence at all in introducing tolls. We liberals will not go along this path.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26313	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26337	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The energy economy, which has already been discussed several times, is changing very rapidly and very deeply. These changes are primarily triggered, I believe, by the EU internal market, the eastern opening and the substantially changed domestic requirements. The EU Commission also wants to increase its competition in the field of management energy sources. The negotiations, it seems, are very difficult and, above all, very lengthy. The interests that come about here are different. The countries in the East rely on electricity production from abundant raw materials such as uranium and coal. They want to earn hard foreign exchange with the goods electricity on the energy market. In addition, Western nuclear power plants are faced with a shrinking of their most natural Western markets. They are therefore increasingly pushing into the markets of the East. Ladies and gentlemen! The result will be an ever-increasing supply of electricity at our borders, at prices where our energy industry will only be able to keep up with the greatest effort – if at all. Domesticly, too, the situation has changed dramatically in recent months, last year: If there has been an increase in electricity demand for decades, it is beginning to stagnate more and more. Mrs State Secretary, I would ask you to inform the Minister for Economic Affairs that I would have liked to discuss for my group the 1994 Energy Report in Parliament this year, because I believe that this energy report brings exactly the facts and facts that we need to have a good, well-founded discussion of a new energy organisation for our country. I would therefore ask you to pass on my wish. In some EVUs – even this has already been addressed by colleague Langthaler today – ownership relations have changed a little. Fortunately, Austrian solutions have come up. – I do not want to discuss the price more closely in this context; it was certainly over-examination in part. . I hope that further changes in ownership can in principle continue to maintain this situation in the future. It must not be overlooked that more and more foreign interested parties are seeking participation in our ETUs; I am thinking, for example, of RWE, of the Bayern plants, of EDF, but also of others. Their motives are more than transparent: They want to buy themselves out of strategic considerations in order to gain market shares, and à la longue want to control the relatively small but not uninteresting market over these investments. It is relatively easy for them to shop here financially. They must consistently provide high provisions for the nuclear power plants they operate, so they have the necessary financial resources for such transactions. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the international structural adjustment process is reinforced by other factors, such as technological, economic changes, increased environmental awareness of demanders, increased competition in markets that have been protected so far, and – an essential factor – economic growth and energy demand could be decoupled. Energy companies are adapting to the new competitive conditions across Europe. Concentration processes on the energy market are increasing. This bundle of new and great challenges must be faced, but not by – as with us – acting against the national societies – or vice versa, perhaps also supported by foreign financial participations, but by those here speaking, they are invited to deal with each other's developments in the near future. We want an energy organisation that is being re-regulated and remains in the constitutional order; I think this is very, very important. We want to create framework conditions with which we continue to maintain Austrian influence, because national electricity supply companies are of great strategic and economic importance. Cooperation between the ETUCs shall be ensured at all levels. We want a law to ensure that the public service contract continues to be fulfilled. So that we can imagine about what that means: The energy industry in Austria spends around 2 billion schillings a year for the absolutely necessary stockpiling. This is a non-essential amount. Supply and security of supply are therefore very closely related and play an essential role in the energy industry. We want to ensure sustainable energy supply and as much self-sufficiency as possible in the future. By ensuring optimum coordination of our hydrothermal compounds, international competitiveness should be maintained. Similarly, the three-stage development of our energy industry should be maintained. This must also be maintained in a liberalised market. If, as expected, the EU Directive prefers the concept "single buyer" with "negotiated access", the combination should appear as "single buyer". In the interests of further competition, large customers and local societies should also be given the opportunity to act as demanders on the international energy market. Our high environmental standards must be maintained. We will therefore have to create a law that will successfully prevent environmental dumping and, as far as possible, will help to prevent the import of nuclear power. It would be good if we were to avoid imports of cheap electricity from dirty coal power plants. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that price transparency is ensured for the consumer in a newly organised energy economy, as well as in the case of channelled energy sources. If we want to create a competitive structure and scale for the e-commerce in the European internal market, all those responsible in the Federal Government, we here in Parliament and those involved in the energy industry are invited to work quickly and efficiently on a reorganisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26423	The next speaker is the honourable Member, Mag. Barmüller. – Mr deputies, your speaking time is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26444	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Oberhaidinger here wishes to be credible that the 1994 energy report should finally be presented, I can only agree with him. I am just afraid that the 1994 report on energy will be the same as the 1993 report. Mr Oberhaidinger! It would be better if the Federal Government had complied with what it had already called for in the 1993 energy report in the current structural adjustment law than to request new reports. This is the real problem of credibility, which has already been mentioned so often here on this pult. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! If liberals are kept to us again and again that we have been withdrawn from the Committee's deliberations after we had started working on it, Mr Fuhrmann, I can only say: [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Right!]] This is because one cannot negotiate and discuss with a federal government, with government groups that are not even willing to stick to what they promised themselves half a year or a year ago. If you do not stick to it, then you can ultimately not talk about any measures. That was why we said: We do not form a parliamentary facade for a government pamphlet that you have listed here with this structural adjustment law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out to you three examples that what has been promised by this government and what you might in fact be asked to do here in the House is simply not being respected. On the one hand, this concerns the ÖSTAT with a budget of 600 million schilling. There are 1,200 employees, officials, 70 percent of the budget goes up for staff expenditure – but there is a lack of external trade statistics, ladies and gentlemen! Now it will be important for you, as a government faction, to learn what the specific data look like so that a concrete economic policy can be made. But they don't have them in their hands. But you stand out here and act as if you knew everything and could say anything about it. Nothing's true! You don't know! They're just talking into the blue. And that is something you often hold out to this group. [[pointing towards the freedom of movement]] But basically, you'll do it all right! The gaps in industrial and commercial statistics are also an example of the fact that you do not have the documents and the basis for a consolidated economic policy at all. As regards the 1995 census, which is called the census of the economy: Nor does the one, ladies and gentlemen, exist and will probably not come either. There was a letter from all four social partners to Mr Bundeskanzler in November 1995, in which it was agreed that these statistics should be drawn up and published. There has been no such thing as this. But you stand out here today and say in the Structural Adjustment Act and in the budget, you know exactly where it goes. In truth, however, you do not even have the basis for assessing that! The thick end, ladies and gentlemen, will come in autumn, if the gross social product is only taken out incompletely, and then if VAT is not calculated correctly, because it can no longer be calculated under the conditions which now exist in the ESTAT. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, like Mr Ditz, you know that these are essential parameters for determining net contributions to the EU, for granting EU funding, and, ladies and gentlemen, finally for meeting the convergence criteria. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot judge at all because of the lack of a basis for decisions. But here you tell all the listeners and the whole Republic that you could claim it. – True is the opposite! The second example is the permanent war that exists between the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and the ÖSTAT on the one hand and a private company on the other, which is about providing an energy account. It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen, that, although there has been a unanimous motion for a resolution in this House since 1993, it has not been possible from the Federal Minister for Energy, Mr Ditz, his predecessor, Mr Schüssel, to make all the co-ordinated country energy balances, utility energy analyses and energy flow images of all the federal states immediately available to the public, as stated in this resolution. The Federal Government has not even been able to make publicly available what private companies have already offered. This has not even been done, although it has also been demanded with your votes in this House. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, a tax on electricity will be introduced, a natural gas tax will be introduced and it will be done as if the German Government were still able to calculate the income of these individual taxes. In truth, however, also here: You do not even have the numbers needed to calculate them. The differences between the statistics of the Federal Transport Distributor and the ÖSTAT on the one hand, or, on the other hand, in terms of gas consumption, the statistics of the highest mountain authority on the one hand and the ÖSTAT on the other. But Mr Ditz's Minister of State is not bothering me. [[Abg. Böhacker: He takes an average!]] He calculates funny, happy before himself. And he'll say "supply" in our direction: Why did you go out of the committees? You could have consulted with us. – What should we discuss if you do not even have the underlying figures for this? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The last example, ladies and gentlemen, is the import tariffs for renewable energy sources. To this end, it has explicitly stated in your coalition agreement that you want to comply with the environmental guidelines of the national environmental plan. And you also said in the 1993 energy report that renewable energy sources should be treated preferably with respect to renewable energy sources. – Nothing of that will stop you! The import tariffs for renewable energy sources have not yet been fixed in such a way that they really have a preference. Now the Federal Minister says again and again: I'm sorry, it's not my responsibility, the heads of state are responsible for that. It is true, however, that this is a competence which the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs is well aware of. It has been given to the heads of state, but it does not fulfil them, and the Federal Minister washes his hands in innocence. So, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to make politics in Austria in the long term, and you will also notice it in the next elections! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26512	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26539	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to contribute to the budget chapter of the economy, to the area of community, tourism, jobs, and to the connection with sport. It has already been pointed out today that a new study that Casinos Austria has made possible is the first Austrian tourism analysis. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] Due to this tourism analysis, there is an interesting conclusion of a short summary. I quote the co-editor, Professor Dr. Opashovksi from the time research institute in Hamburg. He brings it very nice and short to a point: "The displacement competition in tourism is increasing significantly. High prices, poor infrastructure or increasing pollution are no longer easily accepted by the experienced and quality-conscious holidaymakers." According to Professor Dr. Opaschowski, there are no detectable Alpine or Southern European fatigues, at least an insufficient quality of holiday. "Quality criteria can be a poor price-performance ratio in economically difficult times and in times of economic upturn as well as poor service. In this way, some destinations may be temporarily interchangeable. However, the trend towards travel abroad remains constant." – I mean, in the composition of this brochure, there is a very decisive inside that we must also react to. When I restore the community, tourism, jobs and sports context, I have to say that we know, of course, on the spot – and especially as mayor of a tourism community, like Schladming, I know this – about the more difficult framework conditions for tourism. Of course, we also know, in this study, that hard-currency countries, not only Austria, but in total, have seen declines in tourism. But we also know that the hard currency for Austria and the whole of it is correct and that it must certainly remain the same. However, it was also very important that the Minister of Economic Affairs responded with increased advertising opportunities on the market and that 50 million Schilling – already addressed today – was made available for the Austrian advertising association. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress that this is a very specific and concrete measure, which, as already mentioned, has been called for more often and by several bodies. It is crucial that they are available to do so in a situation where it is not natural that funds should also be increased. In this context, I should like to refer once again to the Minister's first speech, because I would like to express my thanks for the many hard-working hands, which have allowed it to be given by many self-proclaimed or colported experts, contrary to the forecasts of minus 5 to 10 percent, - minus 5 per cent has also admitted to Mr Peter when he spoke - now only 4.0 per cent, if March is already included. This is not the final result yet, but it looks much better than it was generally predicted. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] And that is the success of many diligent hands that operate in the companies, in the restaurants, on the cable cars and everywhere, including in the Austrian communities. I would like to thank all of you very much for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have thus up to now 44.8 million guests. The proportion of foreigners was stable at 34.6 million. The difference of 10.2 million is the number of residents. It is therefore well worth taking courage, even in more difficult times and under difficult conditions, and not messing up everything, not always being desperated and saying how bad and how terrible everything is. Because if you compare these numbers now with the forecasts of a few weeks and months ago, you can see that this is not in agreement. [[Abg. Aumayr: The forecasts have always voted in the past!]] They didn't always vote. The result is also much more important to me than all forecasts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also assume, Mrs Colleague, that if we do not always speak of the crisis, but rather a little more of the offensive, we have a little faith in our own future, then we will also be better than the forecasts. I'll tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For Austria, of course, the quality and safety are considered a distinctive feature for the holiday wish. Another important point in this study is that 30 percent of the Austrians remain – and we can be proud of that too! – best to spend their holidays in Austria. This is a high value, because this study also compares Germany, Switzerland and Austria. I therefore recommend that we look closer to this work. But what is the special relationship with the communities? . It includes much more than that we only once again, periodically and at shorter intervals, build up a field of tension, fixed to the drinking tax, whereby the economy and the political parties call for the abolition or replacement, the abolition of replacement, without replacement. The municipalities, in turn, say: You can't tear the soul out of the body! – We have a lot more similarities than it stands here. I would even like to ask: Where is the vacationer first guest? Either in a house, a hotel or a pension – or in a place. Ask him! These are the first reference points of each guest. Either I am in the village of XY or in the house Sowieso. Ladies and gentlemen! As a local speaker of the House, I would really like to stress the following: The regional political situation is presented in Austria if it does not exist in tourism. Where would the jobs in the mountains, in the valleys, in the Alps? How would the situation be, for example, with regard to migration to the constituency centres? You can see: Tourism is of great importance to regional policy and infrastructure policy. It is quite certain that our population does not have the high supply of infrastructure that it currently finds, whether it be recreation facilities, sports or cultural rooms, indoor pools or pistes or trails, if it does not exist in tourism. Because this one is financing all of this! We therefore have a high quality of infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Take the next area, local image care, the environment and culture. Each place holds a lot on its site. The entrance, so to speak, the "reception" of the place, is the town view. I therefore believe that the 25-year activity of the Federal Government, with the support of the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Austrian advertising, has taken place for the predicate of 1,500 communities to environmental, tourism and cultural communities, so that they have already set milestones that could only be achieved together. Employment: Our tourist spokesperson Puttinger has already pointed out 160,000 employees – Peter has also mentioned it – and 11,000 apprentices come along, and fortunately most of them in the Styria. So in 77,000 establishments – without the 160,000 to 170,000 people close to tourism – is already a remarkable thing! I therefore think I can say that there is a relationship: Tourism or tourism and tourism community. These two are natural partners, and if either of them does not exist or does not meet the requirements of a critical guest, tourism will not have the meaning it has. We must therefore and must take account of each other and I am very glad that, by the Financial Balance Act, the communities will once again have security for their budgets through the decisions of this House, at least by the year 2000. I am very happy about this because it takes uncertainty and gives optimism! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] I come to the conclusion and may address the last part. Austria is not only of nature and of friendly people – and this is still the highest value in tourism –... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Especially in Styria!]] All together! There I am already Austria patriot enough to admit – despite Archduke Johann – that all countries are beautiful, but the Styria is probably a particularly beautiful country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I think the experience has also shown, as have the courageous men who have the importance of sport, which comes from tourism as mayor, decision-making state governments, decision-making federal governments, the importance of top sports and major events for tourism and for the holiday country of Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Österreich-Ring!]] I'm just counting the Olympics, the World Cups, the World Championships. We are allowed to experience the Nordic in Ramsau in 1999. It now recruits St. Anton for the year 2001 or 2003 for the performance of the Alpine World Cup. As the Steirer, as Grazers, we have excellently cut off the Olympics with the Styria for 2002, namely as the fifth out of nine, in the first round of the Olympics. After all, this is a great achievement! The Carinthian friends, the Salzburgers and the Tyroleans are trying to meet this great challenge. Everyone wants this to happen with him. The most important thing is, of course, that we get it into our country at all. I am therefore in favour of all those involved in sport, the economy, politics and, in particular, tourism, so that we can also face the big competition as a winner and win this convention! I think it is a worthwhile and great task to try and succeed in these big dates, whether they are World Championships or Olympic Games. I therefore ask you for your support! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say something about this. With the implementation of the Special Olympics, we have also brought a social component into society. We are not preoccupied with the fact that it is also economically interesting. We are concerned that a door is opened on a subject of sport for disabled people in society, that is recognized and addressed by the handing over of Olympic medals and when the Olympic light is burning, quite simply the soul of the Austrian. This implies the desire that in this country, in a country of hope, this flame should continue to burn, both for mentally disabled people, as well as for the great challenges of our time, in tourism and in sports. And in this sense I look forward to development very positively!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26664	I call Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26685	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to deal with the Federal Road Finance Act again today and with the voting behaviour of my Tyrolean colleagues from the government groups. ==References====External links== October 1995. At that time, the current woman NR-delegated Horngacher belonged to the Tyrolean Landtag. This decision of the Tyrolean Landtag was adopted unanimously, in the following wording: It is requested that the Landtag should decide: The Tyrolean Landtag opposes the introduction of a vignette in the form currently proposed. Overshadowing two toll systems aggravates traffic problems in our country. A new toll system initiated by the federal government can only be accepted from the Tyrolean point of view if it is based on the principle of cost-truth and does not lead to a shift of transport to the federal and state roads and thus an additional transport burden for the Tyrolean population. This is a unanimous decision of the Tyrolean Landtag. But the representatives of the Austrian People's Party and the Socialist Party have not at least thought of complying with this unanimous decision of the country. In addition, the Tiroler Landtag took place on the 21st day of the year. It was decided on 1 March 1996 that: "The state government is invited to open discussions with the federal authorities immediately by the competent member of the government in order to establish a system of toll acceptable to Tyrol within the meaning of the Landtag resolution of 12. In October 1995 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes.' The responsible speaker in the Tyrolean state government, Landesrat Lugger, immediately tried to get an appointment with Mr Ditz. It has also been granted an appointment, only that date has been cancelled. However, Mr Lukesch is able to get out of here and make fun of the fact that Mr Lugger, the Council of State for Transport, has agreed with the wrong Minister, although the Minister responsible has recently cancelled him the appointment. But he still went to the ministry, talking to the responsible ministerial official there, but the success was zero. As you deal with decisions by the Tyrolean state government, the statement of the state of Tyrol to the Federal Road Finance Act shows. In this statement of the state of Tyrol on the time-dependent toll, said Pickerl, Vignette, the Tyrolean Landtag and the Tyrolean state government say that the following problems arise: massive evasions, especially tourism, damage to tourism due to the non-existent acceptance, loss of image for Austria, which has a particularly negative impact on a tourism country such as Tyrol. For the reasons set out above, the introduction of a time-dependent toll as provided for in the draft will take place from 1. Decisively rejected in the current form in January 1997 – unanimously by the Tyrolean state government! But here the representatives come down from the Socialist Group or from the Austrian People's Party, say something quite different than at national level and vote unanimously for the introduction of the Vignette – against a unanimous decision in the Tyrolean Landtag. Mr Klubobmann Andreas Khol, who also received the statement from the state of Tirol, wrote to Mr Landesrat Lugger: I hereby inform you that I will vote in favour of this law in order to safeguard the well-understood interests of my Tyrolean compatriots. I have therefore not joined your considerations – Mr Dr. Mock, the reflections of the Tyrolean Landtag – or the unanimous government decision, but rather I would like to present my own as a Member of Parliament to the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mock]] As far as the resolution of the Tyrolean Landtag is concerned, you are well aware, Mr Landesrat, that it is a federal matter in this matter. - Quote. So don't mix in in rural matters! – This is the process of the Austrian People’s Party in the controversial introduction of a toll-vignette. From the point of view of Tyrol there is nothing to add to this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26748	I call Mr Kiermaier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26770	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My concern concerns those entrepreneurs who, like me, took over their businesses at a time when there were probably different patterns of thought and conditions. Although many things have developed well since then, it has to be noted that at the time the individual entrepreneur was able to design much more than today; his initiatives depended primarily on the direction in which his business developed. Today, the horizons are completely different, especially through accession to the EU, the opening of the East and the tense situation of the European budgets and so on. In the pursuit of gripping headlines, the media do not do a very positive job, but spread a mood that is very often detrimental to the economy. You have to say that too. [[Abg. Dr. Mock: (Applause) He's got Courage!]] In this context, I would like to point out that, as Mr Puttinger has already mentioned, there were two-digit councils which the press has forecast in a negative sense. That can't be good, that's to the detriment of the industry. However, I would also like to refer to the statements made by my predecessor, Mayor Hermann Kröll. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's nice when a mayor knows what his host is worth. As a hostess, I guess it's done to hear a mayor speak like this once. I also believe that it is the partnership that is far from being maintained, namely the partnership between the head of the municipality and his host. One needs the other, and one has to meet the other. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It would also be very important that we give the entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurs more courage to open up their work and make them more open-minded. The defensive mood has become too strong, the negative propaganda is not a good thing. But above all, I would like to refer to a point which, as I believe, is very important. We all know that international export quotas are too low in our country. In the first place, efforts are being made at large farms. But the small and medium-sized enterprises should also be much more involved in the export process. It is very often a bit shy of the reason for this: Small businesses do not trust to take the step towards Europe, nor do they have their own structures that are necessary to do so, they do not have a foreign trade department, there are more offerable, simple craftsmen or producers at work. These must be strengthened to take the step towards Europe and to take advantage of the markets that are open to us there. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] I also do not want to hold back on the question of vocational training. It will soon be in the house of the vocational training report, and I will say quite a lot to that end. In this area, rethinking is quite, very important, new ways must be taken! According to the vocational training report, skilled workers and apprentices should be upgraded accordingly. All these things are important. Good and motivated entrepreneurs were first apprentices, so they have to feel comfortable, they have to do something in this direction. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo!]] It is also important that we make strong progress in administrative simplification – but not only so that the public sector has less work, but also that the firms have less administrative work to do. The craftsman belongs to the workshop, and the host belongs to the restaurant, and the merchant belongs to his shop and not all continuously to the desk. That's a big problem we have! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Mock and Rossmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also a non-essential problem is the transfer of holdings from the father to the son or from the father to the daughter. It is very often seen by the authority for a long time, and then the new entrepreneur gets a review, and then things are prescribed to him, which he simply cannot fulfill. It happens very often then that the young businessman says: That, please, I don't do it! If I have to do all this again at one time and before I take up so many loans, I'd better not make myself independent, then let me be the whole thing! Thus, good, traditional businesses, which also have a good location, are often lost to God. We should try to prevent that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] Finally, I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen! Again and again the abolition of the drinking tax is charged. I also believe that this is important. I am also fully aware of that, that is no question at all. It is simply necessary because of the international conditions of competition. But I would like to say – to talk again about the partnership between the community and the hostess –: I believe that as long as we do not have a well-founded funding for the communities, we must wait for solidarity with the communities with the abolition of the drinking tax, which we all do not want. This, I believe, is a serious policy, and we should take care of it. In this sense, I am convinced that we will take these two budgets on a path that will be of great benefit to this country. It's not a light time. But this country, this Austria, has already mastered so many problems that I firmly believe that we will also be able to cope with this situation, which is not easy across Europe, with our zeal and with our firm faith in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26862	Mrs Preisinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26883	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last Friday, the Polittheater and the coalition plot around the strange money acquisition campaign Maut found an uncanny end here in this House, as has so often been. The introduction of the toll is again at the expense of the population and leads to a further financial hit in the cash and wallets of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was really a grand coalition spectacle and a play. I remember: In November 1994, the Minister of Transport announced from the SPÖ that he wanted to penalize the use of roads. The Minister literally: "We will also use a modern system for abcashen in Austria." – APA message of 28. ==References== The second round follows: In the spring of 1995, the new Minister for Economic Affairs Ditz of the ÖVP stated that all of this would not come into question for him. Ditz verbatim: "Toll plans have absolutely no priority for me. With the increase of the mineral oil tax, a step has already been taken towards ecology and pollution. One must know what is reasonable." Minister! I'm definitely asking you: Don't you remember? Has You lost this knowledge now? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, Ditz literally on the road pricing plans of the socialist counterpart: "You don't hear any announcement from me in this direction." - "Kurier", 30. ==References== You, Mr Minister, have explained to all the serious things here in autumn last year, the new elections in the eye and in view, from the government bank, that you can't hear the magic word "road pricing" any more. We could all hear it with our own ears. [[Call to the liberals: mustn't hear it!]] How's it going? The elections are over, the big coalition is back. It follows a toll summit, a toll in the form of pickerl and road pricing is in the house. The theatre continues: Although the coalition is obviously in agreement again and the world is in order again, the socialist mayor Häupl is falling to the shiny and rapid good idea, the already well-known game of opposition in its own ranks and in the coalition, beginning again, and explains that he will even call the Constitutional Court and go to the Constitutional Court if the Vienna city highways are to be muttered – although in all the Federal Party bodies of the SPÖ he has agreed to this savings package or, better said, to tax package and toll and has obviously not been mentioned there at all. He didn't care! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But after that, of course, he was opposed, because such a thing can be sold well in the media. He then put the crown in a daily newspaper, on 16 June. March 1996, when he made a great statement: Find a majority in Parliament against toll. - That's to be read. Ladies and gentlemen! Since Friday last week, we have known exactly what this majority looks like. The coalition attempt has obviously been restored. Either this is a classical failure of the mayor of Vienna – or a conscious deception of the population. I'm just saying: This is totally indifferent to the population itself, because it remains the same tragic result for the population! At the end of the day, I too have the time to put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition to a number of other inconsistencies, the introduction of the Pickerlmout brings special disadvantages for the owners of vehicles with alternating marks, which, according to current condition, require their own pickerl for each vehicle, although only one vehicle can be used. According to calculations, this accounts for about 80,000 exchange mark owners a lucrative surplus of 44 million schilling a year. The honourable Member, Dr Preisinger, Rosenstingl and colleagues, therefore put the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26960	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Fekter has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e26984	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is great, of course, if you stand out here and bet against the toll, because all the financial burdens of the population are naturally taken up negatively, and if you jump on this populist train, you will of course receive consent. However, Mrs Preisinger, we did not think further than the nose is long. Then: The toll discussion was, of course, determined by the dictatorship of empty cash offices, no question, and the economic budget was, of course, used all the more back in view of the empty cash registers than any further structural measures were possible. If we know that the Austrian economy is very much dependent on construction measures, we also know how urgently we need these revenue from the tolls in order to be economically stable and stimulating. The expenditure on construction, Mrs Preisinger – and from this you can see how necessary it is to get money into it – has an enormously high multiplier effect. It is the expenditure of taxpayers who multiply and double in the economic structure. The multiplier effect at all reaches the highest value of all public expenditure, namely 2.3. In other words, every tax schilling that flows into the building is multiplying in the market, in the economic structure by 2.3. I admit, when it comes to road construction, this multiplier effect is not that high. However, I am very glad that the 33 billion projects decided at the construction summit can also be launched through the new financing law. The reluctance of the public hand in construction expenditure has led not least to the well-known crisis in the construction industry and is also aggravating it. I therefore welcome the new financing system in the form of the toll, even if it is difficult for me. I think it is right that we should go this way. I also believe that, if modern methods are technically mature, we must not shut down in the future and become a kilometres-dependent road pricing system sometime in the middle of the future, because the toll pickerl alone is not sufficient when it comes to financing the Austrian infrastructure. Unfortunately – and this hurts me very much as an entrepreneur – in Austria we have too little operator models, too little privately funded infrastructure. It is true that in Austria we cannot handle this form of financing as well as at all; there is almost no such thing. I would like to give a positive example: This is the BIG, where one has come to more construction volume via an operator model. This is a praise to mention: But it's not really a privately funded model. The fact that in Austria we do not know any operator models in the field of infrastructure, both in the field of transport infrastructure and in the areas of waste water, waste disposal, e-economics and cetera, and that we do not benefit from these models is a disadvantage for the domestic market, because of this, of course, capital is not available. But – something that has not been observed so far – this lack of experience also hurts us when exporting. We are currently experiencing that all around us, in our neighbouring countries, infrastructure projects such as waste water plants, treatment plants, canal construction, power plant construction, road construction and cetera are being built through privately funded operating models and that, unfortunately, the Austrian economy does not have the nose there because we do not really control these models. In this respect, French, Spanish and Italians are always a nostril. A positive example that contradicts my theory is the M-1 motorway to Budapest, where an Austrian consortium, together with the French, has very probably passed through an operator model and thus succeeded. I therefore believe that in the future, we must strengthen this new form of financing, which all the development banks also demand, and that we must prepare our medium-sized economy for it. It is not a question of the medium-sized infrastructural construction being very well aware of how to get to federal funds, how to deal with the land funds et cetera, that they do not know how to offer and deal with operator models. I believe that it is a serious disadvantage for the export industry that we do not control it perfectly. That's where we need to catch up. With the private financing of infrastructure, not only can the already overburdened public budgets be relieved, but there are also a large number of side effects, such as risk taking away from the public sector to the private in planning, construction and financing and, as the Lower Saxony model shows, a cost savings of 10 to 20 percent. There are already over 80 operator models in waste water construction. Minister! This was just a suggestion with a view to bringing publicly funded infrastructure measures closer to the private sector. At the end of my speech, however, I have a very specific request to you, Minister. It concerns bureaucracy and the implementation of the laws. At present, the economy's greatest criticism of its burdens is mainly towards bureaucracy, its severity and – I regret to say this here – its occasional economic hostility. I am aware that we here in Parliament are making the laws that must then be implemented by the bureaucracy. It would, however, be particularly helpful to the economy if the bureaucracy had clear priorities to always stand on the side of jobs and the economy when it comes to discretion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It could certainly be much more economic-friendly in the administration within the framework of existing laws. Minister! I therefore urge you to set priorities for the economic location of Austria, for jobs, by directing your services to always be on the side of the economy in the event of official discretion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27054	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I should like to make sure that the speaking time is only two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27076	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Federal Minister! My appearance last week in my locker suit has documented exactly what is happening in today's budget debate: The Federal Government, the representatives of the government parties, will vote in favour of this budget, thus destroying jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Because of the castle suit?]] You will agree to this budget and thus destroy jobs, because you do not even know the indirect and the negative consequences that are not yet fully estimated. Today's budget debate was, in my view, a keyword debate, which has already been made solely by the word of the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce of Ing. Maderthaner, who showed only the danger of insolvency. If this is not a danger if this year's biggest wave of trouble in post-war times has taken place, and has already gone over the stage in 2043 insolvency and has lost 63.1 billion schillings of liabilities if this is not a disaster, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are still living in the same world. If Mr Peter said that he wanted to reduce the additional wage costs, then he should first tell me what additional wage costs he would like to reduce. For the 13th. And 14. Wage is not an additional wage, but this is only a distributed wage, once in the summer and once in the winter, and this is certainly for the workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not an additional wage. This is an income, and this will be distributed once in the summer and once in the winter. And so it is to be looked at. Therefore, Austria is definitely not to be measured by the high wage costs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27110	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27126	I should like to conclude by saying: Austria certainly has no problem with labour costs, which are 29 percent below that of Germany and 25 percent below those of Switzerland. We liberals will certainly not give our approval to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27156	Mr Marizzi is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27177	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If we have heard a rendition of the history of the toll today, we must note: There are, of course, different views in this respect, but we believe that this toll is an essential appeal to the construction industry, and that is very important to us right now. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the economy in this budget debate, we must also talk about the positive aspects of the Austrian economy. I don't think it makes sense to be sick, nor does it make sense to pray in good health, but it should speak the facts. Mr Prinzhorn is not here now, but Mr Haigermoser has today quoted Mr Barazon of the "Salzburger Nachrichten". Mrs. Margarete Freisinger writes in the Salzburger Nachrichten: "From the renovation case to the stock exchange star." If today every fourth VOEST-ALPINE-steel worker owns shares of the company, this is a great proof of trust in this company, especially in the Austrian economy. VOEST-ALPINE industrial plant construction has significantly increased its profits. As you take away the media, a large order from Saudi Arabia has now been landed with 9 billion schillings. We can be proud of that. Some time ago, some have said that one should make museums out of these establishments, others have talked about locking up. For example, if the VA-Tech increased the profit by 37 percent, if the Corex process is a "racer" around the world, you have to say: We're proud! You may not be proud, but we are proud. We didn't want to make or lock museums out of it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the international press, the international investors write: "Sparpaket improves Austrian credit quality," I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, They are just as Austrian Members and should represent the economy here and not always make the economy ready. This is what you are doing to the workers, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I heard your speeches today, how bad things are. I let that go. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Be quiet up there, now I'm talking, I have 5 minutes of speaking time, and in these 5 minutes I'm going to remove the optimistic, the positive and not just the negative as you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's take a look at this: BMW Austria again record sales. Kapfenberg receives a major order from Ford. Nettingsdorfer for 1996 satisfactory results. Sales and employee increase at Biochemistry Kundl, Heraklith Group increases sales by 27 percent. BauMax: 1996 will be the strongest expansion year. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Further: Nestlé Austria with an above-average turnover increase. Austrian industrial production increased in November 1995. Unisys Austria: More sales in 1995 and 1996. The Styrian industry is developing above average. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are black sheep there and there. I'll be there too. [[Abg. Aumayr: the "consumer"!]] There are positive settlement projects: BMW, Siemens, General Motors. If we consider that Siemens invests 3.5 billion Schilling in the building building in Villach, where we have opportunities for research, development, additional employment, then I must say one thing, Minister of State: The ERP fund certainly supports businesses with approximately 5.8 billion schilling a year. 75 percent of this goes to industry. Federal Minister! Now I want to tell you a story, you know it. There was the proud work of Brevillier-Urban in the district of Neunkirchen. At that time it had 1,700 employees. Then a Bulgarian owner, since Brevillier-Urban was in trouble, took over the operation, he received 30 million Schilling funding from the Austrian state. After five years, the Bulgarian owner locked up. Now the Bulgarian owner wants 160 million schilling for the 60 000 m2 reason. The machines went abroad, to Hungary or elsewhere, the employees were thrown out. The Austrian state was very generous. Federal Minister! You yourself are from this district, and I am saying this because you are now accusing and saying that you want to sum up all your funding. But we should consider that in the future. If we are generous in the promotions and companies comply with the promotion directives, they shut down their operations after five years, people throw out and then operate land speculation. First, however, give the public hand. Federal Minister! If we both did this in Bulgaria, we would be safe somewhere else than here in Parliament, we would be somewhere in a "hotel" with rods. Federal Minister! I therefore believe that it is necessary for us to have new directives in relation to economic promotions following this budget debate. Because it cannot be that way – and this is also partly about Semperit-Traiskirchen, which is the case with the Neukirch screw mills, and that also concerns the Euroquartz in Ternitz, where considerable funding has been given – that the companies then finally move their productions to nearby other countries. Finally, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: I am glad that the entire economic debate is being debated by the parties that the apprentice is of the importance that the skilled worker has in place. The Austrian economy lives by the skilled workers. Let us also let the skilled workers live from the Austrian economy! It is necessary for us to discuss a common worker concept here in this Parliament in the near future, that we discuss the new apprenticeship training. I think this makes sense, because in the apprentices and in the skilled workers there is also a part of the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27239	Mr Koppler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27269	But not from the taxpayer! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Prinzhorn – he is not here now, unfortunately – has begun the problem of the workplace situation, and Mr Blünegger has stopped by explaining the problem of the workplace situation. I believe that the problem of employment is too serious a matter for Poland's political capital to be found here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am proud - and you know that I am from Linz City - that in the last five years we have lost 10,000 industrial jobs, but at the same time created 20,000 new jobs. But the liberals did not make any contribution at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Dear colleague Meisinger! You're not a Linzer, you're just commuting to Linz. You have a safe job, and I hope you still have this safe workplace for a long time, because you are a co-competent of me to the works council election, and since you compete with me, we have the best works council results. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I hope that you have a safe job for a very long time and that you can still run for a very long time at the works council election. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As regards the Social Budget chapter, my colleague, Mr Nürnberger, pointed out the problems of apprentices in the framework of the Structural Adjustment Act last week. I am very glad that some Members have already discussed the particular problem of apprentices in today's debate. In view of the particular economic importance, in my contribution to the budget chapter of the economy, I am mainly limited to the current apprenticeship situation, because I also want to be solid with my colleagues who will speak after me. It is shocking that in Sunday's speeches, many political and economic personalities have repeatedly expressed themselves in contradiction with apprentices' questions. Mr. Federal Minister! You too have given an opinion on the question of apprentices today. I would like to point out that for two years in the Committee on Industry, there has been a request from Mr Koppler, Mr Verzellnich, Mr Nürnberg, which has not been dealt with so far, a request to support the apprenticeships which, in addition to the actual training, carry out additional training. [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to support us in dealing with these problems in the Committee on Industry or wherever – I do not care – wherever I am.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27344	I'd like to ask for a little more rest!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27359	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out to a few examples that there are differences of opinion and that many of them comment on this problem in Sunday's speeches. Landesrat Aichinger from Upper Austria appeals in the Sunday "Krone" of 21. April 1996 to entrepreneurs, they should train more apprentices. The President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Nettig, presents an emergency programme in five points and calls for the financial and social deterioration of apprentices. Similarly, the Head of Education of the Chamber of Commerce calls for a reduction in vocational education. A few weeks ago, the interest groups of entrepreneurs launched an image campaign for the advertising of apprentices. In view of these contradictions, it is no wonder that we do not take a step forward in the question of apprentices. With Sunday's speeches, as I mean, we don't solve this problem. The 1995 vocational training report, which has also been pointed out, contains a wealth of statistical data. At the same time, it refers to a number of difficulties and problems related to vocational training. In addition to some findings, there are no approaches to reforms and improvements in dual training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In my view, training establishments should not benefit from the provision of funding for teaching occupations leading to unemployment in the medium term. This is why only those training establishments which, in the sense of the request I have mentioned, provide extraordinary training benefits in the field of vocational training must be taxed financially. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to support these considerations for the benefit of our young people, for the elimination of youth unemployment and for the improvement of Austrian competitiveness. – A cordial happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27405	Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27426	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The current budget chapter also takes into account the so-called mining funding for 1996 and 1997. I would like to thank once again, as a representative of the top Irish industrial region, in which the Styrian Erzberg is also located, for the fact that the budgets of the coming years and the current year also provide appropriate resources for the maintenance of mining in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This mining aid is mainly used to compensate for the site disadvantage of the iron ore mining industry. Of course, it also supports other mining plants, which are largely on the retreat. I am very glad that Austria has been providing this mining aid since 1979. The importance of this is also shown by the fact that the steel economy could be used particularly well for the mining of ore last year. In 1995, for example, a reduction of 1.9 million tonnes has been achieved, although only 1.3 million tonnes have been agreed with the VOEST-ALPINE steel. I'm coming to the area... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At the end!]] That's what you'd like to wish, colleague Schwarzenberger. That was the last time. But I have put something in the budget papers, and since the sheer is so far apart as the State's services for agriculture and the state's services for industry are concerned, I should like to ask you to speak here for a while in the sense of industry and mining. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The shortage between farmers' incomes and industry's incomes also varies widely!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the Austrian steel industry has developed from a concerned child to a stock exchange winner. The entire steel industry in Austria, mainly the VOEST-ALPINE steel, achieved its best year in 1995 with a record profit of 3.4 billion schilling. As a representative of the Styrian area, I can say that we have achieved a profit of 250 million schilling. The stock exchange has been successfully handled, and Donawitz, at the heart of the top Irish sector, achieved the best consolidated result with 28 percent in terms of employee participation. I see this as a great sign of confidence in the operation in Donawitz, in the Obersteiermark. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! For Donawitz, however, it was also a right decision – if some do not want to hear it, I would like to stress it again and again – that we were able to obtain the liquid phase. For those who have not been involved in this field: The liquid phase is the blast furnace combined with the steelworks. Therefore, we are able to supply our own production plants adequately. It is even newly delivered to the blast furnace IV. This means that this self-sufficiency is guaranteed beyond the turn of the millennium. From this point of view, I am particularly grateful to our Federal Chancellor for his very important support. I'm convinced: Without his support, we could not have achieved this success. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to devote myself very briefly to the Freedom Party. It has no more speaking time, so it has agreed on collective calls. I would like to say the following: 1987 was a year we will not forget. There is Mr Blünegger somewhere. If you think, Mr Blünegger, that the Social Democrats and the ÖVP, the coalition partners, are those who destroy jobs by making decisions on these budgets, I must tell you, dear friend: You're the destroyers! Our industrial region would have been dead for a long time, and more than 4,000 people would be without employment! This is your employment policy, the Freedom Party! You are not at all worthy of such a discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] Dear friends! You've got a new business speaker. I read interesting theses yesterday, Mr Stadler. What do you say? He thinks you can choose the shark, too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't you believe that? You can't pick the SPÖ president! Our chairman can be elected!]] Whether this does not mean a red note in the FPÖ club book, I would like to leave it there. Mr Prinzhorn has here referred to the more often that he is against monetary union. I have a very ambivalent relationship with Mr Prinzhorn. He took over a farm in my district, Brigl and Bergmeister. We have been very grateful to him for having received jobs. But the first measure he took was that he was running the workforce and reduced the wage to the collective contract wage level. Then when the friends who were annoyed by the SPÖ at the time heard that the holidays should be deleted or moved on the weekend, and when the workers of our government, who were supposed to go a bit of the way with you, learned that Mr. Prinzhorn was a candidate for the National Council elections, that was the best electoral campaign that you could offer us. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That would be non-Catholic, I would be against it!]] We have also achieved the best results of the National Council elections, together with the Bruck District. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's no freeman who candidates in Donawitz, because there's no interest in it. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be calmly proud of our steel industry. We have, among other things, a high-tech product, which is the rail. We are technology and market leaders in Europe. We have head-hardened rails, we have a new patent for particularly low-noise rails, and we have the longest rails in the world at 120 meters. Ladies and gentlemen! But now it is enough with the FPÖ, I can now devote myself to the ÖVP. At present we have job problems in Donawitz; I must say that quite openly. I don't want to simplify, but you can find something: Due to the crisis caused by the ÖVP economic party in our country with its announcement of the coalition in autumn last year, the following has happened – this is my personal opinion, which covers many in my group, which is covered by the opinion of the Social Democrats and the workers of my district, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP –: [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Is this your partnership relationship?]] There was no more room for action. The financing of public procurement was not available either, and now we are faced with the situation that there are major job losses in Donawitz, in the area of rolling steel production, because there has been no public procurement for the construction industry and also because the ÖBB has not ordered any orders in the railway rolling mill. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Were the tracks not long enough?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another personal note. Mr Kukacka - which I must say quite honestly to you - has caused great disappointment in us. I hope that was a unique slipper. We need a community, we need this reconstruction partnership. The workers in Donawitz told me: See that you come to a solution with the ÖVP. It is the best way to solve the problems of social partnership. And now they expect us to continue working for four years – and not to start drilling again in any wounds. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We didn't start!]] I would suggest that you should go back to Members of this House. How long?, your clubman said yesterday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: I thank our Federal Chancellor. There's hope for Donawitz. In the autumn of this year, hopefully, the order books will be filled again. There is a large Iran contract that would take advantage of Donawitz and the downstream plants for two and a half years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is optimism! We're glad!]] The chancellor has given way with the control bank; it still depends on Iran itself. I am confident that we will also be mastering this difficult situation. A warm steiric happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27604	Mr Müller is now on the list of speakers. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27626	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The construction industry has a key role to play in the overall economy. We all know the problems in this area, and therefore the public sector is of particular importance to the promotion of construction activity. The value added of the construction industry is expected to increase by 160 billion Schilling, its share of gross domestic product is 7.6 percent, and the gross value of the construction industry, including intermediate services, is 300 billion Schilling. Especially with regard to the current employment situation in our country, the share of the construction industry in total employment is of vital importance with over 8 per cent. As this economic sector is above average personnel-intensive and also has a high domestic value added in its investment sector, we should give it our full support. Ladies and gentlemen! Recent calculations have shown that construction investments amounting to 1 billion schillings on average result in nearly 1 700 employees. Due to the worrying development in the construction sector, the Federal Government has responded immediately, and an investment offensive has been launched by the ministers concerned in the field of infrastructure and has decided which will increase in 1996 but will continue to increase in 1997. Recently, additional investment measures have been announced, financed by advances on future assigned revenue, such as from the toll. In the high-level road network alone, construction orders with an immediate start of construction are waiting for 14 billion schilling, and with an additional nearly 12 billion schilling can be expected for 1997 to 1998. Overall, the investment package includes additional structural expenditure of around 35 billion Schilling by the year 2000. In particular, the transport infrastructure, which is particularly important in Austria through a special position, will benefit from this increase. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a historic opportunity through the opening of the East to open up a large future economic area in its immediate neighborhood. This creates long-term site benefits for our Republic. So let us take this opportunity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no doubt that the transport connection between Eastern and Central Europe and Austria also entails a burden due to its geographical location as a transit country. That is why we call for the development of these networks in the interests of our people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is worth mentioning that infrastructure investment will become almost entirely effective domestically and will have significant positive effects on employment. It is therefore a step towards high employment rates, which we all call for and most urgently need. Unfortunately, in recent years it has been generally observed that the federal government, but also the countries as a client, are losing importance in buildings. It is also evident that in recent years the investment climate has been clearly opposed to the further expansion of the infrastructure. This announced investment offensive therefore signalises a turnaround that will have a positive and lasting impact on the economic stability of Austria. This investment in the public sector significantly relieves the current difficult situation in the construction sector. Of course, it must also be taken into account that infrastructure investments are not only made for the purpose of building, but rather they must be used to ensure disposal and disposal in all important areas of life. This investment policy must, however, be able to guarantee, regardless of day-to-day and difficult budgetary measures, the infrastructure that is urgently needed for the further successful development of the Austrian economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! Carinthia is one of the most affected states, which particularly feels the negative effects of the weakened construction economy. Therefore, for us Kärntner the major federal construction projects such as the Autobahnlückenschluß Klagenfurt – Volksmarkt, the construction of the security centre and the expansion of the University of Klagenfurt are so important. They must be started as quickly as possible in order to be successful against the currently so high level of unemployment in construction. The funds needed are available in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. The planned construction projects, according to the Minister of Economic Affairs, can be started immediately if the projects are ready for construction. That is why we will have to ask the question and clarify whether the responsible Landbänderferent Grasser is not sparse and has to answer for a delay, because the ball is currently being pushed back and forth. In the case of Carinthia and its labour market, we cannot accept a further delay; it must be acted on as soon as possible. The planned implementation of the construction projects, which are reflected in the 1996 and 1997 budgets, is not only based on the necessary employment impulses, but also on the expansion of the long-term overdue infrastructure and much better framework conditions for our southernmost federal state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27702	Mr Riepl has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27723	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In the budget chapter of buildings, the area of road construction and road maintenance is an important position, not only because of the considerable use of resources, but also because of the attractiveness of our country as an economic location and a tourist country. My previous speaker made a few comments on the subject of road construction, and I would just like to add a few figures, because I think it pays off looking at statistics in the context of such a debate and making ourselves aware of the importance of road construction and road maintenance in our country. If you count all motorways, highways, federal and state roads, the municipal roads and the freight roads together, we have a road network from which each of us benefits, whether he is a worker or an economic operator, whether he is a student or a student, of a total of 205,000 kilometres. That corresponds – a simpler Comparison is permitted – around two thirds of the distance between Earth and Moon. Ladies and gentlemen! A safe and efficient road network is important. In this context, however, it is also important to close the gaps in the road network and in particular in the high-level road network. From the point of view of Vienna – this remark is allowed to me – is of course the B 301, which is particularly important as an southeast crossing for Vienna in connection with transit traffic, which is becoming ever stronger and becomes an ever-increasing burden for the city of Vienna and for the city area. I therefore believe that, in the next few weeks, months and years, the B 301 must be quickly put into a construction phase, as this is a very important project for the eastern region of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The maintenance of our road network costs a lot of money, around 7.5 billion schilling a year, and it's also very interesting to know, for example, what one kilometer of motorway or express road costs in the maintenance, namely the well-known sum of 1.85 million schilling – only for the maintenance of one kilometer of highway or highway! I have tried to point out with these figures that it makes sense in this area to ensure that the necessary resources are available and that the state of our road network is preserved or expanded. As the second part of my speech, allow me to make only two comments on two previous speakers in this debate. I would like to make a brief comment on the comments made by Mr Drinkl. He spoke about training in the economy and about the possibilities of apprenticeship training. He mentioned the need for reforms. I'm sure. I also say that reforms are necessary, and I think it is also very good to point out that there are areas in our country where entrepreneurs do not complain of too high a cost, but provide them with enough teaching places, such as in Lower Austria, for example. In yesterday's "Volksblatt" one could read: The vocational school is overcrowded, there are enough apprentices who want to start an apprenticeship, and there are enough employers to provide the apprenticeships. As a small example, it is also different that one must not only lament costs, but that, if one takes training seriously, one can provide enough places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mr Blünegger is now entering the hall, but I am not glad that Mr Prinzhorn is not in the hall, I do not see him at all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are not so interesting that he has to listen!]] I think it is also important to point out two or three sentences which are currently under way in Mr Prinzhorn's speech, once again in the debate. He used the wording: Nine years of economic and industrial policy in our country have brought nothing further. – This statement was, of course, made towards government. I think it should be kept to it once again – it has already been done several times in the debate –: In these nine years there have been changes in the industrial landscape, international corporations have settled, and sites have been expanding. Today we have more employees than nine years ago, there are higher wages, and there is for everyone in this country, whether you want to hear it now or not, a little more prosperity. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] One of the reasons for this is that we are trying to pursue a reasonable economic policy, in all the opposites, and I believe that we have succeeded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Prinzhorn is a passionate entrepreneur. And I'm a passionate employee representative. I have respect for entrepreneurs, especially those who are doing something more, taking seriously the participation of the works council in the holding as a partner, who make co-determination the basis of their business policy, which applies and expands the promotion of education and training towards their employees and which has a social basis. I do not yet know Mr Prinzhorn so well that I can say that he belongs to this group of entrepreneurs I mean and I respect. But there will be the cooperation here in the house for me as one of the new ones perhaps opportunity to answer this question a little later. Ladies and gentlemen! But he has shaped another sentence, and I think I have correctly understood it and written it along. He said: You will have to take the real wage loss. – He said this a little bit, but I assume that this sentence is also legible in the Minutes. And I do not think we should do so, any real wage losses, no matter where they occur, with active employees or with pensioners, but we should do everything in this House to do that there is no real wage losses, no loss of purchasing power and no loss of prosperity in our Republic. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Feurstein and Blünegger.]] But in Mr Prinzhorn's speech there has also been a sentence that I fully agree with. He said: I hear a bit bad. – And I agree. I'd say, Either he needs a doctor or he needs a lower distance to the one talking to him. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is this a virgin speech?]] He said it from this pult towards the back of the bank, and I think the closer distance he could make with his seat neighbor, with his colleague Blünegger, especially on the issue of real wage loss. I could imagine that would be an interesting discussion. [[Abg. Blünegger: Let's do it!]] I'm asking you to have this discussion with him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27820	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27849	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the issues that concern consumers are dealt with in your Federal Ministry – unfortunately often alone and without coordination. Just as Mr Riepl is a passionate employee representative, I am personally a passionate consumer protectionist. I therefore believe that the rights of consumers must be safeguarded, particularly at the level of administrative rights and economic rights. There are now figures to be questioned in the draft budget for the Federal Office for Emissions and Surveys. I take these documents from the fact that in 1996 and 1997 the amount of expenditure in kind is to be saved to the 40 million schillings. One has to deal with the question: What tasks do these Federal Offices have for Eich- und Vereichungswesen? I may only remind you of the discussion in the innhouses when it comes to whether vessels are used that are really devoted. I should like to remind you of certain pre-packs whose quantity must be checked by this office. I therefore ask you, Minister of State: Should these savings limit these police revisions, or will you make restrictions in the personnel sector? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are you a confessor?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: A giver!]] Or is it even meant to shut down some offices? . I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to give an answer to this because we need to build confidence in consumers in particular. However, I would also like to take a brief look at the comments made by my previous speakers and point out in advance: I have seen some of these statements on the subject of economics as very legendary and even adventurous. It's been spoken of by the bureaucracy. Mr Drinkl mentioned that certain legislation, such as guarantee and product liability, would affect the economy. I can tell you a few examples from my consulting practice. I do not see it as an impairment when someone enforces his rights, who rides with a mountain bike, in which the fork accidentally dissolves, he falls hard and lies in the hospital for three months. Or: The case of an apprentice who – also with a faulty mountain bike on the way – had to be severed and the spleen removed in an operation. I say that we have an international standard in this area, which is worth representing offensively in the public. But also to Mr Rossmann, who referred to the area of gastronomy, on the matter of hospitality. I can tell you that in our consultation areas there are hundreds of letters of complaint – not only from the country but also from abroad – on which this issue is addressed. If I think on my own that, especially in the gastronomy sector, some 30 percent of the farms have to be punished because they do not comply with the applicable rules for the award of prices, then I believe – and this is also in the interests of the economy, the entrepreneurs who comply with legal provisions – that we need more control in this regard. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For Austrian consumers, it is about two things: on the one hand, that their rights are better secured, especially in the economic field, and on the other hand, that they are controlled accordingly by public bodies. But that's where I see the shortcomings, Minister of State. For example, only the liability amount has been increased in respect of the amendment to the travel agency security regulation. This has not been the subject of the problems that have been discussed in recent years due to the now known bankruptcys. There has been no creativity at all to approach Brussels, for example, in order to require a change in the package travel directive. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you think that Carthage travels?]] Among other things, Mr Colleague, Carthage and Arena Travel. You know the problem. However, I would like to point out that we also need other changes. We need a broker order. However, we also need clarification on insurance brokers. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But what is the use of the laws if they are not controlled? I would therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to carry out the appropriate checks in all areas in which your competence has been conferred, whether in the field of pricing or in the field of the pre-packaging regulation and so on. I can conclude by doing so. Mrs Fekter asked Mr Bundesminister to set priorities for the economy and for the economic location of Austria, and I would ask you to set priorities for Austrian consumers, Mr Federal Minister, in two ways: firstly, that legal certainty be improved, namely through clearer and clearer provisions, and secondly, that compliance with these provisions be monitored accordingly by your ministry. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every voters is also consumers. It is up to you to represent the interests of consumers here in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27929	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Merchant. Please, honourable Member. [[Several Members speak to Federal Minister Dr. Ditz, who is sitting on the government bank.]] I would like to point out, on the occasion of this, what Mr Neisser said about transport here at the Intergovernmental Bank. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For short words, this may be quite nice, but in the long run it is a bit striking. Please, Mr Mag. Merchant.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e27968	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to focus on three points. First point: B 301. The B 301 is included in the construction project of the high-level network. The start of construction is planned for the period after 1998, and the environmental impact test procedure has already begun. It has already been made aware by a previous speaker of the importance of B 301, but, Mr Minister, I do not think there will be a B 301 because people in the region reject this roadway if certain conditions are not complied with. The B 301 has the sense of recording the traffic produced in the region of Schwechat-Mödling. That's an advantage. The B 301 will also bring a lot of new traffic to this region, because the East-West transit will pass because the B 301 will be a good link between the East and the West motorway. However, the south of Vienna, the districts of Schwechat, the districts of Mödling, will not be able to take up additional traffic, because this is already impossible. The framework conditions for the B 301 are therefore: In addition to the south route around Vienna, as a link between the East and West motorway, there must also be a north route. This north route is already marked in individual parts, from the east motorway to the Danube coast to Stockerau and then over the new Tullner Danube Bridge to the A 1. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This route is 13 kilometres longer than the B 301 – A 21, but it has no slopes. This northern route must only be presented as a closed concept and then be planned in the individual yet missing framework elements. The second condition is that the quality of noise protection measures at A 21 must be substantially increased. - That was my first point. The second point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the toll. I think that the many objections to this road toll are to a great extent covered. Tourism will therefore not collapse. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very right!]] There will not be a shift in traffic from the motorway away to the trams of the lower-ranking road network to a huge extent. But, Minister-in-Office of the Council, I see a major problem on one point. This is a major problem for the transport of Hungarian and Slovak vehicles to Vienna. Why? – The part of the motorway used is relatively short, in the extreme example, if you drive from Prussia to Vienna, less than 20 kilometres, when driving on the motorway at Fischamend, and the cost of the 2-month vignette at the level of 350 S is relatively high for a Hungarian or Slovak citizen. There must be about 20 to 25 gross hourly wages for this purpose. And it is already evident at the motorway in Hungary, from the Austrian border to Györ, whose passage with a passenger car costs 77 s, that 60 percent of the passenger car traffic and 70 percent of the truck traffic leave the motorway. It is therefore the danger in this one point – not in general, but in this one point – very, very large that many communities in the eastern and southern Lower Austria, in the northern Burgenland are facing a new wave of stress. Mr. Minister! This will be no reason to oppose the introduction of the vignette. But on Friday we have jointly adopted a motion for a resolution, and in this resolution you are asked to initiate an investigation into the transport effects on particularly sensitive routes in order to determine the extent to which there is a departure on the low-level road network. Mr. Minister! I would ask you not only to examine some of the western roads, but also, in particular, to include the B9, the B10 and the B16 in this investigation, because it is important to take countermeasures immediately. Mr. Minister! One last point, namely the petrol price: In Austria, as you know, we have a petrol price, which is more than 1 s above the German level without taxes, but even more above the European average level. And there is actually no sufficient reason and no sufficient arguments for why this is so. You have now left and abandoned the system of "glass bags", which has not worked. But such a system should not be abandoned but improved. I do not know why you and others expect the fuel price to fall now, because there could have been a competition down now. No petrol company has been prevented from starting a price under this maximum price. I believe that this bill will not go up. It is only important to note that, after a long period of time, you should find that prices do not fall and that they are inadequately high compared to Germany and other European countries, then really should respond very, very quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28012	Mr Ditz has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28033	Mr President. High house! In the short term, because the honourable Member mentioned the gas price: I think it must be said honestly that the higher net price in Austria is well founded with a denser gas station network, with other environmental requirements, with higher standards and also with larger transport routes. I have withdrawn the system of 'glass bags', not least because we are convinced that this high price is now being lowered very often, i.e. that in recent years market development has changed and competition has been very successful. It also works primarily towards tank tourism. Just one thing: If a social partner, the Chamber of Workers, no longer finds the system itself credible, then this system has lost its sense of contributing to the objective. On the contrary: It only leads to a permanent political debate on a market price which must also develop on the market. However, it has been the desire of the Chamber of Workers in particular to remove this. And it has been agreed as a condition for observing for a year now and not the next day immediate antitrust measures are required. I must honestly say that it takes a little while for market mechanisms to work. It is therefore necessary to consider this in peace, not to continue with political demands immediately, but to consider, after a year, whether it is necessary to put in place additional competition-stimulating measures. In my opinion, however, one thing is of course: To become a price regulation and we cannot return. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28075	No one is on the speaker list now. The debate is closed. I'll interrupt the meeting until tomorrow Thursday, 25. April 1996, 9 a.m. After resumption, discussions on the part of teaching and art begin. The meeting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 8.34 p.m. and suspended on Thursday, 25 February. It was resumed at 9 a.m. on April 9, 1996.]] Continued the meeting: 25. April 1996
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28118	Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of fundamental considerations, I take yesterday's interrupted 17th. The meeting of the National Council as agreed at 9 a.m. Members Rudolf Nürnberger, Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch, Dr. Walter Schwimmer, Robert Elmecker, Hans Helmut Moser, Dr. Irmtraut Karlsson, Peter Schiederund Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28176	For this meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Federal Minister Dr. In his capacity as Minister of Science, Scholten is represented by Federal Minister Michalek and in his capacity as Minister of Transport by Federal Minister Dr. Konrad. Minister of Defense Dr. Fassleven is represented by Minister of the Interior Dr. Einm. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel is represented by his State Secretary Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner. Federal Minister Bartenstein is represented in his role as Minister for the Environment by Federal Minister Molterer and in his role as Minister of the Federal Minister for Youth and Family by Federal Minister Dr. Gehrer. I would ask you to take note of this. .. Education and art Chapter 12: Submitted and cultural matters (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 13: Art (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 71: Bundestheater
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28237	We are continuing to negotiate the 1996 and 1997 budgets. For advice, the part is teaching and art. For today's day, the speaking times fixed in agreement are as follows: SPÖ 165 minutes, ÖVP 154 minutes, Freedom 143 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28265	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The agenda aims to ensure that the budget chapter on education and art is discussed jointly in a debate. Intergrouply – if I may say so – it has been agreed that in the various debates both the subject areas can be addressed, on the one hand, teaching, on the other hand also art, and naturally it will be the case that the individual speakers will set particular priorities. I regret the fact that Mr Scholten is not yet present. I do not propose this because on the agenda there are the chapters of education and art, and he probably assumed that the field of education comes first. As a cultural speaker of my group, my interest is, of course, art and the budget chapters that concern Federal Minister Scholten. At the beginning, given the fact that only Mrs Gehrer is present, a few words on education policy. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is quite clear: A good school success – Mrs. Federal Minister, you will give me a right – is not yet a guarantee for a study success and the less guarantee of success in practice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, it always happens – unless it is a comfort for troubled students, for bad students who do not achieve good grades – that bad students are quite successful in their studies and often more successful in professional practice, because in school, ladies and gentlemen, knowledge is learned above all. It is no secret, however, that this knowledge has only very conditionally something to do with a person's social intelligence. That is why we are increasingly going to talk not about an IQ in the sense of a purely intelligence quotient, but about a social intelligence quotient, and that is something else. This does not have to be covered by the knowledge learned. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural to judge the education and education system of a country: that young people are given the opportunity to prove themselves in the gymnasium in order to be able to attend the university without restrictions. In any case, I am a defender of free access to universities, because a matura certificate is not meaningful in whether a graduate of a general education higher school is actually suitable for study and for the profession he wants. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the field of art: Those who belong to the High House, who have sucked in the left dialectic in some way with breast milk, will know the name Antonio Gramsci very well. Antonio Gramsci, ladies and gentlemen, is the Italian Marxist, Socialist and Reform Communist of the first half of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website At the time, he said that the social-democratic party or the socialist movement as a whole would be of no use if one conquered the streets if one achieved success in the fields of labour and social policy, it was crucial that the bourgeois cultural hegemony would be replaced by a hegemony of socialist cutting. After this doctrine, ladies and gentlemen, cultural policy is being pursued in this country. It always happens that the freedom of opposition – including in contributions to debates – is subject to the importance of social democratic cultural hegemony, of this absolutity which the social democracy of culture raises. Again and again, in this respect, we are subject to a fixed idea of suffering from persecution, because we are constantly turning to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! The state politician Erwin Kemper recently published a book entitled "Treason to Austria". In it he reports on individual activities of Stasi liaison officers in Austria and their contacts with social democracy. If one reads those chapters of this book dealing with the education system, the education system and the culture, it will be recognized very quickly as a critical citizen that the accusation that the Freedom Party has repeatedly raised confirms that social democracy is about this cultural hegemony. Mr. Kemper, in his book, writes about a Stasi liaison officer who is deeply embedded in the social democratic field in Austria – his reports are partly printed. There is talk of a leading officer of the BSA. Ladies and gentlemen, for information: The BSA is the Federation of Social-Democrat academics, intellectuals, artists. Why do I say that? – I am therefore saying it because the BSA is an academic framework organisation of social democracy, which also takes on the interests of artists. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Right!]] And that is crucial for my remarks, bearing in mind Mrs Colleague, what this Stasi liaison officer has to say about the BSA and its executive officers. I quote literally from the facsimile print of the report of this Stasi liaison officer infiltrated into SPÖ: The mentioned BSA-functionary, "Romanist and Functionary of the Socialist University Teachers' Association, at the same time a leading man in the BSA (...)", is highly appreciated by the BSA-people as a "wanted tacticer" and "calculation genius". This high BSA-functionary – and I think it would be necessary to call it by name, because he had direct, closest contacts with the Stasi-connected man – says here – the era Kreisky was too bourgeois and too far right at that time – "... there is only one possibility: 'the migration of the party from the left'". And the official who belongs to your ranks hopes that "in the coming years, enough 'left elements' in the Ministry of Science and Research as well" – and the circle closes to the Ministry of Education – "to be able to accommodate in the Ministry of Education, so that in the foreseeable future, at least in the field of education, one can carry out a left truck. To this end, the new University of Klagenfurt (Hochschule für Bildungswissenschaften) with the help of socialist studentship and the introduction of left-wing teachers (...) will be ‘underrun’ as a possible area of influence of the left-wing forces." - That's what a BSA officer says. The thesis is confirmed that you, ladies and gentlemen, from social democracy, education, education and culture are not concerned with the dissemination of knowledge, not with the provision of art, not with the possibility of a free art climate, but only with the pursuit of ideology. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what we so strongly reject. And with a refreshing openness – I will quote that over and over again – the Vienna Cultural City Councillor Dr. Ursula Pasteur. She said: The art resort is an indispensable place of ideology, because – as it literally expressed itself – you can transport certain things. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the violation of the cultural policy of social democracy: the right to be exclusive, the right to be absolute and the use of art as a vehicle for the transport of ideology. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The left-wing artists make you fit through subsidies!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a legal problem in Austria that the promotion of art is only very limited in legal terms. In Austria, however, everything and every one, up to the cucumber bending, but where the decisive means are spent, there is only a very thin legal union. But after all, ladies and gentlemen, the art promotion law exists in 1981. This Art Funding Act requires that the holders of broadcasting permits have to provide a certain Obolus for the culture. This art promotion contribution, which is withdrawn by the Post, is divided in relation to the federal government – countries 70 to 30. In contrast to all other funding laws of the Republic of Austria, this Federal Act deals very closely with the appointment of the Advisory Council. The provision in § 2 para. 2 of the Kunstförderungsbeitsgesetz reminds of the federalist orientation, for example, of the occupation of the listeners' and seers' representatives on Austrian radio. There are 20 advisory council members appointed to submit proposals to the Minister for the use of the art promotion contribution. The selection of members is very precise. For example, four members are to be convened on a proposal from the countries, each one on a proposal from the representative associations of the cities and municipalities, one on a proposal from the Federal Chamber of the Industrial Economy and so on – a quite democratic body. Ladies and gentlemen! The result is the accusation I make to the minister of art who has not yet been present: It is precisely where it is legislatively regulated, how this advisory board is to be used, from which persons it has to recruit, what this advisory board has to do exactly, that the Federal Minister has a very negligent approach to the law and to the advisory system, and therefore a negligent approach, ladies and gentlemen, because, according to the art promotion law of this advisory board, this advisory council has to be convened again and again – at least once a year – and the Minister has to make concrete proposals on the use of the art promotion contribution. And in this area, which is legislatively precisely regulated, namely with the Art Funding Act, the Federal Minister is dealing very well with the law. As we have seen from a question answered by the Federal Minister Scholten on 21 January. On March 1, 1996, he explained this law against the clear word of law and against the spirit of the law in such a way that the Advisory Board was not appointed for a term of office, as expressly stated in the law, but only for a period of reporting. That is to say, the Federal Minister is turning this advisory board into a mere reporting body, a body which subsequently has to punish the promotion of art. That's the disgusting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is indeed objectionable that an advisory board established in accordance with the law is reduced in its function, that its function is devalued, and that it has only subsequently to carry out a sanctioning of the use of the cultural promotion contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Minister, that's what you should listen to! You're here in representation!]] This saloppe, this negligent approach to the law, is also evident in what form and how often this advisory council is called up. According to the spirit of the law, this advisory board is to be convened as often as it is necessary to discuss the use of the funding. In practice, however, it looks quite different. We know from a question made by the Minister that this advisory board is called up only once a year, because it is formally required, and then it is not a working session, but it is used to sanction art promotion reports, which have long been available, in retrospect. This was the case in 1995 too. This year, the Art Promotion Advisory Council met only once, but it did not decide at this meeting about the award of at least 80 million schilling annually, which comes from the art promotion contribution. ==References== The only meeting of the Advisory Council in 1995 was to determine whether the Advisory Council had taken place properly in 1994. The outcome has been achieved – as the Advisory Council found in 1995 – that this Advisory Council was unable to act in 1994. That's exactly what I blame the Minister: This body, which has to be found over the 80 million schillings that come from the ORF-Kunstschilling, whose establishment and activity is laid down by law, is devalued as a mere reporting body. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would simply like to ask the Minister of State to do one thing: The breach of law, a very clear breach of the Art Promotion Contribution Act. Now, if you use the Art Promotion Act of 25. On 1 February 1988, which concerns the rest of the art promotion, an examination was carried out, and it appears that only very vague provisions are contained in it. For example, § 9 mentions the fact that the Federal Minister has convened advisory councils in preparation for the promotions and the creation of the promotion directives. There's no more and no less. So where there is nothing in the law at all, the whole funding power is monopolized, and where it is very precisely defined what the advisory board is to deal with, namely the use of cultural schilling, the same is devalued. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the cultural debates of the present year and also last year, the possibility of taxing art purchases has been debated again and again. Mrs Gehrer has also shown herself very open to this idea on the occasion of her invitation to the Committee on Art last year. I also had Mr. Scholten on 28 May. In this House on February 1, 1996, I am surprised to say very recognized words about this idea of tax deductibility of art purchases. He said, "I am very glad that we are debating tax opportunities to promote art. I am someone myself," said Scholten, "who often complains that the private market is too little trained in many sectors." In principle, he said, whether he was very happy that the debate was being held on the recognition of benefits for art purchases. That's something very important, too. It is not a question of abolishing federal art promotion entirely and replacing it with fiscal measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it's not about either of them, but it's about both. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My then disbelief with the words of Minister Scholten was confirmed by a report in the "Standard" on a debate by the Minister of Art Scholten, who spoke a completely different language there. It was a discussion about the Saturday issue of the "standard" of the 13th edition. ==References====External links== There the minister of art said exactly the opposite of what he had preached to us here in the House. Here he meant that it would be useful to discuss it, and it would be useful to deal with the subject of tax recognition of art expenditure. A month later, he told the public exactly the opposite. I quote literally: "The Minister gave a clear rejection to the proposals to introduce tax advantages for art purchases. The deposition motif appeared to him as an incentive to buy too ‘mysterically’. Also, the assessment by officials of the Ministry of Finance, which is still art and what is no longer art, is insurmountable problems." Finally, he says: "The cultural climate suffers from much, but not from tax law." That says a minister who himself tends to overestimate his own judgment that tends to self-righteousness! Here in the House, he distributes sedative tablets as well, saying: Everything is all right, it is quite positive that we discuss the tax recognition of art purchases!, and in the immediate turn it turns around 180 degrees and gives these subsidies a clear rejection. His argument that it is not a matter of someone deciding what art is and what is not is double-bidden, ladies and gentlemen. Because what does the advisory board do, what do these curators do? But nothing else but to vote on art and art promotion. You don't do anything else! This is a classical schine argumentation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially at a time when there is discussion about the taxation of service providers, such as works contracts and free service contracts, and which is very different, what is covered by the social security obligation, by the source tax, in which an overregulation takes place, measures which are simply no longer administrative, exactly at that time, Scholten says that the tax recognition of art purchases is impossible, because this is simply not possible. That's really a perfidy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28378	Deputies! I would ask you to take back this expression.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28393	I, of course, submit to this call for order, take this expression back, but repeat that it is very likely that it is a doubling capacity and a Janus capacity, on the one hand, to place itself in the High House and to say that it is very positive that one speaks about art promotion contributions, about the tax recognition of art purchases, and on the other hand to say exactly the opposite. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President. What words should one describe this behavior, if not with words such as Janus' capacity, double-beddedness, or split tongue? On the one hand, you say A, and on the other hand, you say exactly the opposite of what you have preached before. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a single ideological reason why the Federal Minister finally rejected the recognition of the tax amounts for art purchases. There is an ideological reason for this, and this ideological cause is that the art understanding of the Minister of Art, his political understanding of art, is to decree everything from above. And this is very clearly seen in the promotion of the free groups, the interest groups. Everything is organized there. Mrs Schmidt! They are also involved in this socialist case, because they are committed to these communities of interest, for these cultural initiatives. It is right that autonomous cultural initiatives should be supported. That's not a question at all. But is it true that everything is organized in a monocratic way, starting from the community of interests of culture at the federal level to the communities of interest at the national level – in Upper Austria the cultural platform is the link – up to the individual cultural initiatives? – 67 is the number. That's this network, this cultural network that's being set up here that's being organized through. Mrs Schmidt! From this point of view, it is incomprehensible that you are getting into this socialism trap. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They know exactly which officials are driving their beings there. That's a certain power. Franz Primetzhofer, who is president of IG Kultur at the federal level. At the same time he was also active in the Oberösterreich cultural platform, he is also the chairman of the Schwerberg Canal and has been a communist student leader in this country. And this association Kanal Schwerberg is nothing but the distribution site of the "TATblatt". You should think, Mrs Schmidt, about what people you are working for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also the only reason why the Minister of Art wants to continue to stick to a state culture and art promotion monopoly. He has created this organization, and he can use it in any political and ideological way. And so it was not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, when, according to the weekly magazine "profile", the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has established a chain letter campaign for artists, i.e. a snowball system, a system that is constantly and rightly subject to criticism. It is always discussed whether to ban these chain letter campaigns and these pyramid games. Just after this pattern of knitting, the minister of art uses the artists he is friends with, who are once again grouped into the interest groups and over which the tax payer's filling horn is then poured out again. He uses this artist, and he says: Each of the mentioned ten artists, who all live very well from the promotions, should again address ten other art interests who in turn have ten more artists to write to operate party-political agitation and propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen! That is in fact the background! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this is also the only background, which is why the interest of the Federal Minister Scholten continues to be directed towards maintaining the socialist art monopoly in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28477	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28499	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the area of the "teaching and art" budget this morning, we should look at the dimensions of this area. I shall try to make clear with a few figures what large sector in society we are dealing with with with these budgets. It is the largest service company in Austria to be addressed throughout the education sector. There are almost 1.2 million people integrated as pupils in the field of education. That is to say, this largest service company in Austria is shaping and determining the future, the prospects for the future of currently 1.2 million young people in Austria. That is, what we are discussing today, what conditions we give these people, the future of Austria will decide in the coming years and decades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank those who bear the main responsibility for this, namely the around 115 000 educators – in primary school, primary school, AHS, BHS, BMS, in vocational schools – because the challenges for these 115 000 people are increased by the social changes each. We know that the enormous challenges are often linked to tensions in society. We have some 380 000 people in elementary schools, 270 000 in primary schools, 176 000 in the AHS, about 300,000 in vocational schools. So there are large areas that are cared for by these 115 000 educators. And I think I can say one thing: Although the school is the largest service company in the world, it has to deliver constant offers over the years and decades, on the other hand, an ever-increasing range of this entire supply potential has to be constantly geared to new challenges and has to meet the social challenges. But one thing I would also like to say: The school cannot compete with any deficit that appears in society with such offers. The school cannot be the correction center in society, so it would be overwhelmed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we should take this into account in the light of a very intensive education policy discussion that we have experienced in recent months due to new challenges, including financial challenges: The Austrian school has not only passed well in international comparison, but excellently cut off. And I think we should take this as a starting point for further development. So we have built on a foundation that confirms, in international comparison, in the OECD comparison, that quality and performance are offered by the Austrian school and that we are preparing our students better than many other countries for the future, and I believe that we can be quite proud of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said: Of course, every institution, including this largest service company in Austria, has to meet the new challenges, and we know that, as a result of the consolidation of each sector, it has to make its contribution to do so. But what I would like to highlight in this whole discussion is the following: The whole discussion has been conducted in a partnership way, and it has been discussed in good time with the interested parties and their representatives. The teachers and the public service union have been integrated, and this has ultimately led to the partnership and implementation of these reforms. That is to say, from the spirit of the partnership, difficult situations can also be mastered. And I say to the ÖVP: We are committed to this partnership style of solution because we believe that only this partnership style for a democratically mature society is the right way to political preparation and implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To consolidate almost 2.5 billion schilling is not little, one must highlight this praisefully and, in particular, to thank the Federal Minister for this attitude, for the way in which direct encounters with those concerned. I believe that it has certainly not happened in all areas as it has done in the field of education. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this kind of way, for this peaceful form and for the implementation of effective consolidation measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the challenges, which, in addition to the financial changes of course, must also bring about improvements in terms of content. We have, in particular, in recent years started to carry out a revolution with regard to competences in school if you want to do so. We have no longer held fast to many competences in the central, but we have shifted them to those levels on which the decision is necessary. This process has run under the Chiffre more autonomy, more decentralisation, more regionalization. And this process, as I believe, should be emphasised in this debate at all. We started in 1995 – that is, about half a year ago, in autumn – an autonomous offensive, model tests in 24 selected schools in Austria of all kinds of schools. On the one hand, there is an attempt to give the individual schools more opportunity to participate in financial autonomy, i.e. to give a kind of transparent allocation of all the budgets, and on the other hand, they will be given the opportunity to save, to rework within this budget. And for the first time, the individual schools are given the opportunity to make money for it. That is, the creativity, the initiative of individual unity is promoted. I believe that this is something that we have to strive for in our society as a whole: more self-responsibility for the individual, but also for the smaller one. The principle of subsidiarity imposes on us as politicians that we create framework conditions so that the idea of greater responsibility in the smaller area is possible. I think this school effort in the 24 selected schools is a classic example of how this idea will be helped to break through. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a large number of administrative simplifications, a right of participation in human resources decisions, a reduction of bureaucratic measures – all these models are to be tested for about two years. And I think we can say after these two years that this autonomous idea should be implemented and spread and characterise school life in Austria. Next point: Each of us has tried to shape the development of education policy according to three guidelines: to offer first quality and to improve quality, to maintain the diversity of supply, to increase, if possible, and, thirdly, to give a special position to the idea of performance also in the school field. Because one thing is clear: We live in a service society, and that institution that has to prepare for life cannot stand out from the thoughts that otherwise shape life. That is to say, the idea of performance is undoubtedly an essential form of school education. Again: Quality, diversity and performance – three criteria according to which the entire improvement of our school policy is to be achieved and which then have to take place in school reality. In other words, in addition to autonomy, internal school reform, internationalisation, more offers in the foreign language field and a reorientation in vocational education and training are to take place. We have also heard in the Coalition Agreement that, of course, an improvement of the polytechnic system, the entire field of vocational training and the transitions must be made, with the aim that there can no longer be a conclusion without further training. That is an important question. If I choose an educational path, then this path should not lead me to a dead end, but it should give me the opportunity to get closer to the educational idea that is advocating to the individual. There is no doubt that we want to be in line with an additional area, namely the idea of lifelong learning. Finally, we must conclude by believing that we need training, to go through a course of education, and that we should have taken care of it for the whole life and formed ourselves enough. We need to know that there is a continuing need to give additional impetus and make offers. I believe that in this year, which is Europe's year of lifelong learning, many surveys and many events deal with the aspect of lifelong learning. And perhaps it is possible to change the awareness in Austria that lifelong learning is a continuing challenge to education policy. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What we now have to do and what we have to discuss today and what we will have to decide on Friday, that is tomorrow, is to lay the budgetary foundations for these challenges. That is, we need our schools, our education system for the 21st century. ==References====External links== We want to act in a system and work constantly on improvements, with the aim of ensuring that those who are integrated into this educational process feel comfortable: the pupils, the teachers, but also the parents. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Goodness!]] A well-being is always a positive expression of social feeling. The school should not be afraid, but should make an essential contribution to the well-being. That is, we need the school with internal reforms, with more autonomy, with more possibilities even higher quality for the 21st century. ==References====External links== But it will also be a key role of education policy in this and in the coming years to meet the challenges that each individual then faces in life. I believe that a consolidation programme, which bears the title "Saves with Economic Reason", provides a good basis. We from the People's Party say on this course because it is a course that secures the future of young people.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28577	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28602	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl has now said something very important: How necessary it would be to make the school from a place of fear to a place of personal well-being. However, I believe that we do not yet find the structures for this, and as long as we stick to the read-out mechanism and to this faulty assessment system at Austria's schools in the present form, fear will be omnipresent in our schools for so long. And there are now many matura classes in all places and places – even my daughter is in this situation. Go to schools and see how scared the students are. You, Mr Höchtl, also talked a lot about education offensive, about training offensives, about life-long learning. These are all the objectives that we welcome as we support, but I am concerned that many of these terms remain with a keyword and that realistic implementation will be kept waiting for it. Thank you, Madam Minister of Education! They're in a broadcast on 24 May. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken about the fact that the school is not necessarily better and that it is a matter of personal responsibility to schools. They mentioned that you have seen teachers in an emancipated school who are responsible for the whole, directors with management qualities and school partners who play their new role. And you also said you wanted to initiate an improvement in teacher education and further education. Unfortunately, the political reality seems different in my opinion. If you say, Mr Höchtl, that we would now be the budgetary basis for a new school, for a school that takes us into the 21st century. I have to say, "It's the first century that will lead, create, then I have to say: Unfortunately, I see very little in this budget. Although there is a point in the Coalition Agreement and there is a reference to it, in the budget speech of the Minister for Finance, the word 'education' did not occur at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on school, on internal development, on quality must not only take place within the framework of consolidation measures, otherwise it is precisely what happened in the final reduction of school hours in secondary level I: In principle, a useful measure, a basic approach towards pedagogical form, is therefore necessary because the necessary framework conditions have not been created in the context of a Husch-Pfusch action, in the context of the need for consolidation, and because, ultimately, the reason is partly lacking in the content area. We do not have a new curriculum yet, it will only be expected in two years. How will this affect school itself? How much schoolwork will be pushed into domestic work if teaching material remains unchanged? There will also be an ageing of the teaching body because the flexibilization of the right to serve does not keep to a desirable degree with this measure. We will find the new impulses, the new pedagogical approaches of young colleagues. And I really wonder why this reform did not mean that, in the primary sector, a start should ultimately be made in a new area, in the secondary sector, and that reforms should be introduced. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Schlögl, State Secretary, has shown that, as I believe, the opposition could not be satisfied with austerity measures that ultimately affect school again. We really have to deal with alibiactions in a wide range of areas, with a partial reduction of privileges. Mr Höchtl! If you are here to such a great extent praising the partnership between interest groups, teachers and the government's negotiators, I must tell you: I believe that this was a partnership, and the result also looks like that, but in fact only those measures of which the pragmatized teacher is only relatively small or not affected - to a small extent only if he still believes that he has a right to have a legal right to overtime in times when thousands of young, committed teachers are without work at all. I ask – also from the current occasion and because the Secretary of State has announced that Pragmatization will no longer be carried out in the future in the event of new attitudes – whether it is also ensured that Pragmatization will be banished as obsolete, as no more contemporary, as an anti-performance instrument, hopefully even in the future by Austria's schools. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, in the budget figures of the individual sectors it is also apparent that it could not be so serious as to reduce overtime, for example. I am concerned if we have a ratio of 3 billion schilling of regular staff costs to 1 billion schilling of overtime costs in the field of commercial and technical training institutions. That means, on average, the teacher is overtime for three regular lessons. The additional income that comes to you, although young colleagues stand without work, can easily be calculated by everyone. In my opinion, you have not expressed your wish to do so on this point. Why allocations to religious communities as a whole need to be increased by around 160 million schilling in savings times is just as questionable as the fact that funds at Quasi elite schools, such as the Theresianum and the International School, are significantly increased, while alternative schools with a frozen budget of 1.1 million schilling – they had 100 000 S increase – need to find out. I believe that, unfortunately, the manuscript of the ÖVP can be seen very clearly here. Although it is talking about competition, it does not really want to allow competition in the school sector, otherwise it would have to be created those conditions that guarantee fair competition in schools and not unilaterally favour religious private schools. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And I agree that adult education will be of increasing importance. You, Mr Höchtl, have called for lifelong life-long learning. But the only realization that initial training is only part of the overall education and that in the school itself only the basis for lifelong learning can be laid will not do anything. The recognition of the importance of lifelong learning alone will not be enough. You must also show your will to reform and set impulses, and you have not done so. If I look at the budget approach in this area, I note that it is only 10 million shillings higher for 1996 than for 1994. Mrs. Minister! You have also recognized this, you already have, since the budget for the next two years is set, requires new resources, you want a share of the privatisation proceeds. I would like to ask you to make it available to you by those responsible, for example, those who are responsible for it. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the Austrian school and when we develop visions for the future in this regard, we have a very difficult time because the Austrian school is still in the past to a large extent. And that's why it's very difficult to pass the present and look right into the future. If the Minister of Education keeps saying that the Austrian school system has just grown up historically, ladies and gentlemen, then this cannot be the explanation and it must not be the excuse that we are experiencing, as it were, a standstill for 20 years. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] From a liberal point of view, I would like to offer you some criticisms: The Austrian school system is still, despite all autonomy, characterized by party politics and political proporz. It is still constitutionally established in the colleges of the National School Councils. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The political corruption of this system is already evident on the basis of the re-establishment of the former Secretary of State Schaffer. The political corruption of this system is evident in many cases, which are constantly criticized by the Public Procuratorate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28698	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I ask you, also in the light of public reflections, to choose the way in which all political groups wish to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28713	Please apologize, Mr President, I will take this back. I put it to: The party's role in the appointment of directors and school inspectors has been strongly criticised by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the last three reports. They have not shown any approaches in this regard. You, of course, still wish – despite all the autonomy testimony – your power apparatus to the countries, and you try to defend it with all possible possibilities. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Look at the situation. In Carinthia, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, several executive posts at vocational schools are empty, the lack of post-retirement has been criticized. No director was thought to have been found in the corresponding party color. In Tyrol, parents and teachers go to the streets to make clear to the public unbearable conditions in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that party politics must not have lost anything at school. We understand something else by honest autonomy. We do not believe that autonomy may be limited to the ability to earn from schools through the rental of gyms and the opportunity to finance education through advertising revenue. We see the school as the basic task of the State, and it must also be financed by the State, in any case in the field of primary education. I wonder, What kind of autonomy is this in our schools, which does not even allow these teachers, these school partners, the teachers who you yourself conjure up to not even the ability to choose the school directors on time, and the recruitment of teachers who should ultimately fit into a teacher's team, and in this way also to provide a certain guarantee for performance and performance control? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Niederweiser! You have, for me, brought back an old liberal theme, namely the abolition of the two-thirds-legislative matter in the school sector. Thank God there was a change of opinion in this regard. Not long ago, this was still rejected. I very much believe that this two-thirds-legislative matter in the school sector leads to rigidity and not stability, that it is precisely for this reason that school reform can only take place on an ideological level, and that precisely for this reason, in the development of a common school – I mean, a common place of learning – we have not yet come out with an individual promotion of all children according to their best possibilities beyond the school trial stage. There is also a very up-to-date occasion for this, namely the forthcoming integration in the field of secondary school level I. Here, the absurdity of our school system only becomes clear by the fact that at the very time when segmentation begins, now comes – under quotation marks – a "art-ish element" that no longer wants to fit into the system. This makes it so difficult for you to stand for integration as a human right. Minister of Education! I have personally been deeply affected by the fact that you do not see integration as human rights, but as a teaching necessity. We Liberals naturally see this differently. Integration is a human right for us, and integration is not shared for us. We will be very careful to ensure that integration is watered down, that integration is carried out only as far as possible and therefore all possible excuses, whether in organizational or in other areas, door and gate, are opened. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let me now make one last point of criticism in connection with the permeability of our school system. Mr Höchtl meant: No conclusion without connection! – Unfortunately, we are still far away. I believe that the dual training system is particularly affected by the present impermeability of the dual training system - this dual training system, which has so far been a guarantee that we have skilled workers at our disposal to a sufficient extent and that youth unemployment has been stopped. I understand that the willingness of the economy to train apprentices is dwindling. I also understand that the interest of apprentices is waning because permeability has not yet been given to the desirable degree. However, it simply must not remain in pure declarations of intent and in advertising campaigns such as "Careers by Teaching". But the problem is not the level of apprentice compensation. Mr Dolinschek, the last time we have said that it is possible to guarantee the adjustment of the compensation for apprentices. That's a populist statement. I know that the proportion of the voters of the liberals among the apprentices is good. Only apprenticeships will certainly not do this. We have a complex problem, and we need to rethink. The keyword is flexibilization! However, this is independent of the fact that we need, of course, a reorganisation of teaching professions and the improvement of the training of teachers and teachers. I believe that the problem of rigid structures throughout the school sector, especially in the vocational education sector, is a reason for the current situation. That is why we need a flexibilization of time. I believe that I will agree with the colleagues of the ÖVP that it makes sense for vocational schooling to be more flexible within the overall period of time, that it makes sense to use industry-specific rules so that it is not possible to do everything over a comb, that it does not make sense to define the vocational schooling time for the retailer for as long as for highly-technized professions, that a cook may need a different period in the field of schooling than a waiter, but that we, above all, will also need a more individual regulation with regard to the duration of the vocational schooling between teachers and apprentices in order to enable these different degrees. This requires a social and salary decoupling of school and practical training in the workplace. I think while the apprentice is in school, he also has to be treated from the law side like a student. While the apprentice is in school, he is a student, he is insured with his parents, and only in this way can more flexibility be achieved in this field. – Of course, we also need to restructure the vocational schooling material, create modules in order to enable different degrees in the end. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I believe that there has been an increase in awareness over the last few years. They have certainly also helped to ensure that education is no longer measured by the ability to reproduce facts, but that it is about social skills, key qualifications and also a lifelong learning process. School and education should not just be discussed in the context of consolidation measures. There is still more to be done in terms of quality improvement, internal reforms must be done, and progress must be made in particular. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! It will probably be necessary to look further beyond the ideological edge of the plate in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28813	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e28834	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should first of all like to refer to the comments made by Mr Krüger, because he has also dealt with education issues. You obviously have problems to deal with what is happening in Austria, because you are forced to go back 20 or more years and build up some phantoms that may have died long ago. We can be happy if you have no other accusation against social democracy than a conversation from the Kreisky era, which anyone has once led. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: With a Stasi officer!]] There we can really congratulate ourselves, and we do not need to be afraid of such accusations. But if you think, in the opposite way, that we should only impart knowledge in school politics – you have expressed this by accusing us of trying to immigrate the school, it would be tried to convey values at school, and you would not only be limited to knowledge at school – then I must tell you, colleague Krüger: [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I have quoted literally!]] You'd rather stick to cultural policy. First, read the principle section for Austrian education, and consider what school is for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] You know that. Young people should be trained into healthy, labour-intensive, committed and responsible members of society and citizens of the democratic and federal Republic of Austria. [[Calls and countercalls to the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] They are to be led to independent judgment, to social understanding, to political and worldly thinking towards others, and to be able to take part in the economic and cultural life of Austria, Europe and the world. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is undisputed, Mr. Cot!]] Mr Krüger! There you can't make yourself and say that the schools should be quite limited to imparting knowledge! Of course, the school has the task of imparting values to young people, and they are defined here. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I know the Constitution better than you do, Mr. Colleague.]] We will also insist on this, and I ask you not to raise such accusations any more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: She has to guide her to also spread the values!]] If we talk about the budget today, I say: We could also imagine a teaching budget which, as in recent years, has an increase of 3 to 5 percent, rather than maintaining the state of the previous year. But there are only two possibilities in the current budgetary situation: either to lament and to delegate how many speakers of the opposition have practised for days, or to make the most of this situation with a course of just saving and saving through reforms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, with this in mind, the Members of my group and also of the coalition partner, who will speak on the chapter on education today, will prove to you in this debate that we want to free and modernise the Austrian school at a time of saving outdated structures, from structures that have long been considered untouchable as long as we could afford them. Saving through reforms is called the foreign exchange, and no one needs to be afraid of the quality of the Austrian school in this situation. [[Abg. May. We have been trying to do this for a long time, Mr Niederweiser. But progress is not yet recognizable!]] – Progress is recognizable, and you will hear very clearly what we are planning in the following statements. I ask you to listen once. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I have three children in school! I see it every day that there is no progress!]] However, I would like to start with a few facts that generally deserve a better awareness. First to the relationship between teachers and students and to how it has developed over the last 20 years. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] In the school year 1970/71 – Mr Schweitzer, you could still learn something, because you certainly don't know this graphics yet – in compulsory schools about 21 students per teacher, and we had in the school year 1994/95 – these are the last complete numbers – 9.2 students per teacher, in the gymnasia it was about 15, now it's about nine, and in total it was about 18, now it's about ten students per teacher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] That means that this alone is a very significant improvement in the school policy situation over the past 25 years. But that's not enough for us. That's what I'm saying quite openly. New tasks must therefore be solved, new rules must be adopted. What we need to do in the future is to achieve the appropriate means through a more efficient use of the money for new tasks in education policy. This structural package is the starting point for the process of reorientation. I call a number of important future fields of education policy for the Social Democrats, which we want to achieve together in the coming years in this coalition. First of all, there is the training of skilled workers. A number of things have already been said about them in the Social Chapter. I'm just saying so much: A higher proportion of the public sector will also be necessary, combined with the system of integrated vocational training, in which the firm, vocational school, vocational secondary and higher education and adult education will be included and where, ultimately, there will also be a career matura. As a second question of lifelong learning, we have to solve the problems of extending schools to homes of learning, in which much is offered not only in the day, but also in the evening in the field of adult education. We certainly need real integration measures – I am right in giving you, colleague Schaffenrath – which is the continuation of integration in the middle-level area. But I am also sure that what will then be sent to Parliament at the end of the review process, namely this School Organisation Act Novelle, will be a change in which we will be able to reach a common decision, because we also attach great importance to the fact that integration is indivisible. It is not divisible between primary school and AHS, nor must it stop with the eighth level. We are of course in favour of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] However, the funds need not only be more efficient, but also more justly distributed. This new Wifo study on the redistribution by public budget policies has shown one thing: An average agricultural household receives the most from the State as a transfer service, followed by a commercial household, the liberals, the workers and the employees. In 1991, the top third of the income pyramid accounted for around 47 percent of public expenditure for school, about 37 percent for the middle and only 16 percent for the lower incomes. And the main reason for this distribution is the different educational participation of children depending on the level of income. That's the finding. Now the question is: What are the causes of this? . We must recognise that there are essentially three reasons for this. The first is that the allocation of educational paths takes place too early, with the tenth year of life and that the alternative can only be the common middle level. Secondly, crossings and bridges are not yet sufficiently available, and thirdly, there is still need for improvements in what the resurgence of education comes at a later date, namely as an adult. First of all, I would like to call a study by Fritz Bauer, Ortwin Wingert and Wolf Schlöglmann, which, because of an analysis of the student flows, results in the conclusion that the primary school is actually the total school in the country and that the AHS sub-level is already a common school in urban centres. What must be done in the near future is to recognise that in the legal framework, with the practice overtaking us for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] It was about efficiency and justice. This leads me to another area of reform, namely that of performance assessment. In other words, efficiency also means dealing with the time of young people. And this also means that we need to reform the rules for the repetition of school levels. I would like to give you a very concrete example of how you can derive the situation, namely the example of our own work as Members of Parliament here in the House. We have, for example, in the Committee on Education, in this year's Landeslehrer Service Law, the integration of the disabled, the reform of the ninth level and, if possible, the first steps towards a curriculum reform with a more professional orientation. This is the task we have set ourselves for this day. Let us assume that everything succeeds, only the reform of the polytechnic course is progressing, unfortunately it is not possible, we do not make a decision. President Fischer then said to us: I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, you have not done an important task, not enough, everything back to the start, all the laws from the beginning, from the committee to the plenary! By this one sees how absurd this system is; Because of a single unsolved task, everything else has to be done again! But what we consider absurd for our work is reality in school in the form of this assessment and repetition system. We see from this that school does not regard learning as a process of progress, in which many steps have to be taken, but rather as a sort of rally, as a stage race. Those who have not reached this stage in the evening fly out of the race, and that is in most cases also what actually happens after a repeat. This picture simply displeases many who think pedagogically, and I am very confident that in the next few months, especially after the announcements made by Mrs Minister, we will come up with solutions that we have had for years – in vain. One task of the next time is also to create work for those who are trained for pedagogical professions. The age structure of teachers, which I could explain in detail, shows that there will be little new jobs in the next five to eight years, but that we will again have an increased need for teachers in about eight to nine years. What can be done in this situation? Firstly, there is a need to improve the opportunities for teachers in the area of the EU by also recognizing their training across Europe. Negotiations are still to be held in this respect. Secondly, we must develop alternative forms of working time or allow those who want teachers and who have proposed their professional representations, and thirdly, we must simply warn against taking a course of training, of which 95 percent must be said: We are sorry, but in the next five to eight years there will be no work for you. On this occasion, however, I would also like to follow what Mr Höchtl has already said, thanks to teachers and their professional representations for their great understanding of the package of consolidation. It is not natural for a professional group to say in this way and with so much understanding: Yes, we carry these things! – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I want to cut a few more things in the keywords. The rise on the education route essentially means that we have to take into account new forms of communication that enable direct communication between teachers and students or adults, depending on who takes advantage of education. This will be one of the learning technologies of the future, and we have a lot to do there. In addition, I would like to quote briefly Scholz, who yesterday, in an issue which seems to me to have pointed out the necessary areas of reform, saying: "The need for a more gentle education of children in the public school, a more playful foreign language promotion..., an earlier acquisition of a second living foreign language, a rational design of the student streams in the field of middle-level, a reform of notification... and the development of gift-enhancing elements...." – He has summarized what our next tasks will be. The programme we have to do shows that it is not just about saving but about developing the school. As such a general programme for further development could look like, let me end by quoting Helmut Becker, one of the largest of European education sciences. He asks: "What qualities does man need today to be educated? And he answered: "I think four qualities are urgent: Reliability, mobility, world understanding and solidarity". – And I add: Confidence and optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29016	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29038	Good morning, Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Krügersche Kulturkampf in the early morning is already a proper shock to the fast stomach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] I must say that when Mr Krüger mentions Antonio Gramsci, it is difficult to digest, but please! He must do his floating exercises on the dry dock for the party president so that he is satisfied. It is strange when Mr Krüger comes out and says that the Minister of Education has already been undermined by the left in all the educational institutions in the ministry. It's a bit strong tobak, but please. Although Mr Krüger is doing some shade boxes against the non-present Minister Scholten, this is his case, but it does not help us much much further. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I can't do it for that!]] Mr. Krüger, you're detracting from this... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you have to say?]] Do you always talk about the side? You can get out, Mr Schweitzer, and make your own speech. Mr Krüger said that in the cultural question - he quoted Mr Primetzhofer - with his FPÖ-Oberösterreich over the last few weeks, he had to put a sensitive defeat on the fact that the FPÖ-Oberösterreich was condemned for gross remorse. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The SPÖ!]] No, the FPÖ, the Freedom Party, because of bad remorse to the very association that he has already accused today of being somehow terroristally or similarly knitted. I do not think that it is possible to present the accusations for which we have been condemned for evil renunciation in another garment again. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I'm not condemned for evil renunciation!]] Mr Krüger! But it's FPÖ. They are part of the FPÖ-Oberösterreich, I suppose that will still be the case. It cannot be assumed that you bring a variation of the identity in a new garment over and over again. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What's wrong with what I said?]] For example, the accusation of "communist undermigration" and "terrorism" and "TATblatt scene"! That was all the case, because of which the FPÖ-Oberösterreich has been sentenced for evil remorse, Mr Krüger! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is that true with the "TAT leaf" or not?]] There is a condemnation of evil remorse in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is it true that the "TATblatt" is being driven through the "Channel Schwerberg"?]] I don't care if there's the "TAT leaf" there or not. You have made quite specific accusations in this regard to a cultural institution in Upper Austria, and for this you or the FPÖ-Oberösterreich have been sentenced to correct this, because of gross remorse. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's not true!]] But I do not really want to spread here to the FPÖ's cultural struggle. I don't think that's worth the subject. I think it's about teaching and art. Of course, it is significant how seriously you take the question of education and education, if you deal with this subject only with a few small comments and – thank God no longer says about it – you have to say that – you are actually only going to do so in this rather monotonous debate about the cultural struggle in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You can't do it right!]] I would like to comment on the subject of education, because it is what deserves attention. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Art not?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, of course! If you deal with her, then also the art deserves attention, but you must actually deal with it. The Swedish school researcher Mats Ekholm, in the debate on the means of managing a system of education, has, after many years of research, found that it is not really so important to use the control system to regulate the education sector. He says: More decisive over the decades is what actually happens in schools, the role of the teacher is crucial, and the view of teacher work is crucial. I do not fully share this view, but believe that the debate on the role of the teacher is indeed crucial. But if we really think that is essential, I must say that in recent years a number of negative events have occurred, which will not help to increase the quality of education in Austria. I'm not throwing this before you, Mrs. Minister. But the way in which the debate on teachers, on the privileges of teachers, on the quality of school education in Austria was held in the public, including by the political parties, and also the way in which this was associated with a debate on financial restrictions, which were necessary or actually they were, indicates that in these years, like the teachers' union and other associations, we actually have to deal with a massive climate deterioration, which will be felt in school lessons. It cannot be said, however, that there is no longer any question of reforming the education system in Austria, but of all the blame for what is bad in education, a group, and those who are essentially embodying education, namely teachers. Nor can it be, Mrs Minister, that, for example, you are outlining the debate on the Teacher's Mission to the Trade Union and that the trade union is holding this debate on the Teacher's Guide completely inadequate and incapable of organizing it in terms of content. It operates it in a way that it will not actually reach the teachers, but as it is, in my opinion, best suited to the fact that the teachers' union with a few pages will be able to adorn paper. However, this is not an essential contribution to a new teacher's guide. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mrs. Minister! Another point in addition to this badly started debate on the Teachers' Guide is the schoolbook issue. What have we not discussed in recent years about the schoolbook, about improvements in school books, about savings in school books! But essentially nothing has gone on – except a bad self-retaining regime. This is the only thing we have achieved so far: a poor system of self retention, which is bureaucratic, which is associated with a certain administrative burden and which does not include an improvement in the quality of the school books. There's a very concrete accusation, Mrs. Minister: In the polytechnic courses one still has to work with decades-old schoolbooks, because obviously the reform of the polytechnic, which has always been an educational necessity, has not taken a step forward for years or decades. [[Abg. Schaffenrath:... but adopted!]] That is why decades-old schoolbooks must be used there, which the Catholic family association in its criticism in fact calls completely inadequate and antique. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Next point: Mrs. Minister! In my view, in a contribution to the magazine "NEWS" last year, they rightly asked whether the chairmen of examination committees should ask for fees for the fact that they are present in these examinations, i.e. they should receive exam fees. And what are you doing out of this debate this year? – In the same magazine, you will again be quoted with a statement on exam fees, in the form, if I have understood the right to question the overall exam fees and exams for teachers who, for example, carry out matura exams. This is, of course, not the right way to continue the debate on this issue. How can one hope, in fact, to achieve motivation among teachers regarding a question in which reform in the original sense would be called upon, Mrs Minister? Next point: the foreign language offensive at schools. Of course, it is not only about this one hour English or the fact that in the lower-level Latin actually has the same importance as English. It's not just about it! It is also about, Mrs Minister – and this has happened in part before your term of office – that, for example, the opening figures, the division numbers for foreign language teaching have been changed in such a way that foreign language teaching, unlike the early 1990s or the 1980s, can only take place in large groups and no longer in small groups where it is actually possible to learn foreign languages in such a way that they can also be spoken. It is also no longer mentioned, which is even more essential and quite a concern on your part, that speaking in foreign languages could and should be carried more into the public schools. That's all out of the question. It is now again taking place in large groups of foreign languages, the foreign languages have fewer hours, and this is, of course, a qualitative deterioration in foreign language teaching. This is not progress, it is clearly a step back, Mrs Minister! If you say again and again: All of this is half as bad as it is, and this can be done autonomously!, then it must be borne in mind that, by restricting quotas for schools, the possibility of actually countering them has, of course, been reduced accordingly. Next: Teacher unemployment. I think that the most serious point is the climate in schools and the education sector in general, and I believe that the answers from the government parties are completely inadequate. No matter whether it is 7 000 unemployed teachers this year or "only" 1 000 or 2 000 teachers, the fact is that the answers are missing! For example, the answers could be an extension of adult education. Unfortunately, it does not take place, but it is this year – and I will come back to it later – that there is at most a compensation for what has been born in the last few years. The answers could also be to consider modern working time concepts. The fact that this does not happen is not necessarily alone Your fault, this is also a matter for the trade union. But I mean, in the fight against teacher unemployment, just as in the fight against unemployment in general, the government coalition has not yet come to mind, and this will not exactly improve the climate in schools – which I have tried to describe as essential for the development of education to take place. Next point – something positive, Mrs. Minister! –: I think it is positive that for the first time you have addressed the question of sitting, which was a red cloth for conservative school politics! It was not allowed to touch it so far. They have addressed it; I think it is positive, even if it is still insufficient. The fact is: We are spending billions on sitting down, we are spending billions on compensating for the measures against seats, and the fact is that this is not an issue in all discussions on savings in education. There is no need to save, although it is an important point. You have now addressed this for the first time and some other education politicians. This is progress, even if it is still far too far. This question should be much stronger and much more clearly at the centre, because it also indicates a huge deficit in the field of education which we have to deal with. This is, of course, closely related to the note system. Then come again the blockades of the conservatives. In the meantime, even in Switzerland there can be a serious discussion about this, Mrs Minister, and serious school reform attempts are being made in Switzerland, which are not only about the abolition of the system of numerical notation, but also about very modern concepts of self-evaluation! I find this to be phenomenal, that this comes from Switzerland, while in Austria this debate cannot even be held, because in some conservative education politicians, all the scrambles would be snapped down immediately. Mrs. Minister! Be courageous on this question too! Go a new way, and give a person as consistent and committed as Mr Vielinger the opportunity to develop his proposals for reform in the field of emergency. That's positive, and I think it could only bring us on. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! In this debate about the reform of schools over the last few weeks, you have talked about the fact that school should be understood and understood as a company in the future. I do not share this point of view, Mrs Minister. I think it is an extremely problematic position because it is based on the idea that the education sector can be organised in a market-like manner. If you go this way, Mrs Minister, and if you think it is right to organize the education sector in this way, you must also explicitly see that in such a market-like organization of the education sector – because the market demands it – there must be better and worse providers – that is the requirement of a market. A market that, as it were, would have the same conditions for all – equally good schools, equally good teachers – would not work. The market requires better and worse. I think this is an extremely problematic concept for education. I do not think that is a step in the right direction. I also do not think that what has been understood and suggested so far is a step in a direction that makes sense. They have presented only a few aspects, for example, that advertising should be allowed to the schools and in school books. That seemed to be an important point to you so far. I think you should seriously think about whether this is really a good and a right step, for example, when you know that in Sweden school books are already 50 percent – 50 percent! – consist of paid involvements of advertisers. Well, you can think, what does that do? Students are also otherwise confronted with advertising, and they should learn to deal with it. They should learn to resist it. – But, please, where does this dispute take place? Where do students in schools actually learn to resist these influences? I'll give you an example, Mrs. Minister, it's in the newspapers today. This has nothing to do with advertising, but very probably with influence in schools. For years, the influence of students by teachers who belong to a Christian-fundamentalist sect – Jedidja – has been taking place in an Upper Austrian school, in Aschach an der Donau. And although the parents and the children have been trying to change this situation for years, neither the teacher nor the parents, nor the school supervisor, have been able so far to a Christian-fundamentalist sect, which in a large way frightens children by telling them that the Teuferl and the demons are sitting in the class to actually become lord. – These are the realities that we have to deal with at Austrian schools in certain situations! But on the other hand, you go here and say that advertising will make the students and the parents do – especially the students. I think you are exploring the realities in schools. I do not want to generalise this example of the Aschach school now, I just point out that it is obviously not possible, even after a multi-year discussion for dedicated parents, to put off this ghost of magic at an Austrian school somehow. The school supervision has put its head in the sand and became active only after it was presented several times in the media, and probably only against individual teachers, while the group that is active in some schools in Upper Austria has so far remained unblemished. I just mean that it is a good proof that the subject of advertising at schools – influence of students in a more general sense – should be taken a little more seriously and not just reduced to the question that this might make a few hundred thousand schilling more available to schools and education policy. On the one hand, I think it is an interesting aspect of the whole debate on savings in the public sector, that, although it is said that we have no money, we are not getting any more money, we can take too little tax, we can no longer afford it, but on the other hand, we know very well where the money would be to get: that is to say, for companies that then make the money available to schools or other interesting advertisers via advertising, via sponsoring and similar. I think this is the wrong way, Mrs Minister, not just in education policy. The funds for public education – if they are available – should be made available and spent in a different way. Mrs Schaffenrath! I have not listened to you all the time, but I think that you have probably repeated in connection with education one of your demands, which I also think is essential, that at last an educational report should be drawn up, an annual or every two years recurring periodic educational report, which gives us information on how resources are actually used in the education sector: what they are used for and for which sub-areas. I therefore think this is essential and extremely important, because, of course, we need to acquire decisive knowledge of the financial flows in this education sector not only because of the savings in the education sector, but also because of the urgent changes to be made in the education sector, if we want to do so. Just a few examples of this: The redistribution of educational resources will also be necessary, among other things, because lifelong learning, which we are celebrating this year, will become increasingly important. Therefore, resources must be redistributed by education in the secondary education sector, in the field of out-of-school or adult education. However, if this is the case that resources are being redistributed, then it is necessary to know as a basis and as a condition what these resources are currently used for. How, for example, are resources distributed between public schools and private schools within the field of education? How are the funds allocated between private schools, which are religiously oriented, and private schools which are not religiously oriented? In the private schools, which are not religiously oriented, how are funds divided between the so-called recognized schools – such as the Waldorf schools – and the alternative schools? And here, Mrs Minister, one thing is already apparent, namely that these funds are very unevenly distributed! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that the Confessional Schools have an extremely good budget and an extremely good support from the Federal Government and various other public authorities and that there are also certain obligations for this, I know. Nevertheless: The equipment is extremely good. When we look at the other private schools, we note that, for example, recognized pedagogical concepts such as the Waldorf schools are also relatively well equipped, while alternative schools are poorly equipped by your ministry in the narrower sense and, in comparison to the Waldorf schools, for example, only one fifth to one sixth of the resources per student as they receive the Waldorf schools, let alone from the religiously oriented schools! I think it would be necessary, in order to reorientation, to define this assessment of resources in order to actually have the appropriate basis in an annual or every two years educational report to judge it. One more point: Integration. I do not want to comment in detail now. However, I believe that the draft which you, Mrs Minister, are currently acting as a ministerial draft is a bad draft, because it reduces integration. Integration is an indivisible human right, which must not be restricted even by budgetary restrictions, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the conclusion. I'm just doing it and I'm just giving back what the education scientist and educational expert Bernhard Rathmayer called for in 1994 in a "NEWS" interview in which he said what was necessary so that the school did not work together as in the GDR. In spite of this increase, I think it is quite possible that, in a few years' time, because of the lack of allocation of resources for the education sector, for support in the education sector, for reform in the education sector, it will actually be so that public education is only the basic provision for those who cannot afford to attend a private school. And we should not take this development in Austria. I therefore think it necessary to take this criticism seriously. I think it is necessary to debate this and to ask that the biggest brake in the field of education and training, namely the two-thirds majority needed to change something in the school sector, will finally be concluded. I also think it is necessary, Mrs Minister, that a broad debate on school autonomy – including the limits of school autonomy – be held at last. There are also limits to school autonomy, but we have to go this way towards school autonomy, and we should not just talk about it! I think it is necessary that a school reform commission and an Idea exchange be set up again, namely an Idea exchange, in which teachers, interested parents and all those who want to participate in school reform and education policy, and from which they can get their basics, in which, so to speak, the experiences of school reforms can be gathered and from which one can serve. However, I also think it is necessary to install a school reform committee so that the debate on school and education policy in this country can actually be carried on again. At the very last conclusion: Mrs. Minister! They have been published in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) of 21. April 1996 in an article entitled "Pop music instead of gymnastic mief" on the topic of gymnastics, which demands – and is also very enthusiastic about it – that at last some fresh wind should enter the gyms. They meant: "The technical equipment for this" that music can take place in gymnastics, "are available. But one thing is important to me: The school cannot cope with all the shortcomings in society. '" "However, she also finds the idea of gymnasiums with music,super. I'm going to encourage this right away for teacher education. I think music gymnastics in school is more important than performance sports." [[The speaker keeps the newspaper article up to date.]] There are then some pictures showing what such a gymnastics might look like. When these pictures saw teachers – at least some of them told me – they only marveled at what equipment is available in the gyms, not in the gyms, but in these gyms. Mrs. Minister! Teachers running gymnastics at schools would wish that as many medical balls as they are shown in the gymnastics on these pictures would be present in public schools. You would also like to see some others, Mrs Minister, with regard to equipment for gymnastics. I think it is important that school and education are not too short. And I would like you to show a little more courage to put up with your very greedy colleague in the government, the Minister of Finance, who does not like to give this money out of hand. For education in this country has deserved to be well equipped with resources, but not to starve in a savings package or in several savings packages!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29261	Ladies and gentlemen! I made a statement both at the beginning of yesterday's meeting and at the beginning of today's meeting of a resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, according to which Federal Minister Dr. Scholten is represented in his capacity as Minister of Science, Research and Art by Federal Minister Dr. Michalek. Since Mr Scholten has now decided to attend the meeting, I am not going to solve the question of whether the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic should be revitalized before the end of this representation or whether it has actually ended by the Federal Minister taking up his duties again. I don't think we have to analyze this for long. I consider this an act of the Court. I now give the floor to Mr Franz Morakdas.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29291	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger spoke about the BSA and said that the BSA was the artist's acceptance. I'm not here to defend the BSA. I was there once, and I think I've got four people talking. So if you think you're going to accept the artist there, I wouldn't say that. But one thing I must admit: At least you don't think of the artists as you do of the liberals, that they will then be on a poster the next day, in a way that artists strongly reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let's finish this hack. The good news: The budget – all budgets in the field of culture – could be kept, both in the chapter Exterior and in the Chapter on Education and Cultural Affairs and in Chapters 13 – Art – and 71 – Federal Theatre. That's something positive! As a signal, this means that Austria has a clear, positive sign in the areas where it has a great tradition and where we should prove something for the future: in other words, in the tradition of our cultural work and also in the investment in contemporary cultural work into the future. And it is more than that when considering the country's budgetary situation, considering the structural adjustments and consolidation measures. The investment in culture is quite anticyclic, and it is a true commitment of this state to the willingness to invest in culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whether these are investments in the field of construction, such as the New York Cultural Institute, the Museum Square, the Leopold Foundation, the Ludwig Collection, the Museum of Modern Art, the Technical Museum, the Albertina Collection, the Albertina, the Federal Government has decided to assign modernity its place in the center of this city. What I find very poetic is the comparison of the beginning of the 20th century. ==References====External links== ==References== I think this is a wonderful approach, it is also a positive confession. The fact that in a country where one knows that it likes to look hopefully into the past, is associated with some queerels and problems is obvious, because otherwise we would not be the Austrians we are. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's right!]] It is also to be praised that, in the field of education and cultural affairs, as well as in the area of monument protection and museums, the 1994 budget approaches were restored after the 1995 invasion was really worrying. In the Federal Museums, important exhibitions can be held again – I think of the exhibition "1000 Years of Music" and the Historism Exhibition – but also in the National Library, where real fire at Dach is – the newspaper stock is decaying – a lot happens. A microfilm action is planned there, the conversion of existing note catalogues is being progressed, and the public availability of stocks is forced by new digitalized publications. To the New York Cultural Institute, I would like to say a few words: If you remember, before the election there have been comments like: What do we need, of foreign jobs, what do we need? These signs came from a side from which one is actually not accustomed. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] That the competent minister of art – now I quote from the "standard" – meant to the architect Raimund Abraham that he had landed at the wrong ministry, because by another, namely his, this would have been built for a long time, and that, after the then Minister of Finance has just removed the means, this speaks less for a friendly handling of the subject of art, for understanding the need in the field of investment art than for its instrumentalization by you, Mr. Minister. That means as much as: Art is art, and art is free, only the artists can always be told where they get the coal. Nevertheless, there was – and that is not enough to appreciate – a victory of reason: New York will be built. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the field of music education, a minister manages the resort that comes from a federal country where there is a very large musical school tradition: Vorarlberg is an absolute top value in the Austrian landscape with a music school density of 3.6 per 100 inhabitants. In Vienna, this density – representing Vorarlberg with 3.6 percent – is 0.3 percent, and this is the music city. Here I assume that a firm will must be required from the discussion to the deed, i.e. focus on music in school, anchoring the field of musical education in the curriculum of pedagogical academies. There is a project according to the regional music tradition "Without grades" or "indoor", i.e. children, highly talented children, go to school and music for children. Minister Scholten! On this subject, you said at the last plenary session on 28 November. February, where I was not there – I quote –: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what he trusted!]] "In the past year, this discussion has already become virulent, conspicuous and present until my last day as Minister of Education, the argument of the ÖVP was about as follows: The music universities are great – I am now exaggerating linguistically” – that's your diction – "if only these damn schools would finally do something! – It didn’t even take a week when I changed from the Minister of Education to the Minister of Science, and at one time this turned out to be the other, and they said: So these schools do great work if only this damn college would finally be promoted more!" I would like to give you some advice. You have commissioned studies in this respect, you have also published them. One is called "The musical training of students at the music schools in Vienna, Salzburg and Graz", and the other is called "The Austrian music universities from the point of view of students, graduates and experts". Minister! If you've read those, then we're where you said. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: We are there!]] Save us with the "language exaggerations" because reality is bad enough. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The problem arises when it comes to the realization – I mean that now unpolemically: How do we promote the education of musicians, creative education, or in an area of three or four years or more? I believe that it is not enough that this problem has been identified in this study, but that we should also do something about it. That means you should put a focus here. I am very grateful to Mrs Gehrer for the fact that a start is being made on this, that is to say in the field of school. ==References====External links== Mr Janen, Minister, you spoke about more resources for decentralised cultural initiatives. You have said, as I have pointed out in the Committee, in your wonderfully evocative way, that 4 per cent will get more. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who you don't have, unfortunately!]] Imagine, that's a little less than Peter Stein gets for his retouchs in a translation that Schlegel – Tieck got for him. These are the amounts that we're dealing with here. In contrast, Salzburg has had 61.8 million Schilling in 1994 and 1995 with a success of 56.7 million, with 76.3 planned for 1996 and 1997. I give them that heartily, it's a lot going off there, that's not a question. Only, this is measured by the previous German share, in relation to the area of decentralised cultural initiatives, where you wanted to focus before the election – we were of the opinion that something should happen – at least 30 percent. On the topic of art curators and visual arts: At the beginning of his term of office in Austria – I quote – the curator Markus Brüderlin: "It must be clear that Austrian art is not taken seriously to the extent that there is no functioning, self-sustaining art company with a market suitable for the size of the country and an independent, professional interpretation and evaluation culture that helps the public with quality." The events he has cared for in the art room are quite commendable, I think that is all right. However, whether this creates a market can be doubted. However, the gallery promotion you have just introduced speaks another language. That is, a gallery must be promoted so that it can survive in this market, which, according to Markus Brüderlin, obviously is not there. In my conversations – that is what I would like to tell you as an incentive – with various gallerists – which you also have to maintain, that is also to say, that is all right – I have experienced quite controversial opinions on this: On the one hand, the question arises whether gallerists should no longer be promoted by purchases or, on the other hand, through concrete educational work of the gallerists they have to do for schools. The students get to know the galleries, the gallerists get to know their potential future buyers, and this measure would reduce a threshold anxiety, and the visit to the gallery would be experienced as a matter of life. Now the main point – we have already heard about it today, I just want to sum up once more – is about this art promotion advisory board. It is the only advisory board whose composition and annual meeting is mandatory by the legislator. Here, sums of between 80 and 100 million Schilling are to be advised, in relation to 70 to 30 federal states or 15 to 85 their ministry to the Ministry of Gehrer, i.e. monument protection and art promotion. In contrast to your reply to the request made by the Liberals to you, this Advisory Council was not convened in 1991. In 1992 and 1993, he was convened to the meetings, but was unable to act because he did not fulfil the number of participants laid down by law. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: But I really can't do that!]] However, the Minister has not made any effort to bring about decisive meetings for the two years. At the next decision-making meeting, the head of the section had the minutes of the non-decided meeting 1993 recognized in 1994. But now it really comes: The term of residence of the previous Advisory Council was 1992, 1993 and 1994, and from 1995 a new advisory board was to be set up. A completely incorrect protocol from 1994 is available to me, and Mr Temnitschka, since my criticism of this Protocol, has refused to go out the following protocols or to make them accessible to the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But he's not a democrat!]] In addition, according to the head of the section Temnitschka, the advisory board is on 20 June. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== It seems to me that the President of the National Council on the negotiations for this budget would call the National Council in the composition of before the election. So that can't be it. I could imagine, however, that these fees, together with the ORF fees, are lifted, that slowly, but surely with this – how should I say? – chronic disregard for the law of the ORF’s margin for argumentation to keep this 100 million schilling in the same way increases. Mr Voggenhuber referred to the Council's inability to decide in 1992, as he was asked not before the allocation of funds, but about the allocation of funds, that the Minister would grant 100 million schillings for good. If I then look at this protocol and see that over a sum of 100 million schilling is decided at a time of, I think, 50 minutes, where nothing is actually rubbed out of crutches, then I slowly understand, but surely the line of argument of the ORF, who says: Let's make decent movies with that. Let us prove ourselves in a medium that this country can present modern and new far beyond its borders, namely in the field of TV and TV film. If one goes on to say that one insists that this must be the demanding, artisticly valuable, then I must tell you that this is a discussion that I would like to have. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is a breach of law, Mr. Morak!]] This is meant as a proposal. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: No, that is the breach of the law of the Minister with the Art Promotion Advisory Council!]] Nevertheless, I would like to say: In principle, the cultural budget to be decided on should be very positive in all areas, as it does not restrict itself in a very tense situation, but is anti-cyclically continuing the status quo of the financial resources. However, I must say to the responsible cultural intermediaries and cultural managers: There is no breathing break, but there has been time for them to put the necessary infrastructure measures – over a period of two years, this advantage is not to be underestimated. It would be desirable for them to accept this challenge, accept it joyfully, and master it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29453	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Preisinger. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29474	Mr President. My dear Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me a few more words about school, education and education. In the 1994 election campaign, Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has made the following statement appear throughout Austria – no one could have missed that –: Youth is our biggest capital. She deserves the best training. It was followed by the government statement Vrnitzky 1994: For the education sector, the government's view was that training was the best investment in the future. At the same time, he announced an educational offensive. Two years later, in the 1996 Government Declaration, we also heard beautiful words: The future of a country is youth, and the future of youth is its training. Any investment in training is also an investment in the future. Now you can say: A lot of beautiful words, words without content, but in itself these words are a matter of course. It's not supposed to be the other way around. Unfortunately, God's reality looks different. Instead of the constantly announced educational offensive, we are more or less incessant in an educational defense. In education, it must be saved, in education it is saved. This allows us to conclude that, according to our government, investment in youth, which is known to be our future, is not worth so much. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this, although the newly appointed woman minister of teaching has repeatedly clearly excluded further savings in the school system for upcoming savings packages. ==References====External links== 6. In 1995 it states: It won't be the next savings package. The impact of the current savings package would be considered carefully before further measures would be discussed. Lung, and it sounds almost like a bad joke, is the statement of the 18th century. June 1995 in the "Kurier": One thing she wants to exclude – the Federal Minister – for future savings packages, namely that teachers are saved. They have already paid several times, as officials, as teachers and many as parents in the cuts for the families. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the opposite of these beautiful words that has now occurred. And it's quite skillful. Teaching hours are separated from six hours per week. Simply so, without interfering with the curriculum reform announced at the same time by the Minister of Education, i.e. the framing of the curriculum. Teaching objects such as German, Mathematics, History and – not to mention – English are shortened. At the same time, a foreign language offensive is announced. Of course, schools within the framework of school autonomy – this is addressed to them – can decide for themselves, according to the Federal Minister, where to save which subjects are cut short. However, if the schools do not come to a green branch, then the Federal Minister already has a patent recipe at hand, and she already knows where to save, in general education, the subjects mentioned above. – A worrying process. However, it has also been done skillfully because, of course, the students and parents – as directly concerned – are told that the students are relieved, as Mrs Schaffenrath has already done. It is to be feared, however, that this replaceable deletion of lessons in the case of unaltered curriculums, teaching and learning goals will necessarily go naturally at the expense of the training time of each individual student and of each student. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You really want that, Mrs. Minister?]] In other words, the practice time is shifted into the private sector – in other words, home practice – where, of course, no teacher or teacher is at the side and helps if there are problems. And that in times when a billion schilling per year is already being implemented for follow-up education. The fact that this unsatisfying state will not change is probably obvious. Furthermore, the talk about the placement of key qualifications – a popular word – is needed, project lessons and modern teaching methods. However, experts in the scene must also be aware that all these teaching methods are very time-consuming and time-consuming and, therefore, can hardly be carried out anymore in the light of these cuts. Whether the step back to frontal education – the necessarily imposed frontal education – is actually compatible with the education and teaching of education, is put on the stand. But one more thing to reduce German education. It is worth accepting these things again. In view of the increasing languagelessness of our society, which no one seems to have been hidden anymore, the school today has more and more to be able to compensate for all the misdevelopments and shortcomings of our society. Schools and teachers are increasingly entrusted with social tasks, everything is delegated to the school. It can't be! Drug education, sex cases, children's behavioural disorders and so on – all this should be compensated in school. German teaching, Mrs. Federal Minister, not only belongs to the mediation of literary history and the paucing of grammar, but also to the mediating of communicative skills. And in this regard I wonder: What went wrong here? In the "Report" broadcast last week, it was said that there are about 200 000 illiterates in Austria. This is a state that seems incredible – and this despite schooling, despite the legally established schooling obligation. A shocking picture has been shown here, and I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, how such a thing can be possible at all. How can such a thing be possible, as our school system is supposed to take account of all levels of talent and inclinations? I ask you specifically: What's going to be You are doing so in the face of this shaking picture, which is ultimately a bankruptcy declaration of our school system? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But a few words on the situation of teachers, which is, of course, closely related to these measures. Here, too, you made statements, but your actions were contrary to them. They have repeatedly said that teachers are no longer to be saved. In the course of this new load package, it has been said that there will be no redundancies. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is relatively difficult to release pragmatized teachers. However, the reality for the young teachers, who are far from any Pragmatization, for whom there is no longer any need that is obviously no longer needed, looks rather sad. They are temporary contract teachers without any prospect of re-use. But the role of SPÖ is also interesting. After the initial agreement of Mr. Niederwieser, he was obviously re-buffed or revoked by the socialist teachers' union, after the SPÖ's teacher union on 25 July. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year we have announced that Mrs Bundesminister is being asked not to sell the financial cuts under a pedagogical cover. But how it all goes in further succession: You agree, and after all, everything is all right again. The joke of the day was delivered by the SPÖ City School Council President in Vienna, Dr Kurt Scholz, who complains of public complaints and criticises the situation that there will be 7 000 unemployed young teachers throughout the next ten years. In Vienna alone, 1 000 AHS young teachers are affected. It is, of course, this terrible, evil package of the evil government. However, he probably conceals two things, namely that his SPÖ and State Secretary Schlögl, together with the ÖVP, bear responsibility for this condition. But we already know the game of the opposition role, which we experience several times with the Vienna Social Democrats. It is Pharisee when he complains and criticises the situation, but on the other hand, on the other hand, it is clear to schools that young teachers must no longer be used, because they are likely to need the necessary hours for the pragmatized teachers. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have stated in the Committee that you have nothing to do with this, that the national school councils decide on their own responsibility. But you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are the superlative body, and you cannot escape from the responsibility for this misdeed and act as if you had nothing to do with it at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is clear that after the boom years in which a lot of teachers were needed, teachers are now of course at the best age, between 30 and 40, of which a maximum of 1 to 2 percent are retired each year. With the load package or savings package I, most of the overtime upholstery has already been converted into regular planning points. The load package II will melt away the last reserves and part of the free compartments this autumn. Another word about the high personnel costs that burden the budget: The government is pretending to be something completely new, as if it were a situation that we are now suddenly facing. After the lack of teachers in the 1970s, the reputation sounded: More young people should study for the Magisterium, we need teachers. It was already foreseeable, ladies and gentlemen, that teachers with growing age and increasing years of service would of course also become more expensive. For more than 20 years, ladies and gentlemen, the government had time to make structural changes and introduce a new system of performance-oriented and performance-oriented remuneration. But you've been watching for 20 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: The liberals were also in the government for three years!]] The development is not surprising. Each entrepreneur shall consider in good time when he or she shall adopt measures to ensure that the costs of such measures are incurred in the future, and shall take appropriate countermeasures. All that is now coming from the government are salary cuts and a reduction in general education. A word about life-long accompanying learning that you have spent as a vision of the future. However, in the Federal estimates, Mrs Federal Minister, there is no significant budgetary provision for this, and it also raises the question of what is actually with the national universities. If they have not fulfilled their tasks, do they no longer need them, will they be replaced, will they be used more strongly, have they in themselves not been able to fulfill their task? In the end, the promotion of adult education seems to be such that, for the first time, the remuneration of the evening school teachers for professionals is reduced and the trade union has been promised the legal anchoring of this school form in the School Education Act, which is now under review. The fact is that, more precisely, this measure, by means of certain stumbling blocks, which have been installed here, leads to a huge organisational extra burden and to a deterioration of the number of professionals who want to continue training and who are supposed to do so, according to your statements. Let's just stay at the evening schools. If you have carefully studied the daily newspaper "Die Presse" today, you will find an interesting contribution that has also been critically received by the Court of Auditors in 1994. These are so-called leisure pedagogues – I am formulating salopp; they mean members of the Council of Town Schools and ministerial officials who are teaching evening schools on the basis of permanent contracts and who, as they have unlimited contracts, have to keep more hours due to the measures now being taken, which in turn will make young teachers unemployed or result in a deterioration for them. As they are mostly very high levels of salary, it is clear that their payment is very expensive, and they often have to be supplied for hours because they are on the go. It is also – and the Court of Auditors has clearly stated this – a kind of inconsistency if officials from the superintendents can be provided with hours at a school because the question of which director would reject it and move the grudge of a superior. There is the Vocational Education Institute, and here too there are plenty of ministerial councils and ministerial officials of your ministry, Mrs. Minister, who hold seminars and trainings in the morning service, and who – this is the curious thing – are paid for it, although they do it in their service time. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That can only be a mistake, there is no such thing!]] Unfortunately, this is not God's error, but that is reality. It is not saved "top", it is not saved where the largest back cover is by lobbies, but it is saved "under" among the young teachers who obviously cannot judge it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This has been maintained?]] This has been maintained. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That can't be true!]] That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: May I invite you to a coffee so you can talk better?]] In the field of teacher training there is also an interesting detail that I do not want to keep away from the House. Of course, teachers must also train themselves, so should be and is good. To this end, there is the Educational Institute of the Federal Government. There is no doubt that, in a more detailed study, there are many interesting and important seminars that are offered there. However, it is striking that a staff member of this institute, responsible for the design of the seminar and responsible for the entire programme in this adult education, offers a certain Mr. Stanzel, several seminars himself, which he obviously tailors according to his own inclinations and then offers in this form. He also organizes them himself and is paid for them in addition. It's a pretty side-by-side income. What's that? What is there for teachers to learn so that they can pass it on to the students? – I quote: "They don't know what they're doing. – About the idealistically motivated equipment in the school." A seminar held by Mr Stanzel. Or: "Experience Summer Workshop: Creative solutions in organisations". – It’s about putting out your own room in networked systems. Perhaps Mr Stanzel could explain what that means. But it is also interesting to see a seminar that will be held in the near future, with the interesting title "Sandy Consolation. – Late capitalism and Aquarius age". Organizer: Teacher Andreas Stanzel. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting what means of taxation are spent on this and what nice secondary income someone is obviously providing. A special pikanery can still be found in this program, and golf courses are also offered – almost as a teacher training. The teacher of today must be able to play golf, which is part of it. [[Call to the Freeman: You must become a teacher!]] Three golf courses are offered: a sniffer course, a beginner course and an advanced course. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There are too few courses for the treatment of the disabled!]] I can't find that. Bad tongues may, of course, claim that these courses are necessary because they are a springboard for a career because they are a prerequisite to possibly make a career in the SPÖ. It is known that our wife, Federal Chancellor, is an enthusiastic golfer. A springboard for the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] No, Bungee-Jumping is not offered, Mrs Colleague, but golf games because this is very much in demand in the SPÖ. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] As you know, there is a service arrangement of the national school councils to the teachers concerned so that they can participate in such seminars; perhaps not necessarily in a golf course. For this to happen, supplements are necessary, as you know, which will be paid from the second day. But since most seminars last for three days, the idea has now been made to stop sending teachers to training for reasons of savings – on the part of the Tirol Council of State Schools – because it can no longer be paid and is obviously too expensive. The crux on the whole thing is that, of course, as in any other profession, one has to continue training and stay at the ball – although not necessarily at the golf ball – as well as the educators. I really think it is a worrying development if there is no longer any value for further education among teachers, because this is ultimately at the expense of the quality of education and therefore, of course, at the expense of the children and young people who are known to be our future. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, in your statements, which you have pronounced both in the Declaration of Government and in other words in the media, there is no really a policy of education, but a lot of helpless work of work in an educational soup that must ultimately escape the leaders of society, namely our youth, as the Federal Chancellor has said. A real educational offensive, as we could imagine it, does not correspond to that. A real educational offensive is a performance-oriented and powerful school and education system, but of course just as much competition instead of proporz and party book economy. It also includes depoliticisation of school and transparency in post-posting. Of course, just as Mr Oellinger has already said, the abolition of the two-thirds majority in school legislation is a matter of course. I now turn to Mr Höchtl. It was no different to expect, and it was actually no surprise that even from your side only beautiful words came – without content and without power of statement. The only thing I can agree with is your statement that the school is gradually dedicating itself to its actual tasks and not becoming a repair workshop for social misplanning.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29665	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29687	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. There are, of course, different views about the quality of education. There seem to be ladies and gentlemen in this house who think that education can only be good if more and more can be done – from the content, from the money, from the scope of the hours. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a different opinion in principle. Education must be a general political concern and must have adequate funding. The quality of education, however, depends in particular on the internal formulation of the offers. It has been said here that a year ago I said that I cannot imagine further savings. I'm asking you to question this carefully. I said quite clearly: Further linear cuts cannot be achieved for our schools. – That means: To reduce the units of value and leave the structures to date means to give a target but not to make the necessary funds available for it. That's what I call management by chaos. And I don't do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger said that the school was not a company. In turn, I would like to quote exactly. I found: The school, the entire school business, the whole ministry, like every company, has to question its structures from time to time and repeatedly answer the questions: Is that what we've been doing for 20 years, right? Is that what's grown up, right? Where can we change structures? That is why I have tried to change the structures for the 1996 and 1997 budgets in such a way that reasonable savings are possible, but because of the internal school reform and joint measures, the quality of the school remains guaranteed. The value units were no longer shortened. To every school that says she has to cut back: That's right, please, don't! The units of value are allocated comparable and transparent for the federal schools, for compulsory schools in Austria, according to a standard cost model. I would also like to make it quite clear that the measures, the objective I have set myself, will also be achieved in the budget. It has succeeded in keeping staff equal – despite the increases due to annual salary cuts, by the annual structural measures. On the other hand, it has succeeded in ensuring the necessary resources for positive development in the area of material expenditure, in the field of school building budgets, in the field of cultural matters, in the area of monument protection. As a small example, I would like to point out that I have succeeded in achieving an increase of 130 million Schilling in 1995 to 213 million Schilling in 1996. This will ensure that new accents can be set in this area. If you look at the share of the education budget in the overall budget, you can see very well that this government attaches great importance to the education and training of our young people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In 1995, the education sector, Chapters 12 and 14, had a share of 9.9% in the budget, with 10.3 percent in 1996, and 10.5% in 1997. We are also in a good position to do so in the European comparison. The share of education in Austria in gross domestic product is 5.4 percent, in England it is 5.3 percent, in Germany it is 5.4 percent. So we're in very good company. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to some areas addressed by my previous speakers. It was said that cuts were made in the curriculum and in the hours and that the parents were given the opportunity to make it easier for them to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not going to happen to the parents. There is a scientific study that students are particularly burdened at the interfaces from the primary school to the primary school or the lower level of the gymnasium, and parents and scientists have called for this discharge. We must remember that something has always happened in the hourboards! New important things always come to mind! I should like to remind you that 20 years ago one of my predecessors, Mr Piffl Per#evi%, cut all the timetables by two hours, and there is no educational emergency, because the quality is in the content. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If it is said that the children are now in – oh! – the few hours of learning the substance of the same curriculum, I can say: This must have been said by someone who has never talked to teachers or teachers, for they all assure me that the curriculums are framework curriculums and can be selected from these curriculums. The preliminary work on the classification of the curriculum into core areas and enlargement areas has been so extensive that we will begin the discussion with teachers in the coming autumn, so that we will then go on trial in the school year 1997/98 – rising with the first class primary school and with the first class gymnasium. Now also a word on "autonomy – emancipated school". Ladies and gentlemen, I am experiencing a very interesting development: First, everyone has called for autonomy, and now that decisions are to be made in different areas, suddenly there is great fear of them. The question of politicians is: Yes, can the schools do that? – I ask you, let us trust our schools a little more! It will not happen at once, the extended autonomy will be a process, but this process is important and correct. For years we were called upon to relax the ban on advertising. In fact, small sports shops sponsor some school at football or sponsor some company that drives the school some way. That's what they used to say: That's dishonest, you can relax this advertising ban, so that it's not a grey area. Let's do it now. But now, apparently, at once, many politicians are afraid of the opposition before the influence and what I know all about it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is good and reasonable for schools to be able to place special emphasis in cooperation with some businesses in the area. It is not a question of having the school budget financed by the economy at all. If you look at this budget, you will see that the necessary resources are provided for the work of the schools, for the heating of schools, for the cleaning of schools, for the operation of schools. But let us make it possible for schools to be able to set additional accents on the ground. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to an area that I think is very important, to the field of teacher employment, to the field of unemployed teachers. Two preliminary remarks. We live in a free country where every citizen can make his professional choice freely. I am opposed to administering the life opportunities of people by the state! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am opposed to operating the planning economy and to saying: You can only study that more, and you can only study it more! However, I would like to take a number of measures on the way to information, because it is also a matter of concern to me: increased information for mechanists on the situation in the field of employment. But I would nevertheless like to let young people choose freely what makes them his professional goal. I would like to increase the flexibility of working time in the school sector so that young teachers can also get into the professional world and cooperate with the labour market service agencies. There is a very nice project in Styria, in which teachers are transferred to the economy with the help of the labour market service, where this is also promoted. To this end, the State School Council established: This activity in the economy is a bonus for the teacher because he has acquired additional qualifications. So we need flexible models in this area. We must all work together to get a real grip on teacher unemployment – but do not ask for bans and not plan economy by requiring young people to take up their occupations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another area in my ministry, which is also a special concern to me, namely cultural matters. I believe that cultural policy and school are very important, something to be interconnected with, and I believe that in my area I have the task of promoting a broad spectrum. I would like to see a broad promotion of cultural matters, because I believe that one-sided support policy can be very quickly seen as an simplicity in relation to the necessary diversity. I therefore also tried to secure the necessary financial resources for the cultural sector; the financial resources for a focus on music-creative education, because I consider this area to be a particularly important area in the entire field of personal training. Personal training must not only be rational, so be one-sided. There are millennial activities this year where we are particularly involved in youth. As an example, I mention '1,000 years, 1 000 grades, 1 000 pupils', an open-air concert with young people from all the federal states, which we will make before the castle of Schönbrunn. I mention the area of adult education and folk culture. In adult education, I am particularly concerned with carrying life-long learning together with the institutions into the minds of the people and anchoring the offers in a wide range. I particularly mention the monument protection. I think it is our duty as a cultural nation to preserve our monuments as witnesses of our past, because: Future needs origin! I particularly mention the Austrian National Library, which we want to make accessible to wide circles, especially students.And I mention the activities of the museums, especially in connection with museum pedagogy, with the invitation of students to the museums. I also mention the entire exhibition, which has a quality that can be seen in Europe. When the Monet exhibition on this weekend, half-time of the exhibition, which is expected to be a hundred and twenty thousandth visitors, it becomes apparent that the exhibitions that are held by our museums are exhibitions that can be seen in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that education, education policy and policy at all must set long-term objectives. In the many areas that we started in school, in the cultural field, together with the committed teachers and teachers, whom I would like to thank here for their valuable work for our youth, politics needs long-term goals, long-term goals. I would like to highlight five points: First: Culture as a mission, as a basis for our living together, for our identity and in connection with it a guarantee for the diversity of culture. Secondly, I would like to establish an alliance for dual training, an alliance where the social partners, the economy, education, the social ministry and the Ministry of Economic Affairs work together. There must be no island solutions. At present, 40 percent of young people in the age group concerned are teaching. So we have to ask ourselves: How many more skilled workers do we need in the future? In which areas do we need skilled workers? What support must be given by the economy in order to maintain the willingness to train? – This must not be a punctual measure, but it must be a beautiful package of measures, where my role is to guarantee the permeability of teaching to further education through a career matura. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: a package solution!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:We could have already!]] The third major objective I have set myself is to create an educational platform for all adult education, to develop an overview of vocational training and further development in the field of lifelong learning. The fourth and very important point for me is an initiative to use modern media in schools and in the field of lifelong learning. I believe that modern media will have a very important role to play, and we must secure this commitment. The fifth suggestion that I would like to make now is an increased picture of what occupations will be needed in the future, a field of professional research so that we can focus on the right objectives in training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They say: Yes, there are targets presented, but how are the funds secured? If you read the budget accompanying laws exactly, you will see that I have agreed with the Minister of Finance that revenue from privatizations in my area as soon as they are made can be used for education and cultural matters. I think that's something important. The whole government thus shows: Education is important to us! Income from privatisations for education, education and training are also used. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, I note: In a country with no essential raw material resources, people's knowledge and skills are particularly important. On the way to the information society of the next century: Knowledge and competence are Trumpf in Austria! The positive development of society and the economy is based on the ability, the knowledge of people, the qualifications of people, the creativity of people and the inventiveness of people. I therefore believe that we are well advised to look positively into the future and to carry together an educational offensive, a future offensive that gives the young generation the opportunity to deal with the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29795	The honourable Member, Dr Preisinger, has referred to an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29820	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! You have declared that you did not make the statements I have quoted in this form on the savings package. That's wrong! I'm correcting as follows: You said: It won't be the next savings package. The impact of the current savings package would be considered carefully before further measures would be discussed. – APA notification of 13 March. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29850	The Federal Minister has made a statement once again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29871	We have taken structural measures. There was a first savings package, and subsequently there were structural measures that questioned the business school.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29907	As the next speaker, Mr. Dr. Cap has been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e29928	Mr President. High house! One would almost like to speak on a number of other points, given the fact that Mrs Minister's position is really interesting, beyond the mere cultural sphere of her department, because you have raised very important questions where it would be worthwhile to go into them in detail and to deepen the debate. But I think we will certainly be able to do this in some discussion here in the house and in the public. I would like to focus on the cultural aspects of the debate we are having today. The budget is the policy put forward in figures, and that says a lot about what we are planning to do with programme implementation. But it is also important that, in addition to detailed questions, one also talks about the basic line, in which context all of this should take place. I was somewhat surprised that, in his first opinion today, Mr Krüger tried to profile himself as a Marxist theorist or to relive the Marxist discussion around Antonio Gramsci. Perhaps he wants to build a Marxist thinker wing in FPÖ. At least that would be a thinker wing at all. That would be a step forward. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He must not be just as Marxist, but after all, he could contribute a little to the spiritual recovery of this group, which hangs here like the salmon, instead of listening enthusiastically and joyfully to my speech now. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Now a little mood comes up, that's right. It is now also necessary to go into it in detail. I believe that Mr Krüger has indeed dealt with Gramsci. He only draws the wrong conclusions and wants to develop from them a power conquest strategy of the FPÖ. That is why it is worth taking action. Gramsci: "The Repressive Hegemony", "The Spiritual Hegemony". – "The spiritual hegemony", which is far more difficult for you. You have, in fact, developed points of approach which are not to be underestimated and where I believe that you have really been pushed in. [[Abg. May. Trattner: When did you actually study?]] When you look at the spiritual hegemony, and that concerns church, school, family, culture, media, all these areas: It is true that those social groups, exercising power and conquering the power due to economic, political and other structures and historical developments, exercise spiritual hegemony in these areas. But it is quite legitimate and customary in a democracy that there is a democratic contest within the framework of spiritual hegemony. But that's where you refuse, and you're already making the whole thing the instrument of your strategy of taking power by saying: All those who are in power are, in principle, a priori once abusers of power who merely abuse power. There's working with crime strategies, and then you're trying to detonate, and you're trying to use everything to undermine the dignity of the representatives. They are trying to use everything to destroy credibility, including the price of having an impact on the democratic institutions and on the democratic institutions of this society. I don't know if You're right, because then, if there's nothing left at all, there's nothing left to conquer. Therefore, this strategy would be illogical. But you still seem to follow that. But maybe it's a mistake in thinking, or you didn't think it was over; it's always hard to think something to end. In the final effect, of course, this could also be one of the consequences. As regards the repressive organs: The behavior of the AUF in the police is simple and simple what you have been accusing the left for decades, namely immigration strategy, otherwise nothing: Inside the wax tubes such as the grey mice, everywhere in and there create unrest in the so-called, in its diction now, in its Gramscinism, repressive organs of the state. One should and must, I think, point out what is ultimately behind it. They're always talking about left-wing cultural hegemony. What to understand You're actually under left-wing cultural hegemony? What to understand You under – I say so now – social democratic cultural hegemony? What's that? Tell it, you or anyone else from your epigones and descendants who will still come here! What's that? What kind of human image separates us? Explain and finally explain your "blue" human image! Let's get to know this once. If you just place the haider or perhaps in the future the sweater, who made an intellectual upswing yesterday and set himself on a level with Haider, then that is not enough. I don't know if that will satisfy alone. We want to know how your human image looks! I suspect that it is an authoritarian human image. I believe that it is a human image where you are seeking a social structure, where one determines and the other does what one says. This, in order to put it to the point, is essentially the human image you have. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's Vrannitzky! In the SPÖ, that's it!]] We stand for the emancipated, for the social, for democratic people, for a human image, where a social order of solidarity is possible. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: (laughing) That doesn't believe itself!]] We should discuss this once. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Ask One...!]] It is clear that they have only one laugh for solidarity. This should really be noted in the stenographic protocols: They laugh at the word solidarity. You really should notice that. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Ask one thing what he asks with instruction in his ministry...!]] Thank you for emphasizing this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is certainly significant, and from this point of view, these terms, such as state artists and monocatic grants of subsidies, are also relevant to you. You do not want to tell me that you really would not prefer it if you were the lender of these subsidies. You will find the authoritarian vibes when you remember that you could grant monocractic subsidies. Of course you want to! Then I look at what room the artists have and then what your definition of freedom, what freedom you think, then actually looks like. Be careful! The gangband ideologists are with you. We have been able to recognize this more than clearly using the denunciatorial posters, where you have presented individual artists to the prangler of the poster walls. That's your own understanding! Just stand there and finally confess to it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Maybe you say something to the budget – or you don't think of it?]] If you don't overlap with the calls, it will become even more incomprehensible – that is, in the form, in the content it is incomprehensible anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr President! No one has to talk about the matter anymore! You can condone a party, but you don't have to say anything to the budget!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Please, Mr. Teacher!]] The second area: What would be your alternative then? What would be your alternative if you were to keep the market up? Then who exercises the selection? Then who is it? – The sponsor is it! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There's nothing to say about the budget!]] I am deeply involved in cultural policy, in the truest sense of the word, and if I am even closer to you, I am even deeper inside of the selection that the sponsor has to exercise if one has to carry out promotions in the field of culture. And that is why I am deeply convinced that the state has, of course, to carry out promotion tasks and to provide the corresponding spaces so that art and culture can develop freely. And I must say to Mr Morak that he should not put us on record that we always remember where the "coal" comes from. That's absurd! On the contrary! It is a question of being able to develop freely that they have been deprived of the constraints of the market. It should not be the case that the Director-General X or the Head of the Advertising Department Y decides. It'll always be decided by anyone. Or are you a defender of the fact that when the artist goes up the Mariahilferstraße somewhere and happens to throw him a "Patzerl", he should take up the money there? Anyone will have to forgive it, and anyone will have to decide that it will be forgiven. And anyone will have to decide how much that is. They are pressing around this fact! They do not want to address this aspect at all. And you are not truthfully saying what criteria you would then be able to accept, nor do you say that you really would like to have even more monoctic structures, so that you could then forgive how you imagine them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't want to listen! We've said that often enough, but you don't listen!]] You can't even give yourself so harmlessly that it won't be seen through. Think of the fate of the "Marzipan-Haider" in Italy, the Gianfranco Fini – a much more harmless edition of the Jörg Haider – who has now won a smear in the elections. The population has seen through what is meant by a concept behind it. He is also a follower of the authoritarian model of society with all the consequences that are ultimately associated with it for the population. And here, I think, you should think about whether your strategy really makes sense, whether it will really do what Mr Krüger tried to do before, and whether it would make sense. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you think we can do? What is still permitted according to your interpretation?]] That would be interesting, we could discuss this for a long time. But I come to another important aspect, namely the aspect of the "Market – State – Promotion – Distribution". The Minister could probably talk for hours about the internal distribution of an art budget, about how there are distribution conditions. It's also a subjective decision somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The question is whether he tells us everything when he speaks for hours!]] It is being tried to somehow objectively do so with the support of councils. One is trying to find real constructions and to create the widest possible spaces and to allow as few suspicions of intervention as possible so that this is possible. And yet I'm telling you: They must always be aware that there is this tension of demand, of the market, of the great name. I want to look at the one who plays the dompeur there – be it in the theatre, in the music world or somewhere else – when someone who has such a market value has a big name, comes in at the door and says: My market value is x million. Either I get it – or I don't come. – I look at the intentionant, who then says: Then don’t come, I’d rather take the aunt wetti! I would like to look at the intentionant who can really represent this! But I am in favour, Mr Morak, of expressing and discussing this openly and honestly, and also of criticizing it from me. But one should not always call for spaces of action from the head of the department, which he cannot fulfil without going through the steel bath from a dozen famous names. Then it says: There's one who doesn't want the appreciation of the art company at all, he doesn't want the and the performance "top" to be occupied with top names – which, by the way, most of those who go to the performances actually expect. Most of them want a top crew. That is why I believe that one should be really careful and should try to create demands in areas that are really difficult to control and difficult to estimate, which I believe are not perfect and ideal solubility; and one should also be aware of in the discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But can we still have our own opinion?]] You're a master of number argumentation, Mr Morak. You're doing this completely different from the creeper. The krüger does this with the wood hammer. First he skins the ideology hammer and then lets a few numbers repopulate. But they make this much smarter: You do not go with the ideology hammer, but you pack the ideology into numbers and, of course, build up subjective scenarios. And everyone who can only count half-way says: For God's sake, it's really no different! My God, the Morak is right, we have to do it the way he just said it. – I really do not suppose that you have not prepared yourself competently and dealt with it. Criticism must be, even if one is in a government together. But I believe that figures are not all, but that you really have to go ahead more closely with what impetus, what perspective you have and what you want with it. What we want is a free, solidarityal society in which art and culture can develop and where the spirits of the past do not ceaselessly dance like shadows on the walls and spread fear and terror there. We don't want that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's exactly what we want!]] There, I think, a lot of positive has happened. I am glad that gallery promotion – although one can of course always discuss funding: If she is right, does she get wrong, does it hit the right person more correctly, does it hit the wrong one? That's clear to me. It is not possible for all those who are being promoted to be satisfied with the fact that everyone is running around, as at 24. December. There's no such thing as that! There are those who are dissatisfied because they didn't get anything, and those who got something but didn't get it. I haven't seen anyone who was unhappy because he got too much. This is a difficult area, even psychologically a difficult one. Therefore, I believe that in principle this is positive: film promotion "100 years of cinema", expansion of cinema infrastructure. I know you have to do a lot more, and I also know that the real power structures are somewhere else. It would be worth a night of its own to debate it. But I think it is positive that one has taken steps there, such as about 3 million schillings more for the cultural initiatives. Also there you can create again contexts with the internal distribution: How much does the Peymann have? How much do the cultural initiatives have? We could also debate this, and I am sure that there could be a lot more to bring it into a different relationship. But still: It is positive that this is done. Under Minister Scholten has really done a lot in the field of cultural initiatives. I think it is positive that a cultural institution should be established in New York. I think it is positive that a little further progress is being made in the Museum Quarter area. And I also share the concerns recently expressed by Director Seizel as regards the consequences of the regulation of works contracts. One really will have to look at it exactly – also from the effects. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Now it's too late! You should have done that earlier!]] You'll have to look at that. I have always been concerned about this. You're going to have to look at this carefully. We may need to think about budgetary compensations. They now have to switch to service contracts. These are things where, in my opinion, a thought process is quite appropriate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You should always think first and then act, and not vice versa!]] But I also ask: Where is the social security for one who has only these works contracts? All of this is somehow the description of a state in which the budgetary circumstances of the institution in question might have to be different. There, I think, we still have to think to make some improvements in the end. Finally – ceterum censeo, to give the subject a little more salary – I believe that the Vienna Philharmonics should record women, so that simply and simply the sound becomes cleaner!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30206	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Schmidt. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30228	That's how you manage to get cross-party applause. Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! In me, you, Minister Scholten, must address you with your functional title: Minister for Science, Transport and Art. And that is because I deeply regret that you have participated in this change of expertise, namely in a change of expertise which has absolutely nothing to do with policy and the subject matter, since there has not even been a discussion of how to summarize agendas in your department – at the Minister of Art and Culture – which actually belong together. It has already been discussed today that the New York Cultural Institute has not been negotiated in the Cultural Committee but in the Building Committee. Whether this is the right or the wrong minister ad personam, does nothing for me. I'm talking about where the agents belong. For example, the fact that the architects have the Ministry of Economic Affairs as the supervisory authority simply shows a misunderstanding for the cultural creators, and no one – at least from your side I do not hear anything about it – has used it to sum up these agendas once in a place of business, because I think it would only be possible to promote a real focus. I say that only once at the same time, because every time you are approached, it will seem to me that there has been something that has nothing to do with your place of business, while other things remain on the track. As far as the budget itself is concerned: Mr Morak said earlier that it was remarkable and gratifying that the figures could be kept in some way. There's a little bit of it. However, one has to question – because the number alone does not say anything about this; there has even been an increase – which is what the inflation rate is. And if I'm mostly... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Employment contracts!]] Mr Cap, you're talking a lot too late about the work contracts! Before we got to Parliament, we should have talked about it. Normally, this is the way: It is the essence of the lawmaking that you think about it before and not after it. Mr Oellinger is right to say that it is something if you think about it at least afterwards. If, for example, I imagine that production costs in the art industry are rising by 30 percent, I am not happy to keep the figures either, because I know that there are quite different challenges in general. That is why I do not think we can rejoice so much that something has been left the same. A second point, which also includes: You, Mr Minister, say that there is now a point in the budget, namely the post for the Frankfurt Book Fair, which makes it possible to stir up a little more. How much to stir You can't. On the other hand, I only need to look at the budget for the Salzburg Festival, which alone rises from 56.6 million to 76.3 million and thus takes away almost everything from the margin won. And if we are already in these exact figures – and it is already symptomatic of what is being spent – I would like to make a comment that I have already made in the Committee on Culture, because it is my concern and because, in the hope of strengthening your back, I want to put something into motion in this way: I mean the subsidy you give to the Raimund theater. I am not concerned with the Raimund-Theater itself, but there is an agreement from 1986 or 1989, I do not know that now – 1986! – that the federal government also supports the Vienna private theatre. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten: 1986!]] That's quite reasonable, but the Raimund theatre is not a private theatre anymore, because it's one of the United Stages, it's part of the Wiener Holding. That is to say, it belongs to the city of Vienna, and I do not see at all that the federal government has been issued by its cultural budget, which could be much better spent, since a subsidy for one – and to that! – spending musical stage of which I have to say that it is anyway a unique in Austria, and it should be financed in a different way. That musical stages in particular have a special value for tourism, for the economy and all that – well; should be. But then the funding should also come from this side; with that the Minister of Culture would have much more scope! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That belongs only once in the way! I am talking about it again and again, because only this sum would have allowed a completely different scope – and especially for the works contracts. These contracts concern the cultural workers in particular. I come again to these works contracts – because this is related to the art and culture scene. And here I have to come to the conspiracy theory of Mr Krüger, who always brings it: So I don't think I'm going in any case. I think you're reading too much in the "Marzland Yearbook" – I don't know if there is, but the conspiracy theories always come from the "Grenzland Yearbook". [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You read that, not me!]] Yes, unfortunately I didn't read it exactly enough at the time, otherwise I would have caused quite different things at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I didn't read it!]] But I admit that at that time I read it across. That was bad enough and therefore also a building block in my alienation process. But: This conspiracy theory, which is now transformed and applied to the "Free Scene", is really not to be surpassed by sobriety! To blame them for organizing themselves – so, please, is there something more scurrying and something more divisive? – This is not only a free theatre club without any obligation or membership, but a voluntary matter. They get 2 million annual budgets, and then you have to look at them – and that's really remarkable! – how they act: Unlike government agencies, where money always flows into staff, office and all these things, the money actually goes into cultural promotion and the art scene. Its seat is in Vienna. There are two employees made up of one managing director and one secretary; the salary is one at 25 000 s, the other at 17 000 s – that is, please, magnitudes we would never experience with officials. The costs are the office rental and similar things. That is, there really is something happening for the cultural scene! But I am not surprised that you are attacking them, especially since you are just now in Upper Austria a trial against Mr Primetzhofer, whom you once again call – how did you call him?; I banish the choice of words, because otherwise it would not be possible to do so in the long run. Anyway, you lost a trial against him. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Defense of duty!]] That's right. Diffamants need a voice tube in Parliament, and I see myself as a voice tube in order to actually defend the diffamators here – you're right – whoever that is! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Only – that for the information of the High House –: This is because the FPÖ - the FPÖ organ "New Free Newspaper" - has only recently lost a trial and has to make a compensation payment of 40 000 S to Mr Primetzhofer, because the court has considered the bad rebuttal in connection with the media law to be particularly difficult. That is why the court has raised the compensation for such offences from 30 000 to 40 000 s. That you are annoyed by this, I understand, only I do not understand that you will then use this pult to continue your diffamations and thus also bring a spirit into the cultural scene, which has nothing to do with openness not only but which also sows discord and leads to polarization, but not to polarization in the essence of a dispute culture, but to a polarization with the essence of the mutual and aggression. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We don't even know that! I don't know! Why do you want me to be angry?]] I think that this is so dangerous, because our cultural climate – and I will come back to it afterwards – is actually one that is on the rise, and therefore such word messages are also appropriate. But I would now like to return to what the "Free Scene" itself and what the cultural scene needs; in this context, the works contracts have been particularly serious. The fact that a media print that makes a profit of 500 million schillings is still concerned that it has no extra burden of about 70 million, I fully understand, but that you are going to kneel there, I am now going to blame you, Federal Minister. I do not understand that you do not lay on the rails for the cultural workers as much as you do. Apparently, your conviction toward your party colleague Hums was less than the conviction of Mr. Digand. Unfortunately, God does not speak exactly for you – perhaps not for Lord Hums, that may be already. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Artificial artists are excluded! Have you ever read the law?]] In any case, the result is such that the cost of production – it has no idea, but that does nothing – will actually rise by about 30 percent. And when I see today’s newspapers – I don’t know what paper – I read that the Art History Museum – someone quoted earlier Director Seizel – has already taken the lead in leaving out all the works contracts that have been entrusted with the preparation of major events. There you have to imagine what that means! Another topic, for example, the filmmakers, on whom you can read it very clearly. The film-makers are therefore a special example, because of course they always have project-related service contracts because they have an all-asymmetric income. They can just make a lot of money, but then they are unemployed again for months. This is why, in addition to unemployment benefit, they have the special agreement that they can earn 16 700 S in addition to unemployment benefit without falling out of unemployment insurance. I thought that was really useful – although I did not otherwise welcome derogations – only: If I have a completely asymmetric professional image, then the legislation has to respond to this asymmetry. I therefore considered this special agreement to be a reasonable response. They then had the opportunity to insure themselves at that time; this self-insurance amounted to 195 s a day, which has just come to an end. In this way a certain security was given – a certain one. I too believe that absolute security must not be provided to a cultural artist. However, this regulation has now been removed from the fact that the film-makers have the same level of low-qualityness, namely, 3 600 S, and I must say, please, that there is no longer any chance in this type of activity that they still have social insurance or health insurance protection. And I think it is worrying if you make an exception on the one hand because here is a different group of people affected and where you think you might be drawn through the newspapers in this respect – you can read it, then perhaps you know yourself – but on the other hand, because these are artists who do not have lobbys, not even make an approach to keep them over water. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You're insured!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is also an exception! You have no idea what you're talking about! Have you ever looked into the Structural Adjustment Act?]] I'm sorry! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As far as filming is concerned, however, I wonder – and perhaps you can tell me that in your remarks – where you take your optimism, to believe that 150 000 S will come from 1996 and 1997 where, as I have read the documents, I have received input 3 248 S. That's a small thing, but it's just symptomatic. By the way, what is also symptomatic: There is a different assessment of the activity of the Austrian Film Commission. When I remember your contribution to the Committee on Culture: There she was praised by you. The film scene itself, however, feels it is highly inefficient. I now see that it will not receive any funds for 1996 and 1997. I would be interested whether you have joined the qualification of the film scene or what else is behind it, or if the first is the case, it would also interest me – although I do not want to go to the level of discussion about the executions; but it is nevertheless interesting – whether the managing director gets his 2 million discharges or not. When I look at your optimism on the one hand, I wonder – and I really liked to know that – what this cultural policy catalogue of measures, which you propose with 31.2 million schilling, should actually bring. I would already like it to respond either to those things that have already been commissioned and where there are foundations on which one can build or, on the other hand, that one itself initiates discussions about things that already work in other countries. I believe that the curator model we have in Austria is a quite positive step and a model to be supported. I also believe that the advisory model is a positive model and to be supported. Only – and that's annoying me –: If we are satisfied that this is a positive model in itself, but then let it work differently and close it and prevent any transparency, then I too will be skeptical. We have therefore put a question to you, Mr Minister, and the answer came yesterday. But I have to say a lot about this answer, I have to say. We are asking: Do the Advisory Boards know how high the financial resources for which they have the right to propose? The budget framework, in accordance with the relevant financial legal approaches, is known to the members of the respective advisory committees. It is not evil, but the answer is actually a joke, because I also know that they know the approaches from the budget. But you know exactly what we meant – otherwise we would not have to ask you – that there is a budget approach for the ministry, for a section, but that the advisory board itself does not know how much it can really have. It's all this once, it's just a bit biter, because you don't know if the official himself, the head of the section, maybe has already done some sort of issue. That is, you make people recommend something without even giving them the basis for which they could then be valued. This is a demise for me, and it is also very clear from your answer to our question 5. There we ask: Is there an award key, for example, where part of the budget is granted by officials and another part by a decision of an advisory council? – If no, why not? You know exactly where this question went. And what are you giving us to answer? – Within the meaning of the provisions of the Art Promotion Act, the Advisory Boards shall make proposals. The art promotions are granted by me or on my behalf by officials in the departments. That's an unanswered answer! I really think that is a point where you should actually see from our previous work that we are not concerned with scratching out something polemic, where we are then going to drive a hateful minister through the public, but that it really is about making this system so transparent that it has grown to such intrusive and inferior attacks. But if, of course, you close on the other side and don't let anything look through at all, then prepare the ground, because of course we have much easier to blame you and to submit any party-political motivations to you. And that's exactly what I want to prevent! Therefore: Please don't treat us like that if we ask questions! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that cultural policy decisions should in principle be made by experts. That doesn't divide us so much. We should therefore finally take care of a system that ensures that. Now there is the foundation system in other countries. It also works there, while there is not even a qualified debate in Austria. That is why I start every time: because I hope that in this way something will come into motion sometime. I think that on the one hand we could have several flies on one side at these foundations. We would have a dual financing system in such a way that on the one hand, we would determine an intensity – of course with a public tender – and on the other hand, technical councils, which should have a budget independent of the intensity. What we could achieve then would be – and that seems to me to be the most important thing in the cultural scene – to make it possible to budget for several years, one that also allows planning, namely a planning that goes, of course, beyond one year. Because that is necessary in the cultural scene. I would also like to say that, in the case of contracts for work, there is something which has not yet been thought of, for example, very much. Associations in which, due to their legal construction, the managing directors are liable with their personal assets. Now, they have already done a lot – in reliance on a certain legal situation. Of course, the changes reject these people madly, they come into economic difficulties that are not at all foreseeable. This too is a way of thinking that should have been taken into account. But back to the foundations. In my opinion, this is one of the few instruments that would make it possible for forward-looking planning, which would give us an additional opportunity to get out of party politics. I do not think that is always under stand, although I also know some examples, but I do not think that this is, so to speak, the profile bad. That happens every now and then, I believe in the word, and often it hurts deeply. We should therefore look for those structures which do not exactly make such a policy impossible or, at any rate, minimize to the extent that it really comes to a cultural policy planning carried by others, and that is more objective. If we are ready to set up such foundations, we also need a next step, and I also need to note this in every debate – although we will discuss the Federal Theatre Report in detail – that is another distribution of the funds within the art budget. It is for me and it remains unacceptable for me that of the 5 billion schillings 3 billion schillings go to the Bundestheaterverband. It's just a wrong weighting. But when you clearly need it, you have to think about how this instrument can be changed. I'm not saying it from this pult for the first time: It would be an opportunity to turn this Bundestheaterverband into a GesmbH and the General Secretariat into a holding company that could manage the workshops together, as well as marketing, ticket sales and so on. This will also give more self responsibility to the theatre. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I now come to a study carried out by Swiss business consultancy ROI in 1989. It's related to that. One must imagine one thing if one looks at the budget of the Bundestheaterverband: The amount of the pension was 772 million Schilling in 1995. In 1996 it rose to 806 million schilling, in 1997 to 837 million schilling. That is, in two years he's up by 66 million, which is 8.5 percent. This, in turn, is linked to the fact that all of this goes according to the civil service law. The crazy thing about the whole story is that almost one third of the budget of the Bundestheaterverband goes to pension insurance alone. That can't make any sense! Among other things, the ROI study already made the following proposals in 1989: The independence of the stages in independent budget units, with the free choice of the purchase of services, the independence of the technology, which should be conducted in market economic terms and which should also offer its services to third parties, the introduction of a professional marketing, the direct calculation of the cost of production, including workshop services, transport, storage costs, event and stage costs, the introduction of a cost-type, cost-setting and cost-bearing bill. Nothing of this has really been taken into account, Mr Minister, and that is the terrible one, because alone in the field of technology, the ROI has calculated, would be a saving potential of 15 to 20 percent. And that's between 100 and 140 million schilling. In other words, if this restructuring had started after 1989, the Secretary-General Springer would not have to complain again and again about having to accept cuts – 60 million this year. I fully understand him because these cuts are at the expense of the operating budget, and that is exactly what is terrible, because then the cuts in the game plan budget are down. Sometimes that's 20 percent of the total budget, and that can be the beginning of the end of a theatre. These are all things you could change and stop through another structure. That nothing is happening here and that there is no willingness at all to discuss the construction of the Bundestheater Association, I think this is most unfortunate. For cultural communication. If, for me, an essential change would be the Stiftungswesen, the second essential change in the Federal Theatre Association, the third priority of cultural policy for me is cultural mediation. Now I see that there is a remarkable commitment to the cultural service of money, but – that is what I regret – I lack a target for which these funds should actually be used. It's 27 million schilling – so I'm back with Ronacher, that's about the same scale. It's like a red thread. I therefore believe that this cultural mediation is so important because – and I have just mentioned this – the cultural understanding that is spreading in this country is an alarming one. There have been two events – the Minister Gehrer is not here now – in Tyrol, which were mostly carried only in the Tyrolean newspapers, but which are also symptomatic and which I therefore believe should be mentioned here. One was a fire attack on the 9th. ==References====External links== The "Villgrater Kulturwiese" is an association that wants to question its own traditions – starting from march music about the painting of Egger-Lienz and more. This, of course, does not please some and has led to polarization in this area, whose tip has then fallen down in this fire attack. I think this is more than thoughtful, because it should also be seen as a symptom that – and this has only happened now, in the night from Saturday to Sunday in Tyrol – there has now been an act of destruction again. The installation of the installation artist Franz West was destroyed. Now you will transfer this work to a hall, because you obviously cannot secure it outdoors. This makes it quite clear what aggressiveness against modern art, against the questioning of traditions, is developing, which can ultimately trigger a snowball effect in our society, which is not limited to the cultural sector – and that is bad enough. This is why I think it is so important that we pay more attention to cultural communication, that we also make more resources available, because this is what we need, and that it is started in schools and given appropriate support by your place of business, Mr Minister. I consider certain forms of culture to be incredibly important. However, I still have a sentence from Mrs Gehrer's ear which she has told us in the Committee on Culture, namely, in connection with the importance of reading for the formation of a person's personality. She said that the basic principles of reading, computing and writing were the most important tools for the development of a child. So if she really looks at reading, calculating and writing, and does not realize that reading is a personal dimension to human personality development and that reading or the book is its own dimension for the development of a society, then this is already an discussed sign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] That was the occasion anyway. It was then that there was a head of state in this country who was proud that he had read only one book in his life. That is what we really have to say from here so that it can also be recorded in a protocol. That's really a strong piece. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: And that only half!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: It was "Der Schatz im Silbersee", a Karl May!]] I don't know what you understand when you say "always," but I don't want to get involved now, because I really believe that this is a far too serious problem, because it really expresses a sourced attitude that can also be a softer for a society if that's the people who sit in such positions in politics. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: I meant it ironically!]] But you should really – and that is why I would be glad if this were to be included in the teaching debate – provide the basis for for the fact that, for example, fine artists, without having to be teachers, can also appear as a sign teacher. We must overcome this formalism, which we have with us, that for everything we need our testimonies – otherwise we can’t – and really bring a lot more cultural creators into schools. I think this is necessary because in this way a completely different discourse is created and a different ambience is created, but also another attitude is mediated when it comes not only to the teacher who has learned something, but also to those who live with it and whose life content it is. This would also have an exemplary effect and would be an incentive for young people to deal with it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That was the last thing I wanted to say, because my last one is dealing with something where there is also an occasion that, if I'm not fooled, is not a week old. It is a matter which I have already mentioned here. I think it is wrong if a judge or an official, whoever, decides what art is and what is not. And that's exactly what happens when § 188 "Religion of Religious Teachings" is applied. This has recently happened to director Hubsi Kramar with his play "Dracula" where in the general sample an official of the police authorities has been sitting... – That's the 188! – If an official listens to something and suddenly feels that § 188 is affected – it was in this case the adaptation of the father-in-law – an advertisement is refunded, and the director then had to remove this passage from his piece. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: Is that the 188? Isn't that the 110?]] This is simply the wrong way, and we must therefore very well discuss whether this criminal provision can still be maintained. I think she's being overtaken, I think she's wrong. It is not a matter of the state to judge it. It is very important to me that we also come to a private art promotion. However, I consider the counter-arguments that will be put to you by this side to be really bizarre and bizarre. [[towards the freedom of movement]] The fact that the Minister is against it so that he has everything in his hand is really a bizarre thought – I do not think so. But something else also bothers me about you, namely that you do not become active here in order to develop models that could result in private sponsors as well, and which go beyond whether or not there are any advertising purposes. But here we come exactly to the problem – that is clear to me, and that is why we need to discuss it – that a financial officer or judge decides what art is and what it is not. And that is what we need to know in the consideration of what we decide for, namely, the freedom of art or the rule. And I clearly choose the freedom of art. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] If I am already with freedom and what is to be promoted by the state and what is not, I join the ceterum censeo of my predecessor Cap and the ceterum censeo of my colleague Ablinger, who has also put it in her young speech, and say: The Wiener Philharmonikers are not to receive state subsidies as long as they encourage discrimination against women by not recruiting women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30502	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30524	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to start by answering some practical questions raised in the debates. First of all, work contracts: On the one hand, a large part of the artists are excluded from this provision, namely those whose living income does not result from works contracts, on the other hand, I am actually very divided in my position. As a budget-management body, it is, of course, wrong for me to see that what we have to discuss has been made more difficult by additional burdens, and that this has made budgetary room for greater flexibility. For the artists, however, it must be said – and I think this is an argument that has been too short in the debate here – that one should actually be glad if there is a legal pressure which makes it impossible to do or continue what in many cases has been the case in the past, namely that one wanted to implement as much as possible with the budget available for a project, the social protection standards or the social provisions for those involved in this project. That means, practically speaking: Of course, from the point of view of a project-disponer, it is more pleasant to engage someone for whom he does not have to pay social security contributions. However, if he comes into the situation once he wishes to claim social security claims, then it is very pleasant for him to pay contributions in his earlier years. That means, in a simple way: I believe that this measure is basically correct, although we must be careful not to allow this narrow but existing room for manoeuvre on the budget. The second point, I think, was one of these net fantasies. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are "net fantasies"?]] There is this IG Free Theatre, and it has actually established a network before this provision, which aims to motivate as many of the free groups as possible, also supported or financed by appropriate public funds, to pay works contracts with social security contributions to the participating artists in order to get out of this potential case. Under the rule, I think, we should be able to deal with this narrowness in the interest of the artists, and this argument, which is brought back and forth, at times with a great deal of permission, namely that this famous self-exploitation is happening there, but to a clear extent can be contradicted, namely by the social security obligation. As regards the Advisory Boards: Mr Cap has already described it. That's a little bit of a ring game or a cycle to say it more seriously. You can choose from the finite number of possible forms of organization available for the correct, demanding, committed disposal of art promotions, which you want, you will always be confronted with the argument that there are a certain chain of decisions that can ultimately be traced back to personnel decisions. Anyone has to decide who does what at some point. And this leads – I now consider this to be right away from my person, but from the point of view of a democratic and also constitutionally regulated system – ultimately to a political responsibility for personnel decisions and then, in the final consequence, to the decisions prepared, advised, taken by these persons themselves, are definitely designed. I think that, in the argument of the public debate, we can always read new facets out of this system, so to speak, that there is actually no wiser than to draw back on it, to say that we are making personnel decisions, and those whom we have used should, with as much room as possible – and here I am at the same time at the same time in reply – take into account the de facto decisions of the daily disposition either make themselves or advise that this comes close to a sever meeting. Well, as far as this reply is concerned. I have already said this, I think, in the Committee on Culture: The Advisory Boards know – and this is not an unkindness now – the approaches. As you said: Everyone knows it because you can read it out of the booklet. In some cases, the Advisory Boards know closely drawn boundaries within which they can work – within these approaches. That's what your question was about. This is not generally applicable, however, because it is one of the major advantages of this system, or at least the way it is currently being handled, that it does not allow money to be lost. This means that we keep this internal division so flexible that, if the budget is not fully used in an advisory board, these resources are available within this approach to another advisory board – between theatre and dance, for example, or between smaller and larger productions, or vice versa. And I thought it was bad if we made it impossible. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That is not why you have to make it impossible!]] Well, it's for councils as well as for ministers: Once they've got a budget, they'll take it out. There is also some claim that this is not a fixed budget allocated to an advisory board, but that the advisory board should deal with certain projects. Finally, our job is to ensure that these advisory recommendations can also be met financially. We're on our way, I'd like to say. The number of councils whose budget is more clearly defined is increasing, and the number where it is kept open internally is decreasing. In some areas, especially in the field of performing art, I think this is important. To Mr Morak, there are only two sentences. Of course, what you said about music promotion is great. So on the one hand – and I think this is great when there are so many music schools in Vorarlberg – is the remark: What is happening now in schools, in the Ministry of Education, is great, because in Vorarlberg there are so many music schools, and on the other hand, what happens at the music universities is highly considerate, because there is a study that raises questions. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Two studies, three studies, probably much more! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: No, he didn't say that!]] I stick to my wording, which you yourself have quoted here: Your attitude – I do not want to become party-political right now – as regards the commitment to musical education, which, I believe, is not disputed by anyone, is based on the respective responsibilities within the Federal Government. That is, if someone is from the SPÖ Minister of Education, then the schools are guilty – you said it yourself before, and I have already said it myself here – and the music universities are doing great things. If it's the other way round, the schools are great, and the music universities are suddenly questionable institutions. I say one thing to you – I take this issue very seriously –: We will not do anything on this subject if we do not abandon these attitudes and do not come to a common position, which means that we act together in the whole field of music education and also in the field of further art mediation and do not derive from the current responsibilities for individual institutions, so to speak, praise and blame. I don't think that's in line with the seriousness of the matter. With regard to Mr Stein's honor in Salzburg: You know that this isn't a fee I'm disposing of, decision-making – as always. This House must, however, decide once and for all by individual political groups: Either we want autonomous cultural organisations, which can be praised or criticized for their decisions, but also have to stand for them – or we do not want to. On the one hand, every political decision is called for and said that this is a political intervention and the autonomy of art is disturbed, and on the other hand, if a system actually works autonomously – and the Salzburg Festival Fund is now an independent institution – said: What do you say? Do you really want such fees to be paid out there? My answer to this is first of all the autonomy of the establishment, second of the market which has already been pointed out, and thirdly, I think it is wrong for such fees to be paid, and I do not want to hide that here either. [[Accompaniment with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum as well as acclaim of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] It is only then that we must also be aware that we have to ask this question in general: To what extent – and I am back to what Mr Cap said – do we actually participate in the international market? [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – A lot speaks for it. – Is there perhaps a point where we say: In certain very costly questions, do we not want to participate because we believe that the effort is too great compared to the current qualitative yield? – But then it cannot be reduced to a director or to a acting director or responsible person who has once again entered the crossroads politically, but then this is a general discussion. Then it is not a question of Mr. Stein giving interviews that can annoy you, and then, as it were, you take his case out exemplaryly, but then it is about the general discussion: To what extent do we take part in an international game of games, which is probably not well represented by those you mentioned, namely free cultural initiatives? You know this debate. What I think is wrong is that each one of them is pulled out of the hat. According to this motto, these discussions are going wrong, and that is what I mean. I have commissioned the ROI study myself when I was at the Federal Theatres, Mrs Schmidt. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt talks with Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] I have to get your attention back. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) May I come back to your point ROI study? I commissioned them myself. We have implemented a large part of that, and if you quote it entirely, then you will find in it the fact that ROI says the current form of organisation of the Bundestheater Association considers it to be superior to other comparable forms of organization for economic reasons. I can also send you the page on which it stands. Believe me, I'll find them quickly. However, this does not change the fact that in many details, which does not mean that it has to make corrections, one will have and will also have. And it's a part of what you read about things that were very well under attack. This has also made possible this de facto stagnation of the budget, because one has realized savings. They will probably not be able to charge that in recent years we have returned to the artistic budgets, but of course the stagnation is due to the fact that we have done a great deal in the technical fields of reorganisation. As far as reading is concerned, I can only give you the right. Sometimes I get the impression that computing is the only cultural technique that is superior to everyone else, and that this should not be a distrust of the calculation itself, but of only special forms of invoices. As far as sponsors are concerned, I would like to say that I am not at all reluctant to do so. I did not deliberately deal with all these conspiracy theories in what I said here today. I think she's crazy. By the way, I think it is now too boring that they would not only hinder the debate that we have to hold, but would necessarily stop it. My appeal is that we should pay more attention to the interior structures of the various sectors. It was pointed out to the film. We are also discussing the structural issues of Austrian film, Austrian literature, theatre creation, smaller and larger stages here in the Cultural Committee! And let us not only free ourselves, but also those who want to make contributions to the discussion from these debates, that we are very dependent on the polemics of the heading. If Mrs Schmidt said earlier that she doubted the sensibility of the Raimund theatre in the context of the theatre financing, I can only give her the right. However, we are contractually bound, and I would be glad if we could get out of this narrow by an agreement with the city of Vienna, whereby Vienna would not have to lose these funds at all, but they could, as it were, be used more specifically. I offer you the following agreement: They help me bring out the Raimund Theatre, and I help you that women can also go to the Vienna Philharmonics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30617	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30638	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have been involved in the debate on education and school issues today with statements by some of the colleagues of the opposition parties, and perhaps only with them, should gain the impression that the Republic is right in front of an ostracized educational landscape. When you draw this picture, it's your responsibility – my access is not. If we are discussing current questions and challenges of education and education, we should also be aware of the strengths of this, and it is undisputed with the strengths of Austrian education and education that general education, as we are working on at compulsory schools and higher schools, is also an excellent position internationally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is one of the strengths of the Austrian education and training system that we combine a well-developed dual vocational training system for 46 percent of the sixteen to nineteen years with a very demanding vocational training and higher vocational training with full-time school matura. This combination, ladies and gentlemen, is unique throughout OECD! Dear friends! Ladies and gentlemen! With a Maturant ratio of 17 percent, the higher education schools have overtaken the AHS in this regard. The result is a similar low youth unemployment and a continuous increase in the level of qualification in training. While 25 years ago more than 50 percent of the working population had only one compulsory schooling, this percentage fell below one third. In France it is about 50, in Italy 74 percent. And it is also one of the strengths of the Austrian school and education system, ladies and gentlemen, that our Republic can rely on a dedicated teacher despite some prejudices. Ladies and gentlemen! Discussions in these days are currently updating some of the priorities with the teachers' colleagues. Due to the fact that we traditionally have a very centralistic school and education system in Austria, significant approaches to decentralisation have been made in recent years. Many of the contributions have today dealt with autonomy: School autonomy offers the opportunity to expand educational offers. School autonomy is an important contribution to reducing administrative costs in the school system. Autonomy promotes the commitment and willingness of teachers, including non-teachers at schools. Autonomy also activates parents and students to develop and implement common goals for schools. It benefits from the significantly increasing leadership, and the quality of our school boards strengthens the competition between schools and ultimately leads to improved career opportunities and relieves administrative processes. I think that this is an unacceptable reduction in the use and leaseability of schools and gymnasiums alone, Mrs Schaffenrath. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The focus of the current discussion of our educators is on the restructuring of the curriculum architecture, on a breakdown in core and expansion materials of our curriculums, on the completion of cultural techniques in terms of communication and entertainment electronics. A discussion is of course also taking place in the field of performance assessment. Of course, in our teachers' colleges, the question of a fair assessment of student benefits is also discussed on the basis of an ongoing observation of the development of the student, as are the questions of creating a framework for extending integration at secondary level I. It is about enabling integration, but also the emotional willingness to face up to this challenge. Furthermore, questions of seam problems, the school entrance phase, the ninth school year, the Polytechnic course 2000 are being discussed. Mr Oellinger obviously meant, out of a misunderstanding of the trade union self-understanding, that the teacher's guidance could not succeed and that the Federal Minister had delegated this task to the trade union. True is the opposite. Just because as a teacher trade union, we are not only interested in the social position, but also in the work environment as a whole, we have initiated this teacher's guidance, which is just now in progress, and we have invited the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Education to participate in it. The corresponding commitments are also available. In view of the fact that teachers have recently been entrusted with more educational tasks, which naturally change the occupational burden picture, we simply want to take concrete proposals to address the problem of dealing with children who are suffering from behavioural disorders seriously. Furthermore, because it is not enough that school partnership is institutionalized, we want to win parents for a living school partnership. Such a teacher's guide can, of course, contribute to this. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] If teaching is increasingly understood as a topic of interaction, then this must also be reflected in teacher education, and the additional tasks must be seen in a new light in the matter of teacher training and training. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand when some subjects in school and education are painted in black and white, but there is no reason for a black painting. I think that the concerns of education are in the best hands of Mrs Gehrer's Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If all of us – and all of us have understood this today – understand education as the parameter for a good future, then I also have the hope that in future we will assess school and education objectively and without prejudice. I would like to invite you all very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30741	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30762	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Perhaps you have two or three minutes left and wait because I also wanted to address the word to you; anyway, only very short, short and precise, because Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has already predicted a lot of what is a concern to me and to us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This will not prevent you from repeating it!]] That's right, Dr. Khol! You are right, it will not prevent me from once again stressing the important things and also giving the Minister of State a hint so that he can have a comprehensive, rounded picture of what the political groups in this House mean. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Repetitio est mater studiorum!]] Federal Minister! I have read the same thing again and again in the newspapers and everywhere, namely that the art budget gives the impression at first glance that it would not be shortened this year, that is, to be spared from the so-called consolidation or savings package. At first glance, this may seem to be the case – Mr Morak has described this here too, and Mrs Schmidt has also confirmed this impression – but this, ladies and gentlemen, is really just the first look. If you allow yourself to take a second look at the budget or to estimate it, then it is perfectly clear – and I repeat what my previous speaker said – that there is a de facto reduction in the art budget if it remains the same compared to the previous year, because inflation is eating money. However, especially in the arts and cultural budgets, these costs of inflation are clearly shifted to the artists and the cultural institutions. This means simply and simply less money, which is ultimately available for art and cultural production. And that's a reduction. The second aspect of why the art and cultural budget is shortened is the history – I repeat only briefly now – with the social insurance obligation for works contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this procedure, which Mr Social Minister Hums has chosen, is in principle correct. And I do not have to repeat what the Federal Minister has just said, because he is right in the core. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the arts and culture field, this social insurance obligation on the one hand means the positive aspect of social security for artists, but on the other hand clearly also a burden on artistic production, because this money is missing there. That is why the budget, namely the money available for cultural and art production, will be reduced and reduced in real terms. This is a reduction of the art budget, so sorry I do and so much I know, Minister of State, that you do not wish for it. A third aspect, which means that artists in reality also have less money at their disposal, is something you may not want to do, but unfortunately this is due to a request from the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Climate has recently been confirmed to the Greens, namely the concrete VAT requirement for artists when it comes to scholarships, prices and premiums. You have said the opposite here in Parliament, as far as I have been told, because I was not in the Committee on Culture, but unfortunately what the Federal Minister for Finance has written in the reply to the question is true. "Unfortunately" I say that because it leaves less resources for the artists. The Minister of Finance writes that, for example, scholarships, prizes or premiums granted on the basis of a call for tender and for a specific performance, for example for a specific literary project, are subject to VAT. Only prices granted by an artist for his previous activity or for his life's work or for his entire work are excluded from VAT. That is, if an artist receives 100 000 S or 200 000 S in the form of a prize or an award for his life's work, this is not taxable. Only: How many are those who get prices for their life's work? How many are these in relation to those who are awarded a scholarship, a price or a premium for a concrete performance? It is unfortunate, but it is a reality, Mr Federal Minister, that art and cultural artists in Austria are dependent on these scholarships, prices and premiums and have to live on them, because the art and cultural market in Austria is also so small. This means, in reality, that between 10 and 20 percent of this sum flow back to the Fiscus, so to speak, and restrict the income and basis of life of the artists. And this is also a reduction in the artistic and cultural budget. That's why – so sad for you and for all of us –: The art budget this year and next year is much smaller and smaller than in recent years. We were used to it – I have been observing it since the time I was working in the Ministry of Education – that this need for funding for the arts sector has been gradually implemented, but that is now the end. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day there are two comments which I do not need to make because they have already been mentioned here. One is the history with censorship in Austria and with this new censorship already mentioned by Heide Schmidt, that is, possible criminal persecution of artists and cultural creators in Austria. I mean the accusation of blasphemy to Hubsi Kramar, the author or director of a contract at the theatre of youth. I don't know if Mrs. Dr. Schmidt read about what it is about. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I didn't have enough time!]] There are only two sentences: The Vampire prayer to Count Dracula: "Dracula ours, who you sleep in the Sarge by daylight, be sanctified your name and hatred." Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, what is blasphemous about that? What's blasphemy about it? [[Abg. Dr. Brader: To ask such a thing is stupid!]] I share the view expressed by Mrs Schmidt that this § 188 of the Criminal Code is a censorship and presensurance measure for people who think. This has nothing to do with appreciation, that has nothing to do with what has perhaps been the original intention of this paragraph, namely to put the degradation of religious teachings under criminal law. What happened in recent years in connection with § 188 in Austria is censorship of spiritual products. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This is not only a writer, it is a cartoonist, it meets painters, and that is, ladies and gentlemen, a shame for Austria, where we are conscious of living in a country in which the freedom of art and culture is held high. The State Basic Law forbids censorship, but this case of Hubsi Kramar is clearly a centenary and thus an act against fundamental rights in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I have not heard or heard that the Federal Minister for Art would have said anything about it. He would have had the opportunity here today, but he also let this opportunity pass. I must say that I am extremely disappointed by him because, in connection with his work done in recent years in the field of art and culture in Austria, I have had great appreciation for his commitment and often also for his courage. But here he really misses every courage. However, I think it is a duty of an art minister in Austria to speak here, just as I thought it necessary to speak a clear word against the anti-art and cultural actions that have happened in the last weeks and days in Tyrol. This also applies to Mrs Gehrer, the Federal Minister, whom I would expect clear words, because it is also her area of business. If, in this country, the signals that go towards anti-culturalism are compact, then, ladies and gentlemen, we must take this seriously. For if houses burn, then it is not far, until people are also hurt, then this is a situation in which a spark can skip in the truest sense of the word. And if hatred or perhaps the helplessness of people goes so far as to burn and destroy symbols of understanding and confrontation with unknowns, that is a very threatening sign to me of the state of this Republic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] In the first opinion, the IG Kultur Österreich has written a sentence which I consider essential and meaningful. She wrote: "It started with drunk word crime in the inn, then works of art were destroyed. Now a hope space for living culture is symbolically murdered." This should give us reason to think, ladies and gentlemen, that should make us concerned and give rise to action. And last, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I can only repeat the ceterum censeo of my previous speakers and the confirmation by the Federal Minister that we women boycott the Vienna Philharmonic for so long until women sit inside. The Federal Minister would have the most effective weapon: Don't give them any more money, Mr. Federal Minister! Money rules the world, and money also governs the Vienna Philharmonic. It's not a pleasure, Mr. Federal Minister – perhaps that's what his employees are doing – whom he does to us women. If that's his understanding, just as he replicated on Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, I can only tell him: I don't want any grace, no mild deed from him who might be there. Instead, I would like him to act as Minister of Culture and Art. That's what he's asking. I don't want that from him, I ask him to do so, for that is his obligation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30853	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30875	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It seems to be an unfortunate coincidence, apparently even a pitfall, that the consolidation year, borne by a savings package, coincides with the "Year of Education", to which the year 1996 was declared. I can quite understand the displeasure of teachers and pedagogical leaders; I also know and regret that hardly a day is passing when there is no savings in education, savings among teachers and teachers. If Mr Preisinger said in her speech that SPÖ – in particular she mentioned the Chancellor – the youth needs the best training, the training of young people is the capital of the future, then she is absolutely right, and we are also standing on these statements. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I also agree with the fact that more or less money does not automatically result in a better or worse school. We could only make this experience too clear in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria we will still be able, and certainly in the future, to put on the table all our students almost free of charge schoolbooks, that we can continue to guarantee the almost free school trips that we have school students who do not need a European comparison. It is not the time to complain and lament here, but it would be more appropriate to accept this challenge and try to meet it. Ladies and gentlemen! In an honest and critical review of today's social situation, it must be recognized and perceived that the very rigid structures of our school life no longer correspond to the conditions of time – I mean the dynamics, the social and political change, whether it be EU accession, or East opening. I therefore believe that it is also a question of questioning these structures in schools, including those in schools. That this is already happening in the ministry, the Federal Minister has mentioned. In addition, if it were possible to have more money for it, it would be nice, but it would not be so, and I still hope that, with good will, we all achieve these goals by means of existing resources. But back to the social situation, ladies and gentlemen! We must note that children and young people are experiencing a different world today, growing up in conditions different from 10 or 15 years ago. The work of parents is constantly on the rise. That's what we want. That's what this society wants. This cannot be restrained either. A sad fact is that a third of the marriages will be divorced in Austria, a fact that has a dramatic impact on the children's existence. Many children are single children or children of single parents. The proven culture of co-existing in the family or in other communities has become rarer as a result, solitude has become more common. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This has become the rule!]] Regrettably. I take from a recent study by social psychologist Hurrelmann that more and more children are going badly or that more and more children are feeling bad. Let me address just three relatively important data from this study: Approximately one third of children and adolescents of one year of age are permanently suffering from headaches, stomach pain, dizziness or sleep disorders. At least 10 percent of all children are chronically ill. Allergy such as asthma, neurodermitis spreads like epidemic. But I also hear, ladies and gentlemen, that in our schools there is a complaint about aggression, about refusal and not rarely about failure on the part of the students. In addition, we also demand politicians, but also society and in particular parents, or at least expect the school to do much, much more, than teach, to teach as education. It has become natural to integrate schools, all day care is a daily requirement, the application of state-of-the-art forms of teaching and learning is expected, as is the placement of key qualifications, intervention in problems of alcohol or addiction, interventions in youth crime. – I don’t want to continue because everyone knows that anyway. So if there is a social problem, then the reputation is to be heard very quickly, the school should take care of it, and in fact it must be noted that the school is already part of a repair workshop of social problems. We must therefore be very careful and very careful not to overreact to our education, that our teachers do not actually resign. I do not agree with the words of thanks which have already been given to a number of previous speakers on the subject of the teaching debate to join the teachers for their work as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. If I have spoken at the beginning of my remarks of necessary structural changes, I mean that school structures should be made even more democratic, less hierarchical and therefore even more autonomous in the future. The Socialist Group of this House is considering and discussing with great intensity such structural improvements, whether they are structural improvements in the school entrance area, where the decision on lifelong learning is really based, where access to education, access to information is based, where performance behaviour can be built up, or whether they are structural changes in the field of school book action, teaching materials, in the field of performance assessment – that has already been addressed – or in the field of teacher education and training, in order to address only a few specific measures. Finally, I agree to extend the invitation to all political groups in the House, to discuss these structural changes with us and, as I have said, to accept the challenge of making the school with the existing resources in such a way as to continue to be a good school for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30932	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e30954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you follow the rumour exchange in the house, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are considered to be a diligent and also obedient spatial richer, who goes to work with Tyrolean consequence, along with Alemannian impact and extensive expertise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The requirements you had after a pensionist election campaign, where youth and educational aspects were not even secondary in importance, were and are not easy. If the former exemplary Austrian school system, which has been insignificantly slipped in the international comparison, combined with an image depth of the teachership and an empty emptiness in the state bag no longer to be denied, results in a very bad starting point for the educational aspects of the future – and for you, of course. The attested expertise which your teachers and, as a result, the voters may judge, has, for me, a vulnerability in the discussions on the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Federal Minister, and that is the exercise of the body. They do not know to a large extent how the savings package will have an impact on school sport education. They also have little idea of the gymnastic reality and the catastrophic state of our school youth in physical terms. As I was able to convince myself, you have little information about the impact of school autonomy on school sports facilities, with an existential situation here for many clubs, as I can still carry out. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! "In the countries of the third and fourth world, survival depends on the supply of food. In the industrialized countries, a decent survival depends on the management of leisure time." – We know this to be told by the thinkers of the Club of Rome. In the recent report of the Institute for Family Research from the Boltzmann Institute we find out: "The free time is more important to the boys than the family foundation. 58 percent of the 18- to 29-year-old men give more than 60 percent of sport, hobbies and vacation trips as their priority, and third place family start-ups." Another aspect: We learn from "Saver Leben" that the leisure accident costs in the year are to be 50 billion schilling. Sports has a high share of this area, the main reason for this is unprepared access to sport. The lack of exercise experience, the lack of a positive foundation for continuous sports activity for a lifetime has the cause of shortcomings in school education. Let's just look back: I was allowed to report yesterday on the Hickhack in the competence jungle of the sports industry of Austria. [[Abg. Grabner: Do you have any idea?]] ==References== Mr Ausserwinkler, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, reported: "We will ensure that the separation of the schools and sports departments does not neglect the important area of school sport" – now the pikanery is coming! – "in order that healthy children do not continue to come out of schools and many adults who are affected by movement disorders." [[Complaints with the liberals]] This was done by Mr Ausserwinkler in 1992. As his debut in the sports sector went out, we know enough. Mrs. Federal Minister! Of course, you have not yet succeeded, and you have not yet managed to address these concerns of your predecessor as far as the competence in the field of school sports is concerned. From the recent report of the Institute for Family Research, I was able to quote that the interest of our young people lies elsewhere, and if we take the "Kronen-Zeitung" mentioned today from the last Sunday with the title "Popmusik instead of Turnsaalmeef", here Mr. Weiss indicated how it is about sport as it is about school sports in Austria. "Austria hates sports" he overtitles provocative, but in detail he means, quite comprehensible: "Despite a rich tradition, sports has remained a marginal phenomenon in Austria for a long time and continues to fight mistrusts and prejudices. It is very bad about integration into Austrian education, in which sport does not go beyond a coffer existence." This is what sports scientist Otmar Weiss says, with which you can be pictured in the "Kronen-Zeitung" of Sunday on the same page. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No one's going to sports for you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For this, everyone goes in early board because of spinal damage!]] Of course, the vortex damage that the caller brings to the tapet is the real reason why sports doctors and sports scientists of the problem accept themselves at all. A threatening situation has arisen: By the way, 35 and more percent of the 12- and 13-year-old schoolchildren in Austria were identified in terms of positional damage and spinal curvatures. We have developed a liberal sport concept, which notes on the topic of school sport: School sport is fulfilling its contribution to public health in an unsatisfying form. The alarming reports on the general state of the body of Austria's school youth have several causes: First of all – here referred to as the main focus –: the unused preschool period. This cannot, of course, be claimed to the Federal Minister. The sports scientists know that the value of movement experience in early childhood – the three to five years old – is determinative for the whole life and offers the best possible approach. Secondly, the lack of professional sport education in the public school. What's it look like? Thousands of expensive sports teachers are on the street or are in foreign use, and the Mrs. Oberschulrat is doing in the Volksschule Ringelreigen. In the fields of full-childhood, the nine to twelve-year-old, it looks similar. The need for movement, particularly strong at this age stage, is completely unfulfilled. We know it takes the daily hours of sports. Of course, you are not wrong that education policy can not only be done with pavement and inclusion, but there is something like a quantity aspect in addition to the quality aspects you mention. There are traditional organizational models in school sports, which is another focus in our concept, and the mentioned gymnasium mief aspect, which was taken up by the mass media, speaks a clear language. Based on the reality of school education, you should know that in the upper levels of the AHS, only one third of students are already actively participating in gymnastics. And this is a fact that will be overlooked, which will be covered – who should make it transparent? The teacher himself will hardly do it, the parent club has too little relevant interest. So how are these numbers going to get to the surface? A model was remembered in the liberal sport concept, which means a complete turn away from the listed compulsory sports education to daily school sports on a tendency group basis. Imagine: three lessons, then about 40 minutes of break for sports, then another two to three lessons. In the sports unit, a wide-ranging free selection program is to be provided in a coducatively and without a class association at different locations. Club trainers, division experts would have added to the school gymnasium teachers. There are many comparable models in international space. Of course, implementation requires a certain degree of flexibility on the part of the school administration, but also flexibility on the part of the school administration in order to give schools this opportunity at all. The Pro-School Sport Initiative of the Sports Teachers has taken up these ideas we have presented at least in a model attempt after the short-term briefing-hour model experiment has been offered by your predecessor in the ministry to the schools, but it has not been taken over by them. So there was already a short-term model that, as I said, could not be implemented. This model, mentioned here with only two sentences, of a tendency group teaching, of a course course for a future school, has in fact only the disadvantage that it originates from a liberal spring and therefore hinders the implementation to be made impossible. Not from a liberal spring comes a letter from the Styrian councillor Gerhard Hirschmann, who wrote to you on 28 May. February reported: "In recent years, especially in recent months, yours" – your "Ministry of Thoughts" – has been used to remove charges from sports clubs and sports organisations for the use of federal gyms. In our opinion, the School Organisation Act as it stands does not permit the collection of such additional costs by autonomous federal schools." I have been confronted by the Federal Ministers in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It has answered me that it is in the autonomous area of schools that it is to ask for fees. I'd just like to tell you: If this is the case and so the clubs and sports organizations are asked to check out, that means the ruin for many sports clubs, for many sports organisations. The advanced time and also the absence of the adversaries forbid me to deal with the drawing mother of a left-wing verbal radicalism, Mrs. Stoisits, and her male counterpart, Mr. Cap, who suffers from the Haider syndrome – perhaps they hear me from their respective lunch places – but there will be another opportunity to deal with these rulers again. [[Abg. May. Hoppla!]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31051	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). May. Mühlbachler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31073	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to comment on what Mr Grollitsch has just said. I think you have to admit one thing: The school cannot be held responsible for all areas of youth life. If you show the high level of body damage to the young people on the one hand and at the same time show your finger to the school, I would like to tell you the following: First of all: There is, I think, a really good school sports department in the field of the Ministry of Education. Secondly, We have distributed really well equipped sports venues and gyms throughout Austria. However, one must say: They must also be used accordingly. Mr. Grollitsch, I will return to an ever-increasing Marotte of the FPÖ. Its particular concern is that funding – voluntary support – will definitely be halved. Do you not know that, for example, the many sports clubs benefit from these promotions that they would starve? – I think one thing: In particular, we need to promote the many sports clubs much more in order to cover what the school cannot cover. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As mayor, I have had a sad experience. It is required by the schoolkeeper that he equip classrooms. We're ready to do that, too. But what, do you think, is useful, for example, a expensive wack chair that serves to support the back muscles when facing a three to four-hour lumber on a couch in front of the TV? There we are powerless! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Completely right! That's a practitioner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take a brief look at Mrs Schaffenrath's speech. It has criticised the fact that the school system would be influenced by political propors. In school, Austrian democracy and the representation of the parties in society are certainly reflected, not a question. I cannot imagine that school could be run unpolitically. I cannot imagine that there are only liberals in the school's responsible bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, in Upper Austria – as in other federal states – we have an objectivation when ordering executive bodies... [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Example Mistelbach: 57 schools, 57 black ones!]] Mr. colleague, if 57 percent are Black Directors... [[Abg. May. Firminger: 57 directors, 57 blacks!]] Please, we have so many blacks in the rural areas. Should we hold back artificially? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if we have good people, they'll get to the train. [[Calls and calls to the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] But I can also tell you, Mr Commissioner, that I can take the example of Freistadt in this matter to the contrary. The most recent appointment of a primary school director documents this: A greener was appointed head of primary school, because the objectivization data had just spoken for him. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Why not?]] There was no tick at all for the representatives of the District School Council: He's been ordered and elected. Of course, Blue will also be appointed Directors with us, which is also true. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I don't have a problem with black directors, but not just black ones!]] However, it is necessary – and you must admit this – that the appropriate qualifications exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say one more thing. We know that the school has to make its contribution as part of the savings package. I believe, however, that teachers as a affected group have shown special discipline, not least because of the fact that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has had an objective discussion, and indeed many material discussions with the teachers. And that has shown effect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like more members of the government to have talks with those who are actually affected by cuts in the savings package. If this had happened, for example, in the field of the Ministry of Justice, the whole history around the District Courts would not have hit such waves. These talks have not yet taken place, they have not yet been agreed. Is there any wonder that there will be indignation then? Mrs. Federal Minister! They have documented in a bravourous and truly excellent way how to deal humanly with those involved in the savings package. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31201	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31223	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mühlbachler! As far as you are concerned, I can already imagine that party policy can be kept out of schools. But in practice it is still the case that post post post post after the propor – I did not say politics, but party politics, please do not misunderstand me! – be forgiven and not always according to the skills. [[Abg. Grossruck: He didn't say that!]] They bring out here as an example that a greener has been hired. Why not? Why not a Liberal, why not a Freeman? But it's not. It is still being recruited in many federal states according to the party book. However, I must say to Mrs Minister's honour: In Vorarlberg there is already a rethinking. [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a family spokesperson, I would like to focus briefly on those educational issues that affect school and family alike. I assume, Madam Minister, that you know our current school system very well and therefore also have knowledge of the problems that pupils and their parents have with them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The largest postmen in the Republic were staggers and fresheners!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: hunters without hunting success!]] I respect Your announcements, which you have repeatedly made – even today – that you can imagine structural changes taking place. However, these changes are not recognizable in the budget, as the federal templates 1996 and 1997 deal only with figures. The current state of affairs is, in any case, a completely dissatisfying situation as regards the recovery of family support and training. For the payment of family allowances to parents of children subject to compulsory schooling, the free movement of students and the amount of children's leave is currently linked to schooling and thus to the duration of schooling, and this is probably one of those, I would say, Husch-Fusch actions, which probably need to be corrected very quickly. Mrs. Minister! Have you ever considered how this should be regulated in the event of a school change or in the event of a class repetition? Mrs. Minister! Why did you not listen in time to your government partner's school speaker, Dr. Niederwieser, who made it quite clear in time – in the discussion that this savings package had been discussed – that a link between family support and school life is not possible and he makes a decision against it? Have you also considered how useful it is, for example, that commercial students... [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Mrs. Motter, that was a SPÖ proposal!]] Yes, a SPÖ proposal! Didn't you hear that? The SPÖ is your government partner! Why do you address bad proposals? [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: There can't be Niederweiser saying something else!]] You didn't respect it, you got through, and I think that's bad in this case. Have you also considered how useful it is, for example, for commercial students to be allowed to repeat a class twice within three years without losing family support, but commercial academic students only once within five years? And what happens when a student changes from the sixth class AHS to the trade academy and thus extends the school's duration by two years? How can it be assessed if, for example, after eight years of schooling a student has to move to the first class of trade academy and repeat this class? Does that still fall into general schooling? And can't this student repeat again in school? – I hope to be answered by you today and how you will solve these unexplained questions. It is also to be feared that even weaker students have the chance to look after them socially. It is known that the socially weak in our society cannot make it possible for their children to create some level of education at any later stage. It is known what a follow-up hour will cost, and it is also a fact that every year about a billion schillings will be implemented in the follow-up sector. My question is: Is this a targeting school policy? Apart from the cost to parents in this area, it is the children who are suffering from the pressure of our current school system. The increase in follow-up hours and repetition rates also speak an all too clear language. However, it would be appropriate to look for the guilt of the students. It is undoubtedly our current school system, which must be made responsible for it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, I cannot spare you the accusation that savings in this area have been made on the back of the children and the parents. They are totally unjust, and I hope that these injustices will be corrected. Mrs. Minister! Give our schools the autonomy you have often announced, and let our schools work in self responsibility for the benefit of our students! We Liberals are convinced that teachers in schools would contribute much more to the improvement of the entire school system through their own responsibility and the possibility of their own initiative if they did not have to act in the old-age corset. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now let me briefly turn to cultural matters. As evidenced by the Federal Budget 1995 and 1996, the Federal Museums, the National Library and the Federal Monument Office, the budget increased from 1,426 billion schilling to 1,631 billion, equivalent to an increase of 14 percent. We find that remarkable, and we are also very happy about it. It is also particularly noteworthy that after the last year's blatant cut from 204 to 109 million schillings, the Federal Office's operating budget has reached the level of 1994, which is exactly 197.4 million schillings. Last year, the federal museums were also among the great losers. All ten museums – i.e. the Art History and the Natural History Museum, the Museum of Art, the Austrian Gallery, the Albertina, the Museum of Applied Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Technical Museum, the Pathological-Anatomical Museum and the Austrian Theatre Museum – can expect a higher budget this year. Mrs. Minister! In a "standard" interview, they announced the introduction of a rubellos from the end of this year, whose proceeds will only benefit the museums. I would like to ask you: What does the concrete procedure look like? For example, have you already conducted negotiations – with the Lotto-Toto-Society, I suppose –? I would welcome successful negotiations because our museums need even more financial resources to continue to fulfil their function in the cultural landscape of Austria. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Let me ask you a few more questions. When will it finally be decided what happens to the Albertina? Is the old building now being renovated or is it still being built? As I know, the signature of the Minister of Economic Affairs is still missing. All other preparations, as is known, have been completed for over a year. When will air conditioning be installed in the Natural History Museum? When will the facades of the Art and Natural History Museum be renovated? Why is the National Library, which is at least Austria's largest library, closed for three weeks each year in September? Is that a holiday? If so, do all employees have to take vacations at the same time? Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly concerned about the partial rights of the federal museums. We know that the revenue of the museum shops may remain in the respective houses. Everything else, such as the proceeds of the tickets sold, goes to the financial office. Here again, my question: Wouldn't it be useful to extend the partial right to other components as well? I am thinking of gifts, sponsorship contracts, renting, catalogues and receipts from rental fees. In the medium term, however, the Liberal Forum's proposal would be to take a huge step forward. We could imagine that the Federal Museums are transformed into institutions with public law. As a result, the management of the museum could act like a private operator, but the right of access to the objects and the buildings would remain with the federal government. That is, the federal government remains the owner and rightholder of the property, the operational transactions are in the private leadership of the institution, the museum management would be reporting, and the supervisory duty would continue to lie with the federal government. Through the status of an institution of public law, the museum managers would also have the opportunity to retain rental fees and revenue, and could, if necessary, carry out a foreign resource acquisition. In other words, they could borrow loans, make loans or loans, and direct sponsors to the company. At present, 70 percent of all decisions concerning the museum are bound by the agreement of the Ministry of Finance. By setting up institutions of public law, Mrs Minister, the Ministries would retain their influence, since cooperation is essential. The officials would only be responsible for the following points: the establishment of the framework conditions, the fight for the budget and the monitoring of success. This reform would introduce operating structures which achieved the greatest success at the least effort. Finally, just a short while to the museum quarter. Ladies and gentlemen! What actually remained of the former project by Ortner & Ortner? Recently, the "profile" journalist Horst Christoph referred to the development history of the museum quarter as "Austria's largest entertainment theatre". In this context, I myself have spoken about "throwing" in a newspaper article – and it is a strangling. The fact is that this competition project has been continuously reduced. Nobody speaks of the tower today, and the architect has now been assigned to the monument protection specialist Manfred Wehdorn as a controller. Ladies and gentlemen! The museum quarter is the sad product of an Austrian prevention policy, because experts continuously left and left the sinking ship. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Even before the competition decision, the director of the Modern Art Museum, Dieter Ronte, threw the towel in 1989 and went to Germany. He saw no chance of moving into the museum palace in the foreseeable future. In 1994, Dieter Bogner, project manager of the Museum Quarter, resigned. At that time, his concept was a museum for the 21st century. To design the century, only on the edge. With the purchase of the more than two billion Schillings expensive collection of Klimt, Schiele and Gerstl, the ophthalmologist Rudolf Leopold became the most important man in the exhibition palace, whose demand for more space Hans Digand confirmed under the pseudonym "Aurelius". A question on this matter, too, Mrs Minister: Do you already have a definitive decision by the Chief of Monument Protection who does not feel bound to the positive decision of his advisory council? If not, until when is the decision to wait? It also surprises me why the director of the Museum of Modern Art, Lóránd Hegy, no longer speaks in this context. Is that really what it all was? Should the contemporary art of Austria remain largely on the track? – All the questions to be resolved, and I hope in this matter your support, Mrs Minister, because I would really like this museum prevention project to become an internationally recognized piece of Austrian cultural awareness. Mrs. Minister! Finally, I also have a request to you: Support the demand to stop giving public funds to the Philharmonic as long as they are not willing to record musicians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31342	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31364	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! In economically difficult times, it is not easy to find an understanding of art and culture. There is little acceptance for increasing cultural budgets. Nevertheless, in the past a number of remarkable successes have been achieved. I recall the novelle on the Film Promotion Act, the promotion of publishing, the copyright law Novelle, the promotion of cultural initiatives, the Austrian cultural service and so on. The cultural initiatives have developed into an invigorating part of Austrian contemporary culture over the past ten years. There is a very wide range – from regional importance to experimental art and cultural communication. Various initiatives have developed, which is also reflected in the promotion. The cultural initiatives have experienced a considerable expansion. I would also like to mention the Austrian cultural service, which has emerged as an important institution: for the school as a center for education and culture, for the mediating of contemporary art, for meeting cultural creators and not least for reducing regional disparities. The Austrian cultural service has developed an extensive service, and this at a minimum of bureaucratic effort, so that I think it needs to be continuously expanded, especially the dialogue events that are being offered. The majority of Austrian cultural policy, the lion's share of art and cultural promotion in Austria, is devoted to music and performing art, more than half of the total budget. Most of this is due to the large and medium-sized platforms, followed by the festivals, the orchestras and the concert organizers as well as the small stages. In other words, the focus of public cultural expenditure is clearly on promoting theaters, reproducing music and major festivals. So it is to be welcomed that culture has become a factor – both social and economic – so it is gratifying to note that the number of cultural events, theater performances, concerts, theatre groups has multiplied, but it must also be critical that the funding of reproduction is far above that of production in the funding and annual grants to institutions. However, the positive aspect should also be noted that the cultural budgets are rising rapidly, and that Austria has opened up to the level of comparable European cultural nations, at least as far as the public sector is concerned. In contrast to other European countries, we are almost completely lacking the private impulse, but almost completely private macenatism – apart from exceptions – is lacking, which could complement the public budgets. Allow me, Madam Minister, to say a few words on children's and young people's literature. Because the possibilities for artistic production and reception for children are low and because there are almost no possibilities for the acquisition of artistic skills and of knowledge of art outside the school, I would like to make a plea for reforming aesthetic education in schools. I mean not only increasing the number of hours spent on visual education or work education, but fundamental changes in content in view of the challenges posed by videos, video games and the other offers offered by the electronic entertainment industry. More than ever, cultural policy and also the school of aesthetics of video games and the new communication of electronic media have to turn. I welcome the development of literature and publishing. It has succeeded in significantly increasing the promotion of people, because it reaches a much larger number of people and because there is a wide variety of funding measures, such as dramatist scholarships, government scholarships, youth scholarships, project scholarships, work scholarships and so on. That is to say, it has been created in recent years a good infrastructure for art and culture. Cultural promotion really presents itself as a differentiated system of promotions and prices. And it was achieved economically for the existence of Austrian artists, especially the writer. Thus, in total, many things have changed to the positive in Austrian cultural policy, even if it is only the attitude towards Austrian artists. I am thinking, for example, of Thomas Bernhard or Hermann Nitsch, both artists of culture who have caused some excitement in the past. This excitement has at least now turned out to be a certain indifference, which may be seen as progress. Finally, allow me to say a few words about the current debate on the Stalingrad monument or the Volgograd monument. Some of you will ask: What does this have to do with cultural policy? What does this debate have to do with culture? What does this debate have to do with art and culture? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... our favourites already have something to do with culture!]] Yes, you are perfectly right, Mr Schwarzenberger! But I want to distinguish it a little bit. I think the debate on the place is irrelevant. It is important that the monument does not become a place of pilgrimage. I don't mean eternity. The explanation of the past would be bad enough, because heroic monuments often hold a sense that suggests false heroism, although it should only be a matter of respect for the dead. And there I go with you conforming: Respect for the dead who were sacrificed to a criminal ideology. This means that cultural work and cultural policy are also concerned with the fight against oblivion. It's about mourning. Theodor Adorno said: Hitler, in the face of their insecurity, forced a new categoric empire to set up their thinking and actions in such a way that Auschwitz did not repeat, nothing similar happened. Culture becomes barbaric when it suggests a healing world to Auschwitz. And culture, especially the theatre, can help to keep people unhappy consciousness. –Remembrance – that is what I mean now – which keeps the thought of the Holocaust, is cultural work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The unwholesome history – especially Auschwitz, a real place – marks a global disaster. She's a global disaster. Auschwitz not only stands for the many concentration and extermination camps of the National Socialists or for the war crimes of the following time – whether in Vietnam, Cambodia, Afghanistan or elsewhere – but also for the relativization of the terrible genocide of this century, because one cannot relativize the one-timeity of this perfect and industrially organized mass murder, the mass murder of millions of Jewish fellow citizens, but Auschwitz also stands a little for the people to lose the reason for the belief in history, that man is able to learn that history should teach anything or that people should not be seduced into inhumanity, but that in inhumanity sometimes the sense lies. Therefore, cultural policy can and must always ensure that man is shaken by his spiritual-soulish popularity, his indifference and his lethargy. Therefore, it is the task of cultural policy to resist – it is a pity that Mr Krüger is not here – to forget because it needs reflection and self-reflection, because it needs to be clarified, and because nothing gives us the right to assume that there is no return to what has once been.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31409	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31431	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear from the savings package or the tax package that the savings in the school sector are completely reduced to people with disabilities and to their school integration. If we have already managed in recent years to introduce school integration into the regular schools and gradually to the secondary level, this success will be brought to an end with this load package. It is clear that there should now be only more leftovers for disabled people in public schools. Disabled children only have the right to a place in a regular school if this place is taken by no one else. Our right to school integration will be agreed step by step again. Our right to education, our right to society and our right to be able to participate will also be taken away from us step by step in this area. Mrs. Minister! I don't know if you know the 1994 Salamancer Declaration. In this statement, which was prepared by UNESCO, it is quite clear where to go, what school integration means, and what framework conditions are needed for school integration. Austria is distanced from this paper with the load package. Austria is not willing to rethink just a little in the area of school. For Austria, it will continue to be a foreign word to take new paths in pedagogy for special needs, although Austria has also signed this paper. In recent decades, however, Austria has signed and never complied with many papers and charts for disabled people. The year of the disabled – in Austria, the disabled were marketed in a wide variety of, sometimes even in a very unsightly way – did not do anything in Austria either. The year of the disabled was past, and all the goals and confessions that were set for disabled people this year were forgotten after this year. Never again has any claim that has been made in this paper been raised by the Federal Government. Now we're in front of the dilemma. I believe that if integration does not take place at the latest in folk school, it cannot work at all in the world of work. This means that integration will be reversed. Mrs. Minister! I can well understand that in recent months you have never been there for disabled people or for parents of disabled children who wanted an appointment with you. You were never there! [[Federal Minister Gehrer: That is not true!]] That's right. I can prove this to you, too, Mrs. Minister. In the "profile" you, Mr Höchtl and Mr Helm, are a picture, and in the article you have clearly expressed your support for the withdrawal of school integration. I don't think you can turn that off. Mr Helm has clearly stated the intention of the ÖVP. Mr Helm said: Integration is something that has been shot out of the hip, school is not an experimental field, school must have clear frameworks, clear demands and clear goals, school must not hinder anyone. You did not mean, however, that the school should not hinder anyone due to his disability, but you and Mr Helm meant quite clearly that the school should not be hindered by disabled children! One is still afraid that when disabled children are integrated into a class, the level of learning in the whole class is falling. They have never looked at the studies and the writings available for school integration. All these documents clearly show that integration has been a huge step forward for all children and that it has brought something to all children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the integration classes, it was possible for the first time to cover the needs of all pupils, both the needs of disabled children and the needs of so-called highly gifted children. The individual gifts of all children could be promoted and benefits could also be demanded. But this is now being taken back. It shows in the federal states how it looks in terms of school integration. Mr Guggenberger! There are dedicated parents, committed teachers and a committed district school council in the country outside – I don't think I need to tell you that. There works school integration, there is no more apartheid. But in the neighbouring district, in Landeck, where you are responsible, a special school is built around 50 million schilling. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: But I'm not District School Council!]] Do you know how much integration with this money would be possible? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Have you considered, Mr Guggenberger, how many special school teachers do you think about how many accompanying staff you could work on this money? – These children have a right to regular school, but this is prevented. I would like to remind you again briefly: The right to regular school and the right to education are granted to disabled people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I urge you to create framework conditions that parents of disabled children no longer have to go home as beggars to find a school that grants their child the right to regular school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31499	Mr Brader has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31521	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to say something about Mrs Haidlmayr's comments later. I think that the draft budget presented is very good and that the creation of this draft, in agreement with those concerned, is a very important step and a proper path. The advantage lies in the fact that, despite structural measures, there is still enough room for further reforms, which I am already in contradiction with Mr Haidlmayr. One of these areas is the continuation of the integration of children with particular support needs at secondary level. Today, although the novels are not at the point of discussion, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to make some important and fundamental considerations. Firstly, we have no doubt that integrative care must remain possible for all those children in whom this form of teaching has proved successful. This is not so much an automatic issue, but only a question of where and in what form the education of the child can best be promoted. This means that the focus is not on any system, but only on the child alone, the child as a person with his unique individual situation and his untouchable educational claim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one will doubt the recognition of the educational claim, but there are certainly discussions about the institutional form in which the child can receive his best care. I can tell you from my own experience the following – I have initiated, cared for and also accompanied scientifically for ten years of integrative projects for children with hearing disabilities –: It is not true that every form of care is good for every child, it must be coordinated with the child concerned, and only if the need for support is well covered can progress be seen. Funding must be available. Competent people must carry out these promotions, and there must be no alibi treatment. However, pedagogical practice in some cities shows that support is carried out by persons who do not have the appropriate training or competence. Ladies and gentlemen! This is employment therapy for these people, but no help for the children. For such alibi treatments, I lack any understanding. That's not a solution! We need investment in training, we need people who make sure that the teaching material is prepared in such a way that it can also be taken up, processed and kept by the disabled children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A mere spatial gathering is not yet an integration. Man not only develops in the soot of others, but he has a right to a support adapted to his individual circumstances. Those who are in favour of integration, but who ignore the need for support, must be accused that they do not care about the children. Or worse. He must be accused of instrumentalising children for social policy purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to call on all of you today to refrain from ideological pitfalls during the forthcoming discussions on integration at secondary level. Think about the well-being of children and those measures that best help the child and his education. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I myself will certainly not agree to any measure in which I cannot see the success of education for the children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31603	Mrs Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31624	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the final trail is now beginning in the direction of witness. The last schoolwork is at the doorstep, and the trembling for a positive certificate has begun. Testimonies are still degree knives of the ability and performance of the individual students and can also have a motivating effect. But it is not always the case, for many children and young people fear a bad witness, with one or more not enough, in the foreground and not the motivation. As has already been mentioned several times by previous speakers of the opposition parties, I also believe that it is a waste of resources and time that the regulation of the rise into the next class is still being carried out in accordance with the principle of the foot-and-mouth principle. Although only one fifth is in the witness, it may be necessary to repeat the entire school year – even if all the other grades are positive. We all know, too, that the repetition of a class involves a rooting out of the usual social environment of the class community. This is a situation that certainly does not promote performance. I therefore also think that Mrs Gehrer's first accusation is very welcome to make the possibility of ascending with a lack of satisfaction no longer dependent on the decision of the class conference, but rather to bring a certain amount of automatic into this regulation. This would make the right to ascend more objective and above all more transparent. I make a further proposal, and I think that it is justified to raise pupils with one or two dissatisfactions. As important as these new legislations would be, I believe, would be accompanying pedagogical measures if there is a insufficient threat or evidence. It would be possible for the school to offer support and promotion courses over the summer with a view to a possible review in September. For example, it could start school earlier for vulnerable students. This measure would have the advantage of being taught by the usual class teacher and of preparing for the examination would be much more precise. In addition, remedial illness would be restricted, and millions of schilling would not have to flow in after-sales as every summer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a forward-looking performance assessment model, I see the so-called commented direct performance template, which is currently running in 13 Vienna public schools as a school attempt. The children do not receive a witness, but the services are documented in a collection folder. The parents can view this paper with worksheets, texts, workpieces, drawings, homework at any time. At least once per semester, they must sign this documentation compiled by the teacher. But that also means that there must be a conversation, a conversation between parents, teachers, and students. I believe that the inclusion of parents in performance assessment procedures is a very important step. I believe that this will allow for a realistic view of the achievements of their own offspring. A conversation between students, teachers and parents on the state of performance assessment takes place at least once per semester, involving all participants in school life. Women's and women's pupils Students are no longer left alone with the accusation of failure in the event of a bad assessment. I think it is very important for parents to see from the outset or at the earliest possible time, where there is a partial weakness and can do something about it in good time. That is why I think that this model would, of course in an adapted and age-appropriate form, also apply to the middle level. A review of various fine targets in each teaching subject, which is carried out together again by parents, teachers and students, increases the educational claim to teachers, but certainly creates more transparency and objectivity and could thus become an instrument for the motivation of our students. And that should be all our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very short time ago on the integration of the disabled, because Mr Haidlmayr and also my previous speaker spoke on this subject. I don't see the situation so negative. I believe that we have very dedicated teachers, that we have very dedicated parents and also very dedicated students, and that everyone benefits from the fact that, for that purpose, there are always enough investigations to do so, they never lose their intelligence when there is a need to spend more time in the short term for a little weaker. So I would be in favour of implementing this integration not only in primary school, but also in all school types creating opportunities for it. And that this is possible shows very positive examples. I can as examples the HTL and the HAK in the 3. ==References====External links== There for years disabled and unimpeded young people have been taught together in both the technical and commercial sectors. I think that we must promote the integration of children with special educational needs in primary and continuing secondary education, i.e. in primary and secondary education, and provide all accompanying measures. That must be our goal. Our education system must offer all young people an optimistic future perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31703	Mr Stampler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31724	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, an apologies for me: I am sorry that in my first speech here in the House I was snuggled and the vote was cast, but unfortunately one cannot choose the time of a flu. But I'll try to give the best anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: That's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: colleague, no problem! You understand very well!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Fresh – juicy – steirish!]] - Right, yes! Today's young people are the adults of tomorrow. The children are the future of our country. – Proverbs that we have heard today. Are these really just sayings? – No, I don’t think so, because the children of today will bear responsibility for us tomorrow. Therefore, it is for us politicians, parents, teachers and superiors to give them the necessary training. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This budget will help to secure the future of our children. The school certainly has the second most important importance for the personal development of each growing person. After the parents ’ home, therefore, the main responsibility for young people lies with the teachers and the school. Education in school is thus at the same time the basis for the knowledge of tomorrow. The foundation for the future of our country is laid in school. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They have contributed a lot to improving the reputation of the school. Mr Neugebauer mentioned in the Committee meeting that you had maintained a culture of discussion during the whole of the negotiations during this difficult period, and Mr Mühlbachler and Mr Höchtl today highlighted the partnership and negotiation. We teachers know that the training of our students must not be lacking through this savings package. But we also know that in you, Mrs Minister, we have a superior who is behind us teachers and who always brings us with the necessary motivating shift to go back to school with joy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The teachers have certainly made their contribution so far and will continue to do so in the future. New forms of teaching and learning have been introduced in the public schools. They have proved themselves well and are now expected to experience their continuation in secondary schools. In the area of integration, teachers have so far done excellent work. I have selected some data from a report by the Styrian Council of State Schools, which I would like to mention today. It increased the number of integration classes in the Styria from 104 in the school year 1993/94 to 200 in the school year 1995/96. Also during this time, the number of support classes rose from 119 to 291. But the number of classes without secondary teachers also increased enormously: from four in 1993/94 to 58 in the school year 1995/96. This shows that teachers bear responsibility and take them seriously – even if they do more work. In the school year 1995/96 10 699 pupils are taught socially inclusively in Styria. Of these, 9 297 are not disabled, and 1 402 have a special educational need. The number of pupils with funding needs is divided into 888 people with disabilities, 223 mentally handicapped, 67 persons with visual impairment, 66 persons with disabilities, 38 people with hearing disabilities and 27 people with behaviour. – This shows that we are doing a lot in Styria for integration, and I am sure that this will be the case in the next school years. The aim must be to continue this integration in secondary education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It should also be noted that during the observation period from 1980 to 1990, two significant but opposite developments were observed in Styria: While the level of education in the upper level of the AHS decreased by 18 percent, it rose by almost 53 percent in the higher education schools. This development is certainly a reflection of the ever-increasing attitude that specific vocational training with appropriate professional prospects should be preferred to general education. But also the primary schools offer an ever-increasing range that should be used by many students. Communities and schools must and will therefore be able to become more and more partners in the future. The Government's work agreement sets out key objectives for future education policy: to strengthen foreign language competence; accounting for foreign school visits; initial training should encourage lifelong learning; Long-term learning opportunities will increase the number of students; cooperation between vocational schools and polytechnic courses should be enhanced; improved career guidance, vocational orientation, reduction of class repetitions and jobs with new technologies are essential, as well as continuing secondary education – this must be ensured. The reduction in school hours is intended to help relieve pupils. This corresponds to an old demand from parents. It will be the responsibility of teachers to implement the core and enlargement areas and to comment more on them. Quality cannot be enhanced by continuous coming, but only strengthened by deepening. Education offensive must not be extended, but in terms of qualification. In my opinion, the aim of education policy must be to ensure first quality and to avoid second teacher unemployment. If we look at the 1996 and 1997 budgets – and I mention only two of them – we are pleased to note that the expenditure area is increasing by 19.87% between 1992 and 1997. Expenditure on teacher and educator training alone is rising by 20.42 percent. The magazine of the Teachers' Association in Styria I could see the following – under the title "Truly said": There is a marginally significant and unacceptable thing. There are diplomatically expressives and silences. There are strategically skilled and unskilled. There is information and secrecy. There is politics and truth. It is up to us politicians here in the House to be able to and should be able to stand side by side with politics and truth equally. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31809	Mrs Onodi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31831	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Culture and also learning are the urge that lies in all human beings to present his thoughts and concepts on one of the three levels: first, linguistic, second, musical, and third, in forms or graphic. All three levels are excellently represented in Austria. Art as a mental ability should bring joy and attention to other people. But since people are very different in the development of their mental abilities, there will also always be different views in art. Joy of art is probably the highest of these spiritual qualities, since art is nothing but the expression of man, a testimony to his already more or less developed spiritual abilities. Outwards, artificial products give a picture of feeling, thinking and acting. The more these proceed from purely material pleasure in the lotrings, the more complete works of art you will be able to create. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why financial support is absolutely necessary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, it is also possible to use the art products with every kind of sensuality. But then they will not give the visitor a high impression, but rather a repulsive one. But never will art products be attainable from the point of view of artistic value, unless there is the ability in the artist himself to swing into spiritual spheres, i.e. to look with a spiritual eye in order to create something. How he then uses the sight lies in his own free will. However, someone can only do something he sees in front of his spiritual eye. Where an image is located, there must be a spiritual original, and where a shadow is, there must be an object throwing the shadow. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, for the promotion of art and culture, we have only a certain limited pot of money. Of course, you can't do it right to all artists, because not all 100 percent can be promoted according to their ideas, even if this would be very desirable. The fact that there will always be discussions with regard to the award of promotions is probably in the nature of the matter, because all discussions would only end if all humans could develop the highest degree of their mental skills. All cultural institutions have their rights of existence, including the marginal groups, which are mostly strongly criticized by the media and other bodies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But culture is far more than these hostile groups. The language is maintained in literature, theatre, newspapers, books and schools. The music finds its expression in opera, concert halls, radio and television, of course also in the music schools, at all kinds of festivals and events. And the visual art shows itself not only in the sculptures and sculptures, but also in the excellent buildings of our country, in architecture, in the construction of public buildings of all kinds and so on. [[ÖVP representatives speak in the banking series.]] But culture also closes...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31879	Excuse me, I should like to draw attention to the fact that the honourable Members are very bravely fighting against the high noise level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31900	Ladies and gentlemen! Culture also includes the culture of conversation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31925	Now I apologize for interrupting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31957	You see, ladies and gentlemen, that we were much too limited in the concept of culture. Culture is more than evil criticism. Let's not get infected! If we have the magnificence of our culture in general and in particular always in mind, otherwise we will lose sight of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e31988	Mrs Tichy-Schreder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32009	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After culture, Mrs Onodi, I come to another area, which has been teaching us for a few days in several contributions. I am particularly pleased that the Coalition Agreement in the field of education is based on the fact that the promotion of education has been expressly defined in it. In the coming years it is high time to fill this verbal commitment with content, with appropriate measures, because the current development in the field of dual training, which envys us very many countries, gives cause for concern. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do they look like?]] In the last ten years, the number of apprentices and the number of apprenticeships has declined rapidly, by a quarter. In 1995, only 123 377 young people were in training in 40 359 farms. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are you not the chairman of the Economic Committee?]] In principle, the range of apprenticeships has a balanced balance, but with strong regional and vocational disparities. In Vienna, for example – this is how labour market service is expressed – a medium-sized disaster is to be addressed. At the end of March 452 job seekers came to 104 open apprenticeships in the Federal Capital. It is noted that an action has now been launched in Vienna, in which training is particularly promoted. One must observe this development – I am pleased that this joint action has come about – and one must also observe what comes out of a support action of this kind. The number of open apprenticeships in Austria reported to the labour market service has more than halved over the last five years, from around 28 116 jobs offered in June 1990 to 12 498 in the comparison month 1995. But where are the problems now? – On the one hand, in the development of education policy, which the teaching in competition with the other ways of training – often enough also expressed in the published opinion – falsely considers as subordinate. On the other hand, many companies of the financial effort – Austria’s companies spend at least 6 billion schillings annually for the training of their apprentices – as well as for the administrative mühsal – saying: the bureaucracy burden – has become too much. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who is responsible for this?]] A small example, Mr Haigermoser: For the highly successful electronic group ABB in the market, the constant expansion of vocational schooling, ladies and gentlemen, was with a reason to discontinue the training of apprentices. The cost of teaching – also in the national teaching workshops – has contributed to the decommissioning of teaching workshops. Before I come to my wishes for an upgrade to apprenticeship training, I would like to briefly address the reasons why the promotion of the dual training system seems so important to me. First: Finally, when talking about a wave of founders, about 50,000 new companies with new jobs, it should be noted that apprenticeship graduates are the main source of freshly created self-employed existence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] 52 percent of all self-employed in the industrial economy are graduates. Comparably modest 5 percent come from universities that have been talking so much lately. 88 percent of all skilled workers and 73 percent of pre-employees and masters are former apprentices. 87 percent of graduates also work in the private sector. They are also in demand in the labour market. Their length of residence in unemployment is well below the general average. Secondly, A functioning dual training system has so far also spared Austria from the scourge of youth unemployment. The unemployment rate for the under 25 years was 5.9% in the previous year, and the EU average was almost four times as high. – And yet it is necessary to also be alarmed in this area. In the first quarter of 1996, 12.9% were more young people without a job than a year ago. A value of more than 8 percent should shake us up and wake us up. Thirdly, It should not be underestimated that apprenticeship training takes place in accordance with market conditions. It is based on the highest level of efficiency, and apprenticeship is self-regulatory in the field of the labour market. Where employees are needed, they are trained. We also see that the quality of Austrian apprenticeship training is the world's peak: At the last apprenticeship solo in 1995 in Lyon France, 10 out of 17 red and white representatives won medals. In the relation participants and awards this means undisputed world peak: We're first! – And I warn against crushing this system! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Fourth – that seems particularly important to me –: Young people have different gifts. We place less and less emphasis on practical intelligence. I believe that the practical intelligence that exists should be promoted and not strangled by the craftsmanship of Europe in its quality. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What do the economy and we have to do for a bundle of measures? First: It is very important that we have a minimum training time in the company. Secondly, vocational schooling should be made more industry-oriented and flexible, and it should be strongly advised of an extension of vocational schooling. That's one of the points why companies no longer train apprentices. Furthermore, because we are talking about life-long learning, there should be opportunities to catch up later on and expand knowledge. Thirdly, A very important point is the creation of a professional and professional matura. It must not be possible for apprentice training to become an educational pedestal and a disadvantage to the AHS and BHS graduates. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – For this purpose, educational checks or educational vouchers are well suited. A fourth point is that we should also note that the financial discharge of teaching establishments must be pursued, and I would like to say that this is not the sole reason. It is also a matter of the financial relief of firms that train apprentices that their willingness to education may be taxed. Fifth point: Debureaucratisation in the employment of apprentices. We reduced the probation period from three months to two months; I would extend it to three months again. In some areas it is not always possible to see what an apprentice can in two months, one does not recognize the talent of the apprentice. One harms a young person if he is falsely trained in a profession if one then has to keep him for three years, although he has no talent for it. I think that's a crime for the youth. We should see that we also have this flexibility in this area, namely that young people are not bound to a false profession. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] All these measures result in an initiative that would help businesses to continue filling the slogan "Careers with Teaching" with training content of the highest quality.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32105	Mr Rada is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32126	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's in the folk mouth. All good things are three. Mrs Preisinger is likely to have thought so too, because for the third time she has given the same speech today almost the same speech. Their arguments, however, were not better. The quality of the school has nothing to do with quantity at all. And if today, for the third time, she regrets the need to save six hours in secondary school, save only and suffer quality, I must say: That's just not true! I am also entirely of your opinion, Mrs Federal Minister, that, as you have noted, not every requirement of society to the school has to be met with more than an hour to follow. And more money, as honourable Member Antoni said, does not automatically mean a better school. If we find today that our boys no longer play football because they have other interests, then we cannot react by simply putting more turn hours on the timetable. And if a child is a layman, the problems will not be solved by the fact that there are more German hours. On the contrary: Targeted methods have to be used – and this distinguishes school, which is the quality of the school! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The role of teachers is crucial, as honourable Members Ollinger said today. I fully agree. Whether the school is good will depend on how teachers are prepared, which teaching and learning methods they use, which teaching and teaching resources are provided to students. Whether a school has quality or not will also depend on how school management works – school supervision, school management. However, the number of teaching units is certainly not a measure of degree. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I agree with your remarks in committee and also today. Only: I do not agree with one thing: that schools are closed, with only students suffering. The media reported – the echo was a small one. The Ombudsman of the small-format daily has also brought together no more than the statement: Hick-hack. – In concrete terms, it is about closing the Higher Training Institute for the Health and Hospital Care of Caritas. After my personal search, there seem to be some inconsistencies, and I ask for information. Even in January 1995, this school form was applied by the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, as an innovative school form, and I can agree with it. Not only do the students acquire matura at the same time, but they also have a solid vocational training. Therefore, a lot of students have also registered, 30 of which have been finally admitted. The school began to operate properly in September. The units of value were allocated to teachers, the teachers were paid, the students had free rides and schoolbooks. There was some concern in September that the school experiment had not yet been duly approved. – This does not surprise a true teacher, because very often these modest permits come much later. But there was a calming opinion in which it was proposed that this school should no longer be a school attempt, but simply as a private school with its own organizational status. Parents, teachers, and school management, as a father told me, have stumbled on it with sect. The school was then continued in peace, it was controlled and found to be in order. ==References== In March, it was heard that you, Mrs Minister, had initially forbidden the management of this school orally, probably also in writing. I understand that from your point of view, when you may have come to terms with the fact that ministerial officials may have acted autonomously, I have made promises that you did not want to carry along. But it could also be that the Caritas have calculated differently as a schoolkeeper, perhaps highly poker, according to the motto: Let's build a school and wait. If it runs for half a year, there will be no one who will be able to close this school under the pressure of the parents. - She was closed. My lack of understanding is rather the fact that, from June onwards, the students will have to accept a closure of their school. They are promised that they will do everything they can to change to other HLAs, higher educational institutions. Only that seems to me to be a bit naughty, because there will hardly be enough places in September, so that these students can be converted into another, similarly stored school form. Therefore, I fear that most of them will lose a year of schooling and will have to start again with the first class of a vocational school. I see considerable economic damage in this. I also wonder why – perhaps it is employment therapy – when the school is banned by March, but until June the teachers are still paid, not immediately looking for an alternative. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am asking you to clarify these inconsistencies that may have happened in your ministry. I have a number of documents that make this happen. But far more important it seems to me to make your announcement, to seriously consider a solution, and to decide in the interest of the students so that they do not lose a year! And perhaps one could also consider the thought variant of letting out this school form in the interest of these students, but not in June 1996, but in June 2000, if this year normally were to end with Matura!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32200	The next speaker is Mrs Verena Dunst. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32224	Mr President. Minister! High house! The preparation of young people for educational and professional channels in the economic and labour world today and tomorrow is an important task of our education. The wide variety of vocational and educational opportunities and the increasing differentiation of educational and training routes and the rapidly changing economic circumstances require intensive and efficient guidance and guidance. The task of the school to prepare young people for working and working life is in the school organisation law or in the curriculums through the non-binding exercise "vocational orientation and vocational information" in the 7th and 8th. School level, through the subject of "vocational and practical vocational orientation" at the polytechnic course, further through the school event "Vocational Days" in the 8. School level and polytechnic course based on the principle of "preparation for the working and working world". Thus, the process of vocational guidance takes place from the 1st to the 4th. Class of compulsory school as a whole a valuable contribution to the development of personality and even to the development of ideas about the future. It is therefore intended to be based mainly on the interests, inclinations, skills, qualifications, needs and values of the students in teaching and thus to provide help in planning the future way of life. Personal experiences and experiences of young people with work are at the forefront and form links. The Coalition Agreement can be found in the following – I quote –: "In redesigning the curriculums, priority education should be taken into account in the areas of content, key qualifications and increased links to the fields of life and action. Improved career guidance, vocational orientation and employment with new technologies are necessary." Since the end of 1994, there is now a working group in the ministry, as you, Mrs Minister, certainly know, that a concept for anchoring a new vocational orientation in the field of 10 to 14 years old, which of course also needs to be accredited with the AHS. In the interest of the students, it would therefore be desirable for this concept to be put into practice as soon as possible. Allow me to make a few very personal comments: In my opinion, it is too late to start vocational orientation only in the last primary school classes, as is the current practice. It would have to take place at the latest from the 2nd century. Primary school and 2nd secondary school. AHS classes provide sufficient employment with professional fields, much more than before. In particular, the opportunity to interest girls early on in non-typical women's professions would be great. This situation shows us that it is only possible for women to find a job and keep it if they bring the necessary skills. When girls are willing to leave the traditional female professions, they also have more opportunities in their job search. A professional orientation project initiated by me at all the main schools of my district showed this very clearly. Allow me, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, to tell you that I really liked it – that your intentions come from the economic side, I am clear – that you said, among other things: Career with teaching – there must be more! "Career with teaching", which of course also includes the problem of lack of prestige. You know that exactly as I do. The person who sees a public recognition of his professional course will, of course, prefer to take this course. Unfortunately, however, we know that the skilled worker that the teaching itself does not necessarily enjoy high prestige. I can only say a little critical about economics in this respect. In the last 15 years, I have been very busy with the connection school and vocational orientation, say economy. Sometimes I was convinced that apprenticeship training is really important to entrepreneurs. It really happens there's a lot in the economy. Many entrepreneurs endeavor to do something out of the apprentices so to speak. But sometimes I was also disappointed when I saw that some economic operators, in my opinion, had too little investment in training, and I always, when it came to accommodation, found statements such as: An apprentice costs too much, he's too expensive, I don't think he's too long in vocational school and so on. At such moments, I must say, was not very warm about my heart in the direction of "Career with Teaching". I would ask you, too, to get out of your current situation... – That’s exactly what, honourable Members! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: The Chamber of Workers requires an extension of training! The economy is no longer taking it! - We need to talk to each other!]] I've already stressed it before: Prestige is good when well paid and you are well trained. Only then will you be prepared by the economy to pay well. But the training requires more and more, you know it. New technologies securely demand the economy enough in training. But it is precisely new technologies that require training to take longer. – But it is clear to me that we cannot now discuss this. Mrs. Minister! One word on you personally, too; we have already discussed this in the Committee on Budgets. I was a little disappointed about your statement on my question as to the projects in the field of vocational orientation. They meant: Please don't let anything extra come back! I am absolutely clear that this is not inside right now. But there is enough teaching principles, and you certainly know as well as I do, as one that comes from this area, that in practice these teaching principles must also be more received. And here I have the feeling – that is my personal opinion on it – that there is too little talk about vocational orientation in the compulsory school. Of course, the polytechnic course – and "Career with Teaching" and vocational orientation bring me to this topic – is of particular importance in this task. I do not want to miss out on this position of those dedicated teachers at the polytechnic courses that have the same problem as the apprentices – even they do not necessarily have the great prestige that is related to the vocational training – to say: It was great what you, ladies and gentlemen, have done in recent years! These teachers themselves most contributed to reforming this type of school, offering much of their free time for it. There is still much to be done in accordance with the Coalition Agreement. The reform "PL 2000" is on. Quality-enhancing strategies have also been developed in countries. With one word, quite simply put around: Something has to be done for the upgrading of the polytechnic course. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not accept this applause for myself, but for present students, but especially for the apprentices who previously attend the polytechnic course. [[Congratulations to a youth visitor at the gallery.]] Throughout Austria, 163 places with 410 classes under the title "PL 2000" are currently taking place. We also need to further develop these school attempts. However, it should also be noted that the concept of the social partners is designed to redesign vocational and educational orientation. I would just like to draw some attention to the paper of the social partners. The social partners – and I like this idea very much personally – say that the education of workers should, as it were, become the guide, with phase-by-step exchange of technical teachers. The non-binding exercise on vocational orientation and education information should be further developed, the social partners believe. In the context of school autonomy, Mrs Minister, the social partners say that it should be possible to place even more emphasis on practical education. For example, additional three to five project days per school would be a wish of the social partners, and I can do so. But it will also be necessary to make the training of practical teachers even more efficient. Mrs. Minister! You see, there's still a lot to do in this area. I believe that only a timely vocational orientation, hand-in-hand with an upgrading of the polytechnic course as a working class, ensures that young people make a good decision for the right profession, for qualified training and thus for an opportunity to have an adequate job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32278	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32299	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For many reasons apprenticeship training is currently in current discussion. The economy demands an immediate programme – we have just heard the discussion contribution of colleague Tichy-Schreder – with a number of demands that are perhaps more attractive for teaching firms, but certainly unattractive for apprentices. I think there will be the possibility at the given time to meet the demands of the economy with regard to the demands of workers and to work together to find useful solutions. I would, however, like to make your contribution, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, but I do not want to let it pass so easily. They have brought an example from the metal industry with a teaching workshop. I assume that you know that for a number of years in the metal industry, I have cared for almost all the large enterprises in my professional activity and have been looking after apprentices for many years. The example of ABB shows that the duration of vocational school and vocational schooling was not crucial for reducing the number of apprentices in this company and the closure of the teaching workshop, but in this firm it was especially crucial that a certain change in the value of the apprentice's position had occurred. I would also like to explain this to you. I can still remember discussions with the long-standing head of this company's training, who has always said: For us, it is important that we also train beyond the field of business, because the one who will leave the company with good training later on will probably be thinking back to the ABB for his entire professional life and there or there also make indirect advertising for our company. Unfortunately, today this attitude has lost its meaning. Today, only more is being trained for the company and for its own needs, and not because the vocational schooling period has been extended, but because only more costs and figures are put in the foreground. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that such a debate should also make a fundamental point on education policy in the field of vocational school. ==References== Novelle of the School Organisation Act 1994 the vocational schools were equated with higher schools. To date, however, vocational schools have not been given any new tasks. What has been added is that there or there a very successful pilot experiment has been started, for example in Vorarlberg. Mrs. Minister! I assume that this attempt has been reported to you. Last year, a preparatory course was organized by the Bludenz vocational school with the aim of motivating former apprentices to the Matura. In Vienna we have created a course for quality assurance in the professional school of the manufacturing technicians, so we also offer an additional educational content for the apprentices. In the electro-vocational school in Vienna, training in the field of photovoltaics was carried out on an installation which the apprentices themselves built under the guidance of their teachers, and at the same time processed accordingly from the construction to the start-up of this field of their training. These examples show that vocational schools could be made more usable by premises, teachers' capacity and knowledge resources. They could actually do more than they are currently allowed to do. I believe, therefore, that we should make every effort to give vocational schools the opportunity to offer further education beyond their own responsibilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can also say this with a sentence: They should have the right to make the most of their capacity in all areas. Vocational schools should be educational centres in our present age, this century that is about to end, just like other schools, as the universities in our country are already. Ladies and gentlemen! Schools also include teachers. And I think it's very good to deal with the situation of teachers too. We note again and again that there are difficulties with regard to the rights and opportunities that vocational school teachers have, for example, in cooperation with HTL teachers. For example, while vocational school teachers may teach teachers themselves at the vocational education academy, no pupils are taught at a higher technical school. There are, therefore, some disagreements that might be examined in a factual way even during this legislative period and which may try to achieve greater synergies in this respect. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Co-use in this area can only be fruitful and ultimately only serve the youth. Another point: For example, at an event of the Section for Commerce and Crafts in Lower Austria, a few days ago – I quote literally from a paper that was handed over to the event participants there – was required:... a transfer of general education from the vocational school, because this is compulsory schooling. – I think I agree with you, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, that our considerations should not go that far! I think we have a broad consensus on the fact that the vocational school also has the task of providing, in addition to the teaching of professional skills and knowledge, general training skills and knowledge. That is why I say that is not my position or our position when economic sectors set such extreme demands, namely the demand to remove general education from vocational schools, so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: This is also shortsighted!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On this occasion I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Gehrer for her statement, which she made this week's survey on "New Ways in Vocational Education and Training". Mrs. Federal Minister! They have been very committed to the subject of 'vocational matura', so I have been reported to me, and have spoken out for it and quoted it as an important issue. I think you should mention that too. This is also an important issue that we should address accordingly in the next few months. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have here the brochure "Ways to the Future – Technical and Commercial Schools in Austria". This is a brochure that young people receive before entering these schools. It describes very interestingly a general educational goal of this type of school. For example, this educational goal is described as follows – I quote –: The student should be able to observe processes and states in precise terms, recognize essentials and express facts in spoken and written German and in at least one foreign language, mathematical-natural symbolism and graphic representations. – I think this is an educational goal – and I could quote more – makes one clear and clear: This educational goal, which is formulated for 14-15 years in our Republic, which is written in a brochure of your ministry, should be our educational goal for those young people who do not visit this type of school, but who have to complete a teaching and attend a vocational school as accompanying instruction. But I wonder: If these are to be the objectives of the vocational school, how will the vocational school meet these objectives? . I do not think it can be done at the moment because the curriculum, and in particular the possibilities to teach general education subjects, are not sufficient; there is a need for action to be taken. In other words: 120 hours of English, political education only 80 hours, divided into up to four years of education, is not enough to provide apprentices with adequate general education. I think we have good reason to do everything we can to ensure that the apprentices also receive a sufficient supply of general education in the vocational school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the last aspect of this speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn once again to the situation of vocational school teachers. I would like to apologize if I go back a few years to light the situation. In the following eighties, in particular, Vienna's vocational school teachers suddenly found working conditions to be described as extremely positive. We had 5,000 pupils per week in the largest Austrian vocational school centre, namely in the Mollardgasse, and the proportion of foreign students increased by 25 percent. The problems of language, integration and the need for accompanying teachers arose. On this occasion, I think one should thank the teachers for doing so without any major problems at the time, and I would like to thank, from this point of view, in particular, Vienna's vocational school teachers very much for not asking: How do I do that? but that they have accepted these challenges! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was in the late 1980s. – In autumn 1991 – especially in this vocational school, which I know very well, because I am a graduate of this vocational school – the situation suddenly worsened. School conflicts increased, especially between countries and foreigners. There were lubrication actions on the toilets with hook crosses and various slogans. And it may be a coincidence – or not –: These changed behaviours coincided with the election campaign in Vienna, which was at the time characterized by a certain polarization in connection with foreign employment and with the foreigners in our country. The sad highlight of this debate and this situation was October 1994. In October 1994 a vocational school teacher was suspended because of advances against paragraph 3 of the Prohibition Act. At that time, this circumstance was registered in some newspapers. ==References== The title "Teacher in the Suspect of Nazi Propaganda" was found in October 1994. "Principal statements" – I quote from this "Kurier" article – "Many students should have made Richard R., who is supposed to be in a close relationship with the FPÖ, the following comments: The gas chambers in the Dachau concentration camp were only installed after 1945. The movie "Schindler's List" is a feature film, it does not correspond to reality." ==References====External links== October: The right teacher had explained his scandalous theses several times to the first-class electrotechnical students in laboratory teaching. For the mass destruction of the Jews in the Third Reich there was no evidence, he said. The "standard" wrote in these days about the suspension of this teacher or about the accusations raised against him by students. Meanwhile, the press speaker of the Freedom Party, Westenthaler, also noted that this teacher R. is not a FPÖ member, as documented in these newspapers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In newspapers you can't "document" anything you should know!]] ==References====External links== October 1994 – and I think it's not bad to document it all once, and I'm going to say why it's up-to-date right now – wrote: "As far away as Westenthaler thinks, R. der FPÖ should not stand. After all, the suspended pedagogue regularly honors the main tables of the FPÖ Guntramsdorf. With at the table Otto Rosskopf, whose “comradeship Prince Eugen” once brought the piece of art to be excluded from the comradeship covenant for legal burden.” Why am I telling you that? Why do I remember these press releases and press releases, very much revered Ladies and gentlemen? - Because in a consultation on 4 May, the Commission decided to grant the aid. In October 1994 this professional school teacher made it clear to the Vienna City School Council – and this is also documented – that he was partygoers of Dr. Haider, and he spoke about the Swiss model of democracy in the sense of the statements of his party observer Dr. Haider. I think it is clearly documented that there is a connection that is unfortunate. ==References====External links== In May 1996, the main proceedings against this teacher, Mr R. R., were initiated before the Landesgericht in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we will never have to experience in our country such procedures as these, which I have now quoted, that such procedures in our country will never have to be used again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32384	There are no further statements of words on the advisory part of education and art. I therefore conclude this debate. Health Chapter 17: Health and consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32411	We are entering into the negotiation of the area of health. Mr Pumberger spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32436	Mr President. My dear women Federal ministers! High house! In the last few days we have heard a lot about how well it is ordered about the situation in Austria. The Socialists have told us that Austria's economic location is well established, and we have been able to learn that jobs are secure. Mr Koppler – today he is probably in the beautiful sun outside – has informed us that he has created 80 000 jobs and has reduced only 10,000 in the state-owned industry. So we've been able to hear loud reports of success in the last few days. A similar, but not less important, success report was heard by the Federal Minister for Health and Consumer Protection, namely that the reform of the financing of the health care system is a century reform, a reform which has never been the case before. Mrs. Federal Minister! You yourself have said that this introduction of performance-oriented health care facilities will not save any schilling. In fact, you have failed to carry out the accompanying structural reforms, and I am therefore telling you here from the speaker's desk quite stoned and clear: This reform is ineffective before it has been decided! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This reform is nothing but a key to labeling, because we have always talked about the fact that we want to introduce the performance-oriented – and I emphasize the word "performance" – hospital funding. What comes now is a purely diagnostically oriented financing. Approximately 1,400 diagnostics are summarized in an ICD code. The model in Vorarlberg has already shown us that there will or will already be up to 60 percent miscodes. There men are removed the ovaries, where women are operated out the prostate. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] All of this can be seen in the doctor's letters, because miscodes are on the agenda. These 1,400 diagnostics are completely inconspicuous for the gymnastics who perform these encodings, and we will experience there a Tohuwabohu that will look for the same. We therefore call for a long time ago to collect these diagnostics, to reduce them to approximately 250, and that funding should be done, not primarily after diagnosis, but after the performance that is provided in the hospital. If you, Mrs Bundesminister, say in an answer to a question that the introduction of the service-oriented health care fund itself does not bring cost savings in the health care sector, then you are perfectly right, I must congratulate you. But then I'll ask you: Why have you not carried out the changes that have been propagated and promised for 17 years – especially in the extra-mural area – and indeed quite the contrary, they to the present day – and, as I know, will it be blocked in the coming ones? Mrs. Federal Minister! The model Vorarlberg is mentioned again and again. It is already apparent that no additional increase in hospital costs has occurred, even a reduction in the increase – not the reduction of hospital costs, well-noted! – i.e. a 2 percent reduction in hospital costs, which I also found in Vorarlberg, not least, that very many patients were transferred to the Landeskrankenhaus Innsbruck: Cheap, expensive treatments are now being carried out in the federal state of Tyrol. This saves Vorarlberg a lot, and that could be exactly this 2%. Even in Vorarlberg the structural changes have not yet taken hold. That is why I believe that even in Vorarlberg, although I welcome the fact that Vorarlberg was a pioneer, it has not yet been shown that there will really be savings. Savings are only through structural measures, through structural reforms – but where have they remained? . I cannot see any measure that contributes to slowing the unbridled migration of the Austrian patients to the hospital. On the contrary: The established doctors are inundated with economic guidelines, guidelines that make working with the patient and treating the patient more and more difficult in free practice. As the principal medical permits and permits are severely extended, restrictions and criminal threats are introduced. There's going to be some kind of doctor thinking: Why am I doing that? It's a mistake, I'm sending a slightly more difficult case to the hospital, then I don't have to expect any sanctions from the health insurance company! This is so far as the Austrian Chamber of Physicians, in a circular letter to all established doctors, calls for the open boycott of these economic guidelines, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer talks to a civil servant.]] Mrs Doctor, although you may give me your attention briefly, you are also directly affected by matter in the Ministry and may at times be able to exert a positive influence on Mrs Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps both of you will lend me the ear that would make future work in Austrian healthcare much easier for you too. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Four ears are too much for the Pumberger, two are enough!]] So the Austrian doctor's chamber calls for an open boycott. She writes to the doctors: Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Colleague! Treat your patients as before: primarily for their good and, of course, for economic reasons. Should the health insurance institutions try, although the principle of the effectiveness of these directives is the subject of a legal dispute, the failure to comply with the directives should lead to a legal or financial disadvantage on the part of individual doctors, it shall be granted legal aid by the Board of Directors. So the board of doctors goes so far as to call on the doctors not to observe the guidelines and continue the treatment of patients as before. I welcome this call to the doctors, because the well-being and recovery of our patients takes precedence – not the recovery of the finances, the maroden, administratively bloated compulsory illness phone. They should reform themselves before they reorganize their budget on the back of the patients! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This regulation, which has now been adopted and which is unconstitutional in some parts – because the constitutional requirements for it have not yet been created – has already been strongly resisted. Instead of a KRAZAF, nine KRAZAFs are newly established, a ninefold administrative burden, nine times bureaucracy, and there are nine autonomous national funds. The countries should therefore finance their hospitals free of charge, without prejudice to the federal government, with the resources available to them from this fund. But – and now the But, the unconstitutional But –: According to a rule without a constitutional background, the federal government now has the possibility, by means of the federally binding health care plan and large-scale equipment plan, to prescribe the countries in which peripheral hospitals must close which departments, which hospitals they must close and which large devices come to. This is unconstitutional insofar as Article 12 of the Federal Constitutional Act clearly states that the legislation on the principles is federal; The national case is the adoption of implementing laws and the enforcement in these matters. – That is why this contradiction has been made quite clear. Even the 3 billion schilling, which finance ministers have promised the federal states, will not cause any state politician to close a department or hospital in the periphery in their federal state at the order of the federal government, because the infrastructural change, the burden and the working situation, the supply of the local patients will be much more important to him than the few million schilling he will get from the Ministry of Finance to compensate for it. That is why this regulation, which has been adopted there, cannot be applied from the outset without a constitutional change. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The liaison office of the federal states has already pointed out this. When you, Mrs. Federal Minister, wanted to insert § 10a in the Hospital Law a year ago – that is, the one that says that the Bundes-Krankenanstaltenplan should have priority before the LandesKrankenanstaltenplan – you were immediately removed, because you could not enforce yourself. At the time, they should have noticed how strong the resistance of the federal states will be if they are prescribed by the federal side – where one often has no idea how to provide the care of patients – where and what treatment is being made in which hospital. It would have been a great failure – and this is a long-standing demand of the liberals – for us to establish a single federal fund, a fund in which all the funds necessary for the financing of the hospitals are merged, and from this fund the national funds will be fed. We liberals do not stand by themselves with this demand. I have here a new model of hospital financing, published by Dr. Erwin Rasinger, 8. May 1995, not even a year old. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good man! A very good man! That's really an expert!]] That's what it says: A federal fund for the remuneration and structural improvement of the hospital system is to be set up. Funds are available for federal funds and social security contributions. Dear colleague Rasinger! We again have an opinion – as in many other points – but unfortunately, when it comes to implementation, decision making, the health policyists of the EIAP have closed their doors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] - Rasinger, save your calls, you'll come to the speaker's desk anyway. You've already fallen by the group practice law. Today I intend to put forward a motion for a resolution on group practice law. The Constitutional Court has now repealed in the Medical Law the provision that doctors, as the only professional group in the professions, are not allowed to establish employment companies and it would be a period of time until 1. ==References====External links== But now the performance-oriented health care fund is already on 1st. To be expected or already fixed. That is why we need this structural measure before now. We already need the possibility that the doctors can join together in community practice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your President, Mr Neumann, Mr Rasinger, who is also very close to you in party politics – he is not mine, he is your President, a party political person – asks you: [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: He's yours too!]] Now it is no longer necessary to delay group practices! I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution in order to ensure that the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection has already met on 30 June. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== June this law can be passed, which allows for the introduction of group practices at last – after many, many years. [[Quoted print version removed]] I also ask my dear colleagues to influence a puppet-like Member of the Government Party that this law, which is in all our interests, will finally come true.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32579	Deputies! You know that you cannot call your colleagues "marionette-like Members"!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32609	I did not deliberately say "marionettes", but "marionettes" and I believe that this is still acceptable in view of the situation we have today. My dear doctors of the Grand Coalition – Mrs. Pittermann, colleague Rasinger, colleague Leiner, and as you all call it: If you have anything to do with your medical activity if you have not given your hippocratic oath, which we all have done, to this Parliament, I think it is essential for you to give your consent to this motion for a resolution. Other structural measures, Mrs Federal Minister! What about the day-to-day surgery, what about the day-care clinics? Now the news flatts to me that the service-oriented health care services cover only the KRAZAF hospitals and the daily clinics, the day-to-day surgery and the sanatoriums are excluded. – How do you imagine that? A whole branch, namely the private sector, which contributes to the medical care of the population and which also contributes significantly to saving public health, is excluded from this innovation in the socialist sense. That's really scandalous! – Mr Guggenberger, you do not have to shake your head! That's scandalous! We already know: For example, if a BID operation is classified in the LKF with 23 000 S, today private anatories are already offering this operation by 15 000 S because they can calculate performance-oriented. So you save 25 percent on one and the same surgery, one and the same disease when you have it performed in private anatories, day surgery, day clinics! But you just take these out, because you don't want to have anything to do with private medicine! They followed the path of Bruno Kreisky, whose goal was always to bring about an absolute, total nationalization of health care. But there you will encounter our bitter resistance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I propose a second motion for a resolution calling for day-to-day surgery, day-care clinics and sanatoriums to be able to calculate performance in the same way as the KRAZAF hospitals or the public hospitals. [[Quoted print version removed]] I also hope that the support at least of colleagues from the EIA, who have told me that all five motions for resolutions - Mr Rasinger and Mr Leiner - can be accepted in substance. But unfortunately you are in the corset with the SPÖ. You can't go out, you're tied up, you're shoved in, Rasinger! Just as you put in a child's wrong hand, you got yourself in here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You cannot go forth, you must act against better knowledge and conscience. Your hippocratic oath is really hanging out on the wardrobe! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's what we've done!]] But maybe I'm still feeling a surprise today. Perhaps you have still convinced your club colleagues because, according to President Fischer, they are not puppets, and therefore they are certainly willing to share this important concern of health policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point, Mrs Bundesminister, is the development of preventive medicine. All five political groups have always agreed - in all committee meetings, in personal discussions - that the precautionary medicine, the preventive medicine, is particularly important, as one can save in the curative care of our patients, it has always said. And then what is really the case? Mrs. Federal Minister! In the 1995 budget, you have not even used up the few, very sparse means of prevention! You haven't even used 49 million schilling for the precautionary medicine at all! You left that in the budget and said: The people in Austria don't need any precautions anyway. Now you have also consented to the removal of the birth allowance because you do not seem to have any importance for the mother-child passport and the maintenance of the complete care of infants and infants. You also agreed, and much more. They are also not seeking to expand the precautionary examinations. They are not seeking to expand vaccination in Austria. In the case of measles vaccination, for example, our vaccination rate is below that of Uganda. Imagine that! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Idi Amin left everyone immunized before he killed them!]] Mr Rasinger! You're amazed, aren't you? Our vaccination rate at Masern is below that of Uganda! So far we're already with our "precautional medicine". The 1996 budget has saved 50 million schillings. 50 million schilling! Mr Rasinger is sitting in the back and probably does not hear much so clearly, I think. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Otherwise, he would surely get his depression – which, as he said, he would get in the politics of the Federal Minister Krammer – in an even stronger form if he heard all this clearly, which comes from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The budget says and writes 25 percent cuts for the year 1996, Mrs. Federal Minister. A quarter less for the budget "precaution", and you're talking about expanding precautionary care! On TV, on radio, in newspapers, I always think I have a completely different person in front of me. But reality looks quite different. You're very nice, and I'm going to be very good with you, but you have a health policy. They simply don't have the insight and neither the power to put themselves through. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I'm too shy!]] I think it would be a mistake if you went back to Burgenland as a councillor, but I have heard that the head of state does not want you so much at all. That's why, at the request of Vrannitzky and his wife, whose best friend you are, you will receive as a Minister of Health. – A bad luck for Austrian health policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (to Federal Minister Dr. Krammer) Do you also play golf?]] With the precautions it looks really bad. And when I discover a little bit of a smile in the ranks here, I have managed to bring such a serious topic so that one can connect a certain sarcasm with it. But the subject of precautionary care is an extremely important one. What have you, Mrs Federal Minister, done in terms of prevention in recent weeks when it came to the fact that all of Europe, the population not only feared Britain, but all of Europe, to get a disease that has hardly been known so far? A disease with which all renowned scientists – from Professor Roberts, the most renowned neuropathologist in the United Kingdom, to microbiologist Professor Lacy from Great Britain and neuropathologist Tomlinson in Berlin – now agree that they, namely Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, are now increasing in humans, much stronger than before the occurrence of BSE. This disease is most likely to be directly related to the occurrence of bovine insanity. And it's also very likely... [[Abg. May. Firlinger is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Krammer.]] – Haven You may be able to look for a little later for the discussion with the Federal Minister, Mr Firlinger? This is also one of the concerns of Mr Neisser, who has already said that the ministers should not be blocked during the debates. If you were acting in the sense of Professor Neisser, you would... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why is the Firlinger so pushing in the ranch?]] You don't come home soon either, because I need a little longer if you continue there... [[Abg. May. Firlinger: (on the way to his place) This is a grave threat.]] You didn't say anything about this Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease at all, Mrs. Minister. They – quite the contrary – stood in front of running cameras and consumed beef... [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That was good! Good Austrian quality!]] Yes, there have also been parts of spinal cord on it, as far as I could see it, and brain components of cattle. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I also ate!]] I don't know if this was clearly Austrian cattle. I trust in the production of the Austrian farmers, but I am not quite sure of what you are doing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But to make the connex to medicine: What have you done, in contrast to your predecessor, who has already pointed out that substances from cattle are contained in certain medicines, medicines that are also produced in the UK? [[Abg. May. Stadler: But he does not kiss oxen – like the woman ministers!]] Well, the saliva is like that. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer.]] There are medicines, insulin, CR-insuline from the bovine, "R" for cattle, for example, there is the Novo-lent still on the market. There are ointments made from calf's blood, which are applied to open wounds. There are heparins made of beef. It has already been decided in 1994 that parts of these substances will be banned in Austria. In my opinion, the Federal Minister has not at all addressed this serious situation of possible contamination by contaminated medicinal products. It has not asked my knowledge at all in the pharmaceutical industry, which preparations contain which substances. This is obviously completely indifferent to her. Your job, Mrs. Federal Minister, is to eat British beef in front of the TV camera – if possible – as your former colleague Fischler. He says his favorite food is the British steak and not the Austrian one, and you get into the same horn. They contribute to a further decline in sales markets for Austrian cattle farmers producing high-quality, good products. I am also incomprehensible that yesterday, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in the main committee, the representatives of the EIAP farmers did not agree to a compensation for the damage that farmers are now suffering from this collapse on the beef market, a compensation requested by Mrs Aumayr. They also don't care if the farmers can feed the animals because they can't sell them anyway. They obviously don't care about this, but they're going to get the bill presented for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But back to precautionary care; it's really a concern to me. My colleagues, Rasinger and Leiner, have already said this: at last a part of the tobacco tax is binding on the purpose! Today I have received a press release from Social Minister Hums: The purpose of the tobacco tax. - It's very important! We liberals have been demanding this for a long time, and you have always rejected it. Tobacco damages health. Smokers are to be used more and more, but not by additional taxes, not by additional increases in cigarette prices, but by the existing tobacco tax, which the new tax package brings in additional 2.5 billion schilling, is to be committed to at least 1 to 2 billion schilling for health. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Bravo!]] I am particularly pleased that I too have come to the agreement of the Federal Minister. – Alone, I lack faith. When it comes to enforcement in committee, I will again experience quite different things. I am also pleased that the addiction law should be dealt with in the Committee on Health and not in the Committee on Justice, because in this respect I find very significant figures in the budget. I find the horrifying figures in the budget for the fight against drug abuse, where we all know that drug use is rising significantly – 20, 30, 40 percent increase per year! – that more and more young people die from the effects of drug use, that 13 or 14 years of drug deaths die, that parents are desperate, because already in front of the schools intoxication is distributed. We need more resources to combat drug abuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the budget, a reduction in resources is planned instead. This is a paradox of the same kind, Mrs. Federal Minister! On the one hand, we cannot always talk about the great danger – every day we read in the newspaper about new heroinians who are caught, about the drug mafia that makes billions of businesses in Austria, and how many young people are already poisoned with Ecstasy and with hard drugs and are dependent on it – and on the other hand, we can cut the funds. That's where we need more resources. But you don't even defend yourself. The Minister of Finance says that we have to reorganise our budget and simply take something away from the resources for the fight against drug abuse, because this is not so important anyway, the EU should do so. Now the boundaries are open, now dealers can pass the borders without control. And then in this law – that's really bad – stands that those dealers who are so hard to violate the law – and almost all the addicts are dealers, because they earn the money through the deal that they can buy themselves drugs – that they have to take out an absolute sentence for up to three years, just to say: I am now going to a psychological care to a psychologist, who should give me a few hours!, and then you yourself turn a judgment of three years of absolute imprisonment into a conditional sentence. That can't be in the sense of the ÖVP! If You agree, then you have lost all credibility! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, hundreds of thousands, perhaps even two to three million Austrians, who need psychotropic substances for their health, patients who take psychotropic substances on medical care are stamped correctly, and stigmatized by declaring these psychotropic substances to be addictive substances. It's a horrific thing! That can't be in the mind of the legislator! What do people in the ministry think when they work out such laws? There are 45 000 ministerial officials, and if so many work together, nothing will come of it! 45 000 ministerial officials for our ministries, which ensure that such unwise laws are presented here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] An old theme of mine – I can't say it often enough! – is the miscarriage of our Marods and sick health insurance companies. We have to expect 3,6 billion schillings in 1996. So high is the new deficit of our social health insurance! It's probably going to be 4 billion schilling. I'm sorry about the health insurances. You have two options: Because they don't have to fear competition – there's no competition for legal health insurance, they have it very easily – they say: If I don't deal with the money I have available, I'll either increase the contributions or I'll shorten the performance for the patients, for the forced insured. These two possibilities have always been open to compulsory health insurance, thus rehabilitating their budget. They have not been stopped from dismantling their administration apparatus or perhaps even in their marble palaces – in Upper Austria, the Landeskrankenkassasse has built a new marble palace by 290 million Schilling – to abandon their standard of reducing their personal comforts in their offices. That would be a useful thing once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If legal social security schemes say that they are the most effective system in Austria at all that they are far superior to private health insurance, they work economically and have a slim administrative system, then I must say: Then they don't have to fear the competition! Especially then, they must be glad that they can finally prove to them how effective and economically they work in the free market – and that will confirm it to them. They should be pushing into the free market and insisting that the Austrian patients should be given the opportunity to insure themselves privately in the form of private social insurance, because then they will have the proof on the free market: That's how good we are! The others have no chance at all! The private insurance companies must lock everyone up again because the legal person is so good. – But it will, I think, be different! [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] But go, my colleague! In the "Economics Week", Christian Ortner writes the following: "The fact that a state insurance monopoly works better and cheaper than the market would be a worldwide unique phenomenon." - Well, that's it! He writes: "In planning economics" – and this is a planning system – "in the end, there is always the customer of the stupid. This was already so in the GDR and is in the Austrian health care system – Mrs. Federal Minister – "not different." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The comparisons with the GDR are disgusting!]] [[Abg. May. ==References====External links== Dr. Khol with condolences.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You will still be allowed to quote!]] Finally, I would like to point out what the EIA holds from the health policy of the Socialists and her head, the Socialist Minister for Health. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We know the subject!]] ==References== October, on the day of the break of the great coalition, colleague Rasinger said in an attack of... [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Attack?- Oh, my God!]] That was perhaps an approach to new insights. At that time, Mr Rasinger recognized how socialist health policy really is. The Federal Minister has accused her of acting like Loch Ness's inconsistency: She showed up and disappeared right away without saying or doing anything. He thought she was going from fat cups to fat cups. – Read more, Mrs Federal Minister, in the Stenographical Protocol. Your coalition partner says of you: They come from fat caps to fat cups. Her plan, Mrs. Federal Minister, would never and never sign a Rasinger, who is the top health politician of your coalition partner. He would rather turn around in the grave, he said. That's your coalition partner's opinion! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Health Policy Fat Nap!]] But a few weeks later, when it turned out that he was getting back into the big coalition, he kissed her again. It rejects the sensible requests made by the liberals, with whom it fully conforms in terms of content. This is really a policy that the Austrian and the Austrian no longer understand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I fully understand, Mr Rasinger – and I know very well in the psychiatry too – that you have said whether this health policy has been said that you have fallen into deep, severe depression. I hope I broke you up a little bit today. I helped you get over this difficult phase. I offer you from ÖVP: In health policy, go a bit of the way with the liberals! Support our requests, support our intentions! Use the sparse coalition-free space that you have promised! Use the non-coalition space not only in the preservation of monuments, as granted to you by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, but also in health policy. That would be much more important! Go with us a little bit of the way! We have a majority of mandates here together. We will help to ensure that the Austrians are well cared for in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e32992	The two motions for resolutions have been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and are under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33018	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very attentively to the comments made by my colleague, Mr Doctor, and I believe that all the others here have done so, and I must say: In the case of such an opinion, as a parliamentarian, one should have the right to an emergency allowance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I thought of a quote of Balzac that I read these days. They trade with your phrases and live on this business. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what's comforting is: You don't live as well of this business as the last elections on 17 November. ==References== We therefore very much hopefully see the Vienna elections on 13 March. October. More and more, you will have to do phrases and not submit real concepts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you have a majority relationship in this House and the last discussion about the KRAZAF of 13. spoke in this House on October – I looked at the Minutes –: At that time you have looked very prophetically into the future and said that the great coalition, which will probably be back after the elections, will in fact be no more, because it will no longer have more than 50 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Haha!]] Dear colleague Pumberger! I hope that your diagnostic skills as a doctor are better trained than your ability to make a political prognosis – in the interests of your patients. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not 50 percent, but 66 percent of us are in this house, and we have formed a great coalition. ==References== In October the new extension of the CRAZAF is proof that these two parties would not be able to solve the political problems of this country. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was right!]] Be fair enough to also admit the reverse: We have now brought the hospital reform under the umbrella, and – in your department – we have thus proved that we can solve the problems of this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was a good reform, and it is a reform to which we can all stand. The success of this hospital reform – I have already said it in committee – has many fathers: The reform note that this republic - I am still coming in, dear friend - has been caught in recent months is a father who is willing to compromise on all sides is a father, a father was undoubtedly Viktor Klima, who, with his commitment to provide an additional 3 billion schillings to the Austrian hospitals every year for the next four years, has helped this compromise very much on the jumps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] But this success – and this is the keyword – not only has several fathers, this success also has a mother, and this mother of success is our Federal Minister Dr. Christa Krammer. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] We should have the size and the format – you can also ask an opposition politician – to recognize this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33103	Mr Guggenberger! The compromise is also a mother, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33122	Yes, thank you very much. – So we will have something after this agreement in the future, which you, too, have repeatedly advised of the opposition: In the future, in the Austrian hospitals, we will calculate the medical services according to their content, according to their quality and no longer according to the number of days a patient has been in bed. We will set up a structural commission, a structural commission at the federal and country level, which can intervene in a fiscal and coordinating manner. We will bring expenditure in hospitals into line with national economic development. Even more is to be booked on the haben-page. You've been thinking of all of this for years. Now it's under roof and compartment. Please accept that, Dr. Pumberger! But we know that we have only put the efforts of the mountains behind us with this agreement; in front of us are still the troubles of the plain. The Federal Minister has already said it in the committee – I believe it, and it fills me with great confidence –: As a Burgenlander, she is able to find herself in the troubles of the plains. In this way, we will also solve the problems that remain open in this context in the coming months together. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] We confess openly: Not everything has been regulated as we have imagined. We would have wanted a federal pot instead of the country pots. It will be clear whether the country's pots are indeed the health-political stone of the wise. In practice, it will be clear whether this increase in power will lead to the increase in the influence of the countries that in the future regional lobbyism, regional egoism, can be pushed back more than before. We will take measures to prevent, as before, the Austrians from coming to the hospital too often and too early and staying there too long. We will put in place a number of measures to achieve this objective. I am very confident and very optimistic that all of us will succeed. In any case, we are willing to cooperate there, and we are happy to give you our support.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33168	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33201	Mr. Klubobmann! What do you mean by "liberal morality"? – I think "Moral" is a term we should all have! The Liberals have him. I don't know with you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because no one believes you, you have them in the "company name"!]] Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger, stay here for a moment. I admire your optimism! They said that you or the coalition will solve the problems. I would not be so quick because we are at the beginning of a journey, and we know that a trip can go over plains, but also over hills. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] You talked about the plane. But I know that we still have a lot of hills ahead of us as far as health policy is concerned. Mrs. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, at the beginning of my remarks I must express my displeasure, I do not really like it, but I have to do it today. I cannot understand why you are acting in this way on a very topical issue in the current debate: It is incomprehensible to me that you hesitate to give a clear opinion on the requested release attempt by Herbicide-Mais. Mrs. Federal Minister! Our population expects a health minister to answer clearly in this problem and has no understanding of the delay tactics. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I welcome the clear answer given by Mr Molterer, the Minister for Agriculture, that such genetically modified products have nothing to look for in organic farming. Mrs Bundesminister, it should not be unknown to you that only adverse things have been known about the release of genes in nature. That is, you try it on crops, you want to make it insensitive, and you have to notice that the gene also passes to weeds. This also means that in future weeds become increasingly insensitive, for example, to weedicides. Madam Minister, I expect a clear answer to this problem today from you. Mrs. Minister! I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, after a long discussion by all the political groups here in the House, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously raised the demand for an environmental liability law, particularly for genetic engineering. Unfortunately, we have to note that the Federal Government has been very busy on this point over two legislative periods. This failure is all the more regrettable than it can now be applied in the case of the three requests for the release of transgenic plants. Ladies and gentlemen! But I would now like to go to health care and note: As we all know, our entire health care needs complete restructuring. For years now we have been discussing, discussing, proposals from different directions are being put to the debate, but unfortunately only forward-looking. To date, the main managers have not been willing to launch the necessary reforms. The agreement on a legally binding health care plan is therefore also to be seen as a light view. However, I already see a first hook, because according to the Federal Constitutional Act, the federal government has Article 10 para. 1 Only the following skills – I quote –: "Federal case is legislation and enforcement in the following matters:... However, health care, with the exception of the body, funeral, community and rescue services, as regards health and care facilities, spas and natural healing facilities, and only the sanitary supervision..." Under the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection Act, the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection shall: Issues of spas, natural healing, medical and care facilities and public care facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Why did I explain this situation of competence so in detail? – It aims to show why, under these unclear conditions, no reform of health care was possible. Whether it will be possible in the future is still in the stars – at least for us liberals. Even if the agreement on a performance-oriented billing of hospital expenses is in discussion, which would be welcome, I fear that the last word has not yet been spoken in this context. We know the protests that have already been made against the Austrian Hospital Plan 1994. We also know the hospital debate that has been held in recent days – above all with regard to the unclear competence addressed. Mrs. Minister! These circumstances allow little hope. My urgent question, Mrs Bundesminister: On what basis, on what legal basis is the nationally binding health care plan to be implemented? In this context, I would also like to point out to the politicians of the two government parties – I quote with the permission of Dr. Rasinger – that the so-called agreement would only break something if the record suspect hospitalizations were also under control. – End of the quote. But also Mr Leiner repeatedly stated that he felt it was particularly important to create structures in the extra-mural area to relieve hospitals. Mrs. Minister! I know and therefore go in accordance with your statement that this demand is a matter of country. Similarly, the health spokesperson of the Social Democrats, Mag. Guggenberger, for the expansion of the home hospital care. Mr Guggenberger! They know as well as I do that home care is overregulated by law and that it is not applied in practice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is due on the one hand to the main association of social security institutions with its rigidity, but on the other hand also the Social Ministry of the Social Minister of Humans and the countries must be held responsible. In the chapter Home Hospital Care, we see the real problem in the incompetence of the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection. This list, ladies and gentlemen, could be continued at any time. As far as group practices – an essential prerequisite for strengthening the extramural area – are concerned, we already know what to expect. Although the Constitutional Court of Justice has just recently abolished that body of the Medical Law as unconstitutional, which was considered an obstacle to the fact that the doctors are not allowed to form employment societies like the other professions, I am still afraid that a group practice law will not become reality so quickly, for it has already given – I remember – a draft to a group practice law in the last legislative period, which was a very useful basis for discussion. However, it was destroyed at an early stage by a recent ASVG-Novelle. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister's statement in the Committee on Budgets is as follows: allow me to quote you, too: If nothing serious happens, a new draft can still be drawn up in this legislative period. – That is, not this year, but we have time until the year 2000. Ladies and gentlemen! I remind you: As early as 1991, there was a preliminary debate on this matter, even with its own parliamentary subcommittee, the results of which were found in the resolution of 16 June 1991. ==References====External links== Mrs. Minister! I know that was before your time, but I regret that this sense of will was well meant by your ministry, but was not implemented. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Pumberger! I believe at least that you will receive agreement from the opposition to your motion for a resolution. We Liberals will, in any case, agree to your request. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Graf, Schöll and Dr. Pumberger.]] In this context, I would like to mention the following: We could see an exchange of letters between your ministry and the professional association of healing workers – we were able to track it back to 1986 – that this profession has been promised a corresponding training adaptation since 1986. Nothing has happened to this day. For this reason, we Liberals, including with a view to establishing the European Commission, have allowed us to put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter with the request to draw up, by March 1997 at the latest, a draft which will ensure uniform training for all masseurs in the medical field and thus a uniform career for the future. Another failure which has long been waiting for a scheme is the joint basic training of nurses. We also tabled a motion for a resolution yesterday calling for a draft on health and health care professions to be submitted by the end of 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! It is widely known that a number of legislative changes and contracts between the federal and state states would be necessary in order to achieve an improvement in health care. The agreement between the government partners on the one hand and the Austrian City Association, the Austrian Municipal Association and the national leaders on the financial implications of laws on the other is particularly unacceptable, since it is noted that cost-effective changes are only to be made by mutual agreement. This means that no objection can be expected in laws having financial implications. However, almost all relevant laws have financial implications in any way. It is therefore foreseeable that nothing will happen again, that necessary decisions will again be postponed to the long-term bank, and that – something which will be particularly unfortunate for Parliamentary health politicians – the Health Committee will be completely depleted or premeditated as before. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, I have to conclude, although from a liberal point of view there is still much to be said about our health care. I'd like to hold on: We know the meanings of will on the part of the Ministry of Health. However, these are not enough to lead real reforms, because the true crux is still the incompetence of the Ministry of Health and the discrepancy I have shown between the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Law and the principle agreement on a Federal Hospital Plan. It is only to be hoped that, against this background, a federal health care plan and the financing of nine country pots will be implemented. However, for this hope to be fulfilled, there is a need for a great deal of understanding among all stakeholders, such as the Federal Government, countries, municipalities, social assistance agencies and social security schemes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33285	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33307	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear listeners at the gallery! I would like to say something to Mr Pumberger and make it clear: We in the coalition intend to introduce the right to acquire companies here as early as the next few months. [[Abg. Böhacker: Again!]] Therefore, it was not necessary to respond to your request. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] But now it's ready. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: I'm glad!]] We really don't need the liberals to do this, but he doesn't know that. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Our health ministry actually has a relatively small budget available, it's 7.6 billion schilling when I see it right, while our health care needs 240 billion schilling in Austria. Nevertheless, I am not of the opinion of our Upper Austrian Council that we do not need a Ministry of Health. Why? – Because the framework conditions and the structural conditions required by the Ministry are essential in order to implement and implement this performance-oriented hospital financing. These structures and these framework conditions are borne by a certain ideology for us by the ÖVP; these structures include certain principles: More precautions, less repair. More outpatient, less stationary. More private initiatives, less state medicine. More benefits, less deficit management. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And precisely this performance-oriented hospital financing will produce this performance and fight this deficit economy. Of course, this is part of – I say that again – because I have the impression that Mr Pumberger has not understood it at all; I think he has not yet processed the whole system – the corresponding infrastructure. This is what we are working on, and in this respect the countries are called, otherwise it will become a child who has a very long pregnancy. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: An elephant baby!]] Usually – and even non-medicalists know that – a pregnancy lasts nine months, but it lasted 20 years. In fact, Federal Minister Ausserwinkler should have put on the table the appropriate measures and conditions in 1994. He has always said that they are in the drawer. Did he move her, Mrs. Minister? Don't you find them anymore? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I think we must admit that this is a certain amount of sluggishness or failure. We now need these framework conditions, under which our late birth LKF can really develop, very quickly. If we choose a sloppy Austrian solution now and do not make sure that this system is structured and organized until the last patient, until the last valley, through, we will soon have no joy in our child. I'm convinced of that. What do we want to achieve? – brought to a simple denominator: Fewer patients should be treated in the expensive hospital with the same quality of medical care. What's against it now? – As far as the country's pots are concerned, I personally strongly support them. I am a federalist, and I believe that it will give responsibility to the countries, and they will also be responsible for them. That was an old demand for the ÖVP, and I am actually very glad that it has now been realized. What is against is actually this hole in social security, it is 4 billion schilling that goes down. And how do you try to bring them in now? – By reducing performance! That's the wrong way. Because if you shorten the benefits at the periphery, the patients will be sent back to the hospital more and more. Although you will have shorter hospital stays, you will have increased recordings for them. We know that we have already reached the European average of 9.6 days of residence, but as far as the number of admissions is concerned, we are 22 percent compared to the European average of 16 to 17 percent, which means an increase of 25 billion schilling. If we could reduce this sum, then we could actually finance this problem, which we are here in the house, through the health insurance funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] On the contrary, we have to put even more into this area, we have to see that the infrastructure is being improved outside, that the doctors, including specialists, are ready to provide Saturday, Sunday, night services. We need to build a barrier in front of hospitals, patients should be instructed only through specialist doctors. We should ask for an ambulance fee so that not everyone immediately runs into the ambulance and is then immediately hospitalized from there. At present, this is the reality that is really straining our health system or our health system. In view of the current budgets for 1996 and 1997, I see first of all no way to achieve the necessary structural funds, second, it does not allow our economic location in Austria to increase wage costs, so we cannot increase contributions either. As early as 1992, the Minister – then it was Extraterrestrial – was called upon to find appropriate sources of funding. You will not be spared from unlocking such sources of funding now. You must now have ideas to spend money together with the Minister for Social Affairs so that we can also finance this system. Countries will be called upon – even if you can save something in the hospital sector – to make money available accordingly. If they do, that'll show up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] - That's what I know. We have already convened a health summit in Salzburg. We are already preparing for next year very clearly how we are organizing this. As far as group practices are concerned, I am quite right to Mr Pumberger. This is a very important structural contribution. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] It is indeed tragic – I must say that – that the Constitutional Court of Justice has again made health policy that an ideological barrier to the social democrats has really prevented this for years. That the daily clinics are being built up, I find infinitely important. We know that the ASVG must be changed, that the Medical Law must be amended, that the Hospital Law must be amended so that these things can really be taken extramurally on the ground. I also believe that it is important to organise and implement a training initiative and a performance initiative. 200 000 people in Austria – we never talk about – are active in the health professions, and demographics say that this number will still double. There would still be a lot of potency. In this area, we should really invest in order to provide people with jobs, for example in care professions, as old-age workers, as ordination aids, as rescues and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, let me clarify something about personal responsibility for health: The thinking of claims over the past 25 years has sometimes taken totally responsible action. According to a WHO study in Canada, only 10 percent of health can be done through medical care, but 24 percent through lifestyle. So 24 percent of us can organize ourselves, most of our health we can do ourselves. We are still considering what we should offer, if we offer and even provide financial sugars to people, to provide them with their own responsibility. I do not understand, Mrs Primaria Povysil - a very dear colleague - that you have complained here of abolishing birth aid. Isn't that wrong from the logic? There is something else to be done to make use of. You have to think about it! I think that is almost a little socialist thinking that does not fit in here. I'd like to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we have to make the individual responsible for his health. It is sufficient to make available to him the possibilities and facilities of state. Don't believe it's unsocial. The most unsocial health system is that which we can no longer afford. We must, everyone according to their possibilities, contribute to ensuring the high quality of supply. Each individual can and should contribute to this through his way of life and his lifestyle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33434	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33455	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a large number of important health problems that arise. The change in hospital funding, working time arrangements for health professionals, especially in hospitals, a training reform, the strengthening and expansion of patient rights, the connection of school medicine with other approaches to medicine, alternative teachings – all these are major problems that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and your department are facing. Although these problems are great and urgent, I do not want to say anything about them today, because what seems to me at the moment to be the central question in Austrian health care, is whether Austria is getting into a new, very dangerous technology, namely genetic engineering, in so far as it concerns releases, or not. That is the central question, a question which is at least of the same importance as at the time the question whether Austria remains a non-atomic state or whether we are entering this technology, which we know today, has been and is fatal. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This question is not a scientific question, it is a profound political question, and you, Mrs Federal Minister, are required. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, owe the Austrian population an answer to the question: How do you cope with genetic release experiments? It is not a question of what can be done in science and what is the assessment of scientists working in this field, but of the question: Where is Austria to take political action? – Mrs Federal Minister! That is to say, you can no longer have a long-standing answer in this question. Mrs. Federal Minister! The question of genetic engineering, especially the question of releases, has at least the brink of the question of nuclear energy and the entry into this technology, yes or no. For a long time, we know that much can be done in many other areas of science, but we do not know if we should control it there. Medicine too can do much more today than what is perhaps moral-ethically acceptable. We can preserve the lives of brain-dead people – if you can call them life – we can maintain their life functions. It is a political question: How far can that go? How long can that go? Can such women bring children to the world? That is a political question to be answered. We have also talked here in this House about in vitro fertilization, and we have taken the view that we must make a political decision on what science is allowed and what it is no longer allowed to do. It can't be that science decides for itself where its boundaries are, because then we know that we are politically lagging behind and that we are no longer able to carry out this trajectory. Political decisions have been asked, and you, Mrs Federal Minister, today have the opportunity to express your opinion in front of this House. You shouldn't let this chance pass away useless! It is not the question of scientific committees, because if you leave the answer to these committees, I can tell you today how it will turn out. You know just as well as I do how these committees are composed. There are large, large majority of passionate representatives of genetic engineering. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: These are not "passionate representatives"! These are experts, scientists! You don't want to hear that!]] Mr Novotny! This may be an expert, but you know as well as I do that, both on nuclear energy issues, it is precisely this assessment on questions of toxicology that concerns genetic engineering: What is the risk to citizens, in environmental terms and in scientific terms? Of course, I can go back to the point of view: I hope nothing will happen. I also have this hope, but that is not a political answer. Politically, the question is: Do we want to limit the risk to an absolute minimum, as Austria did with the decision of Zwentendorf at the time, or do we not want to? We still have a risk, such as the border nuclear power plants, but in our own field we put the risk at zero, and that was a good decision at that time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Why are you so aggressive?]] We didn't have this risk discussion. We did not lead them politically, above all. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We led her!]] No, Mr Novotny! I would remind you of what happened in committee at that time. In this subcommittee of the Health Committee, representatives from the field of science and health were present for so long as the decision had not really been taken. And then there was the Rochade, then all of a sudden the so-called economic experts came. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Is that something negative?]] Then you were in the committee, then the honourable Member was stupid in the committee, then the health experts had nothing more to say, then all of a sudden the people from these areas have gone out of the committees. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Why are you so aggressive?]] Mrs Tichy-Schreder! The question is: What is the environmental, which health risk do we believe to be for the Austrian population? Secondly, it is also about the question – and this is especially important for the EIA: What agriculture do we want from tomorrow? Where do we see the future of our agriculture? We see them in the race with the agro-industrial industries in Europe or we see them in the "fine-cost shop" of Europe, in a organically oriented agriculture, as it is represented by Minister Molterer, by Minister Bartenstein, for example. I am very happy about these statements, and I share their opinion on this question. I am glad that there have been two Ministers of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have found the courage to go to the public and express their views. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also believe that this is the success path for Austrian agriculture and therefore for an important branch of the Austrian economy. This is not only the right way for agriculture, but also for the food and food industry: producing organic, natural food and giving up genetic discharges. This does not mean a complete ban or the abolition of genetic engineering, but a political debate on the conditions under which it may take place. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's where we agree!]] No, I am afraid we do not agree, Mr Novotny. It makes a big difference whether, for example, I am in a laboratory, whether I am in a pharmaceutical production under very strictly controlled conditions, which in our opinion must be even more stringent, which, in particular, require more democratic control, transparency, an insight of the public, or whether I act with releases. And, Mr Novotny – as was the case with nuclear energy at the time – it is already apparent today that the critics are keeping right. So far, the forecasts for release experiments have been wrong. We know, for example, that the assumptions about the pollen flight were wrong. We know today – and this proves with scientific studies – that the pollens continue to fly, and we know that the assumptions that these genetically modified plants are infertile were wrong. There have been crossing processes, and we can assume for the future that the various companies operating with different herbicide and pesticides will produce cross-resistances whose ecological dangers we cannot estimate at all. As has been said, the question of limiting environmental risks is also a question of: What is social and ecologically acceptable research and production? And since, Mr Novotny and Mrs Federal Minister, the question is: If we need consumers, does Austrian agriculture need herbicides-resistant plants? The answer is a clear no. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] These plants will be devastating. They will make farmers more dependent and, above all, will further detract the economic interests of the Third World. We are currently experiencing God thanks to a boom of organic farming in Austria. If Austria rises into these genetic release experiments, then it is only a matter of time until this boom has ended and until one setback comes to the other, the industrial, the denatured side of agriculture and agricultural production. This is one side in which the Austrian producers will be out of chance and in which consumers will get worse products. It is, as has been said, a political answer. The question is not: What can be done by science? As I said, As far as science itself is concerned, so far the assumptions have been wrong. And what about the forecasts of those who have often been wrong? It's about ecological responsibility. It's about social tolerance. We need organic farming. We cannot keep pace with agro-industrial productions, i.e. to send our farmers into a chanceless race. In addition, as a European small country, as an EU member, we must also maintain an international responsibility for the Third World States, which are increasingly dependent on the introduction of genetic engineering. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, there is another question – and this too is a profound political and not a scientific question: It is about the distribution of scarce resources. You know as well as I do, Mrs Federal Minister, that your place of business is also ready to promote the first release experiments with millions of amounts; Millions of amounts in a time of savings packages, of tax packages, millions of amounts at a time when organically operating plants really have to run around every schilling and we know that even promised, promised support programmes for ecological conversions cannot be met! Mrs. Federal Minister! At a time of scarce resources, policy decisions must be made: What do you want to promote? Wings Do you promote herbicide-resistant maize with all the ecological and social risks and with the risks to the Third World? Or don't you prefer to promote health care, and with it you are safe to produce, spread, popularizing organic food, reasonable nutrition? There your funds belong to them and not to requests for funding, whether they come from Seibersdorf or from other plants that only want to make plants resistant to herbicides. These applications for support then make a double dependence. For this pharmaceutical, this chemical multi then, once it has its product on the market, deserves twice: on the one hand, the genetically modified seed and on the other hand, on the other – in the combination – on the pesticides, on the herbicide, against which this plant is immune and which it supplies at the same time. Consumers will then receive this product, which will not even be declared openly and honestly to its nature. Mrs. Federal Minister! Once more: You have to make a political decision. You can't keep silent any longer. It is not about the Scientific Committee, it is not about natural science feasibility, but about the question: How's Austria's agriculture going? How is Austria's consumer protection going on? How is it going to deal with questions of ecology and the averting of environmental risks? Mrs. Federal Minister! This is a soil apple from a biological production. [[The speaker shows an earth apple.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Which variety?]] I don't know exactly that, but it's an earth apple that's produced – and that's the most important thing – without the use... [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: After that!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: There are many varieties! There are many differences!]] These differences are particularly important for the genetic engineers, for they involve genes there, and it has been shown that this inclusion of genes is life-threatening for some people. The biological potatoes, Mrs Bundesminister, whether they are bintje or any other, are in any case safe for health. And that's what matters. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This earth apple is free from residues, pesticides, herbicides, it has also been produced without the use of artificial fertilizers. I am now giving you this earth apple, and I hope you will remember that you owe the Austrian people the choice in which direction we continue. And I would like us to have such earth apples, of whatever kind, but free of pesticides, of herbicides and certainly of our health.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33669	The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - She has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33691	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Cheap health care is required – but how? Health costs are incurred there – and only where there is a sick person. There will always be a sick person, but the question is: How many? There are accident, hereditary and ill diseases that result from bad habits in ill situations. In the cases of hereditary diseases, we as a society have everything to do to alleviate the sufferings of these people who have come to these diseases without guilt, or through research and science to seek and find means and ways to bring about healing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Allow a question!]] [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: Question Time is tomorrow!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It costs money, and it costs a lot of money that hopefully is available because it could meet each of us, and only the person concerned knows how important the support from society is. But it's completely different for people with self-satisfying diseases – listen carefully! Through self-toxication, poor nutrition, lack of exercise and so on, changes in the body are caused, which, if they have to be treated, cause our health costs to explode. As a nurse, I myself am confronted daily with eradicating the diseases of people with the most cost-intensive medicine and care caused by ignorance and carelessness. But has this also eliminated ignorance and carelessness? Do we not need to be much more intensive in the education, training, prevention, so that these diseases caused by man himself are minimized? Should not training in medical professions, whether doctors or nurses, pay much more attention to the training of patients on health-conscious and self-responsible people? It requires a great general education on the part of educational staff to convince these patients of the correctness and need for healthy living. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to do so, you need the right armor, not only a profound training in subject-specific, general education subjects, but mainly also human-ethical, characteral characteristics. Only good examples, living models and models that live themselves what you say and teach can be a support to this sick person to get out of their painful situation. Only then can we reduce the general costs, costs that can no longer be incurred due to the dazzling health of our population. That's why my call is: Let's make our medical staff a role model! Let's teach people, and we'll get everything! Health itself does not cost much. If we have already talked about role models, Mr Haigermoser, as a nurse, I ask you again, High House, ladies and gentlemen, to do everything to be a living model of health and vitality for our people.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33764	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33785	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just before my speech, I would like to reply directly to the Prime Minister Leiner, who also addressed me directly. It's not about giving birth aid, it's about me being the fact that it's...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33812	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Don't be irritated! You're talking and nobody else. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e33833	Mr. Primarius! In politics, we cannot only assume an ideal case, but it is the fact that since the introduction of the birth aid, the mother-child passport monitoring has been a complete one. And I have already said in detail about the value of this mother-child-pass study, and I do not want to go into it at all now. It is to be feared that there will be a massive setback in the provision of birth aid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Let's look at it!]] The fact that the government parties place little emphasis on the prevention is what I am going to say in my speech. We'll discuss this, if you're right, out later. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a crime against the children – and that of a family party!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is my first speech on the health budget here in the House. That is why I did my homework, so I took my time and so I browsed in the stenographic protocols of the previous year. I found a passage that I don't want to keep from you. Unfortunately, the social-democratic health politician is power. Guggenberger is not present right now, because this passage concerns him. Last year he opened his speech after the greeting with the following words – I quote –: "There is a young intellectual health practitioner named Dr. Hannes Schmidl, and he likes to use the following example when writing about our health and social system: Let us assume that there is no social and health system in this country, that the government would set up a Commission with the task of designing such a scheme. After some time of reflection, the wise ladies and gentlemen come back and present the following model: First: It is intended to operate all health care facilities, medical practices, hospitals, advisory services and the like, as close as possible to each other and isolated and without interconnecting with each other. Secondly, As many laws as possible at federal and national level, perhaps also in the constitutional order, are to be passed so that anyone who wants to change this situation fails. Thirdly, It is intended to spread the funding to as many as possible – social insurance companies, the federal government, countries, municipalities – so that the feeling of disadvantage arises constantly among all the funding providers." Guggenberger – it was the 6th. April 1995 – concluded for his Mr. Schmidl: "If a Commission were to come back to the government with such proposals," says Schmidl, "they would probably be sent to the desert. The problem is just: Our system works largely according to these principles." - Quote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So Guggenberger spoke almost a year ago. For the sake of fairness, I add that he – Schmidl, not Guggenberger – sees the mistakes in the system as grown with which one has to live. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Guggenberger is a health-political Schmidl!]] After reading about health policy, as I believe, but with some commitment, I cannot resist the impression that Mr Guggenberger did not speak of a fictitious Commission, but that perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, have entered into an advisory agreement with this Commission. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Dr. Pumberger has already read to you the Levites – and he is right. He is right if he criticizes arrears in the preventive medical measures. He is right when he addresses you to the expected crash; it must crash between federalism and centralism, between the planned ÖKAP and between the shifting autonomy to the countries. He is right if he criticizes the introduction of the LKF without accompanying structural measures. He is right to warn, on behalf of our youth, that in the future small-scale dealers in the drug environment are practically free of punishment. And he's perfectly right if he's making a strong contribution to the promotion of private medical institutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He wouldn't be right if he didn't read the Levites to you. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Since, in my speech, I also have some scope for fundamental considerations on health policy in general or for your budgeting, I would like to draw your attention to the danger of losing sight of the fundamental, for the essential, but also for the future, of having clear figures and against loud comparisons in the budget forest. I believe that before we can create a budget chapter on health, we must be subjective and objective first and foremost to be clear about the value of health. You have to be clear about this – Mrs Health Minister, can I now also address you as a Federal Health Mother? [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Grandmother goes too! That's me, too!]] Thank you. So you have to be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have many fathers for your children, what?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That's too far, Doctor! I insist that you take it back!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: On the health rail there are the many fathers!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: No, the reform has many fathers, not me for my children!]] [[Cheerfulness and other calls.]] Mrs. Minister, may I go on again? [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: You must tell Mr Stadler, not me]] You were talking! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Should I give you a sedative?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: No, I'm not excited! You're so upset!]] [[Further calls and unrest.]] We must be clear about this, Mrs Minister, whether we are running a ministry without competence or whether we are carrying out health policy from a cast with a transparent and meaningful qualification of competence. One has to be aware of whether in a mass processing of an anonymous patient a patch and a prescription for a drug is pressed into the hand or whether one recognizes the importance of a personal doctor-human relationship in its very uniform dimension and focuses the policy on it. And you have to be, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear whether we are giving our older fellow citizens the best medical assistance, or whether, out of short-term cost considerations, we are falling victim to important Geriatric rehabilitation measures to the red pen of any cash medical doctor. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a measure of the social development of our society, how we deal with our old and sick people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The number of these old people will rise. In 50 years, the number of 60-year-olds doubled, the number of 85-year-olds tripled. If we do not make a change of consciousness in dealing with old people today, we are on the best way to a generation conflict, and you will all feel it directly and directly. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: You too, Mrs. Colleague!]] As a government, it must also be made clear whether it is necessary to force a medical faculty to close its gates, no longer to accept students and no longer to be able to hold any compulsory internships, or whether it may not even be possible to make more funds available for an internationally exemplary and, above all, more practical training. And one has to be aware of whether in health policy one still keeps one’s head from one emergency budget to the other over water, or whether one dares to take the necessary spiritual leap for a change of consciousness. Finally, we must be aware that, once our health has been clearly attacked, all the other values are in the background for each and every one of us. Then we would not all sit there. Those who work in radiology for a number of years have at least the medical perspective on how many damage has arisen due to lack of awareness of prevention and also due to lack of preventive measures. I therefore believe that I can take the liberty to point to the importance and the importance of preventive measures and preventive policies. While it was still said in the Government Declaration - I quote - that more attention is paid to health, promotion and prevention programmes, the budget for these measures will be reduced from 205 million to 155 million, i.e. by 50 million. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (because of the fact that Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You're supposed to put the truck back there!]] Not by reducing, but by spending more, we save as a result, as Dr. Leiner quotes. I hope that my professional colleagues Dr. Leiner and Dr. Rasinger, who are now again present, will not today sacrifice their views on the precautionary policy to the coalition force, but, in accordance with their conscience as doctors and politicians, will support our subsequent request, which I am submitting here. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Always present!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Bravo!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But today there are many more points to which I would like to draw your attention. We stand, I believe, at the beginning of a huge revolution in medicine, and soon it will be possible for every doctor to bring a university clinic home. It will be possible that as a radiologist from Linz, I will discuss with a colleague from Boston diagnosis and therapy in virtual space online. What I would like to say to you is that we must think forward-looking that we must not allow ourselves to develop visions in politics as well, that we have an offensive approach to new developments in technology and society, and that we must give the policy's response in good time, and have control, promotion or corrective action. Our health policy is as reactive as Austrian politics is. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like once again to move on to the Austrian health budget before entering the Bureau for a "result on the matter". The budget to be decided by you today bears the handwriting of the Commission, which Mr Guggenberger has put into play, which he wanted to send to the desert, as I quoted at the outset – unfortunately, you were not present. This health chapter is a logical consequence of an Austrian health policy, which is sleepy and low-competence over many years, but it is also the result of a coalition of parties that has combined a numbering work from short-term budget needs, which does not meet the requirements of a forward-looking health policy nor respects people in their basic needs. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34190	Next speaker is Member Dr. Rasinger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34216	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It has often been spoken of today as a megatheme. I'll tell you what the real megatheme is. The real mega-theme of health policy is not, as Mrs Petrovic says, genetic technology, since the train has long gone away, and what medicine is about, we are even very grateful that if you had an hereditary disease, you would also be grateful if there were further research, and that is happening – but the mega-theme is the question of the rationalization of medicine. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Which direction?]] We all take this as so, of course. In my last speech, I pointed out that in America, instead of 40 million Americans in five to eight years, about 60 million Americans will not have insurance protection. Do you know what that means? – That is, if you go to the hospital and have cancer or a severely ill child, you say in the hospital: first credit card, then treatment. Thank God, we are not so far in Austria, and that is a value. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'll tell you who's gonna meet. I'll tell you why I'm riding around on this subject and who's going to meet: Meetings will include disabled people, possibly minimum pensioners, multiple families, people with minimum incomes and the unemployed. I'll tell you as a doctor and insider: We stand, if we do not counter, at the level of a system that will not be eligible for funding and in which a number of people, in particular, will slide in towards two-class medicine. And that's what I want to prevent! Just once take the number of doctors who do not have a cash contract. Meanwhile, half of all doctors who are established do not have a cash contract at all. In other words, they are not at all accessible to a normal citizen who is not financially concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who is responsible for this? That's health policy!]] I think the issue is the cost. And if you look at the costs alone, you have to ask yourself: Can we afford this – or can we not afford it? That is the crucial question. In the entire discussion that has been held in the last few weeks, I always felt that there is no word, and that word is called "patient". The second thing you should consider is the question: What do patients want? – I can tell you, I see relatively many patients and have never heard of a patient, he wants to be treated badly, so I assume that in the future it will be the patient’s and the vast citizen’s desire to be optimally and well cared for. What about the reforms we have set up on the part of the government? Are those who fulfil this claim? A few weeks ago, a reform took place in the hospital sector. Mr Pumberger, because you said that was not a reform – so I would say that is certainly a mega-reform. The question is: What will be the reform once? Each reform has a chance or also presents a danger. I hope that the positive will prevail by far, but we must wait for how this will develop. There are a number of critical voices in Germany. For example, for heart surgery a study has now been published that a patient tourism takes place. Because the performance in heart surgery has been poorly evaluated, for example, children's heart surgery has been transferred from some surgeons to university clinics, which then have to swallow the entire cost. I think it's unethical to send patients back and forth without they know it just because they don't bring money. I think that in Austria – we have half a year of time – you will need to be very careful. The question of so-called foreign patients – a subject that Rieder is always happy to lead in the mouth – should also be buried with this reform for at least four more years. I think Rieder should check with the city councillor Edlinger, because this is what is happening to your citizens, Mrs Minister, and the Lower Austrians. This has been dealt with in a deciduous manner. The key question as to whether we should rationalise or not – which I clearly answer with a no, which will not be so easy at all – is: What system do we even want to afford? Three days ago at the AKH, a symposium "Spitzenfeinungen in der Medizin" took place, and it was found that in the last three years, the number of top interventions in the AKH has doubled. I will now tell you a little from a medical point of view what top interventions are and what they cost, because we are always talking about costs, and no one knows what happens to the money. For example, if you suffer from an expansion of the body arterial tract, which affects 2 to 5 percent of the population over 50 years of age, then the surgery that has to be performed with the heart lung machine will cost about 500 000 p. We'll afford that. The alternative would be that on some day the patient is simply bleeding and simply bleeding. Second example: There are people who fall on the street unconsciously together, are reanimated. In the hospital, it is noted that they tend to have cardiac arrhythmias, so - called cardiac flickering. For these people today, with a probe and a special device, a so-called automatic defibrillator, one can prevent the risk of a second chamber flicker, i.e. a safe death. Cost point only of this device, not of intervention: 350 000 S. If you have the wrong to be a smoker, to have too much stress in politics, and if you subsequently get a heart disease constriction – at least cause of death for every second Austrian – then they theoretically have two possibilities if they survive or do not yet have the heart attack, but they are diagnosed beforehand: Either you get a bypass operation – cost: 150 000 S – or an extension of the vessels – costs about 80 000 S, but with the risk that about 50 percent of the vessels will be closed over the next five years. There's a new development again. They can use a precious metal scaffolding virtually the stretched vessel. The closing rate drops to half, to 25 percent, but only this small precious metal piece costs 20 000 s, the operation is not taken into account at all. Then it is, I estimated 70 000, 80 000 p. If you need a heart transplant, then the 400 000 p. concrete case costs: A young low-Austrian sufferer suffers from a viral flu, has a heart muscle inflammation, and has practically no functioning heart. In the AKH a mechanical pump is used to him because there was no suitable heart donor. After about four months, he gets a heart transplanted – by the way the AKH is the center in Europe, which transplants most hearts –: Cost point of the heart transplant 400 000 S, the whole operation including mechanical points 1 million schilling. I think we should be proud of that. That was a very simple construction worker. In America it would be unthinkable that this would happen. There he would have died mercilessly. I don't want to bring the example of Bruno Kreisky again and again. Bruno Kreisky would never have been dialysed and never transplanted in the cheap English health system, because there was the age limit 50 years, and he was then, I think, 65 or 70 even. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a tasteless example!]] The last two examples in the medical field. There are now studies that with new cholesterol - reducing drugs, heart attack rates can be reduced by a third. Do you know what it takes to take these drugs a year? – 6,000 S! Do you know what someone pays on average on health insurance contributions a year? About 13,000 pp. That means you'd only "eat" half of the cash contributions through a single drug. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: What is the solution?]] I want to tell you something, because only by telling you, through concrete examples can you talk about what you can do. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But what to do? I want to hear solutions!]] I don't just want to talk about cost, I want to say what's done with it. That is also crucial. There is a new drug that will be on the market in a few months – that is, acamprosate – which can theoretically be used in 250 000 alcoholics and reduce the rate of relapse in chronic alcoholism from 80 percent to 60 percent. That is, instead of 20 percent success in healing, you could double the success of the alcoholic to 40 percent. And everyone who has an alcoholic in the family knows what these are tragedys. The cost of doing this is certainly going to be in the guilds, because it has to be given practically over several years. In other words, we come to a point where we have to ask ourselves: Can we pay for this with the existing system? I'll tell you: We can pay for this, but only when we go new ways. Firstly, by relieve the hospital, because that is the most expensive form of care. One step has been taken. We'll see how this affects. Secondly, by moving as many services as possible to the outside. Here we come to our favorite theme group practices. The Constitutional Court has spoken a clear word, and of course we will insist that we give it gas. Thirdly, Promotion of precautionary measures. There is now a new study from America that says: More exercise alone, alone by lowering blood pressure, only low-fat diet could reduce the risk of heart attack by 25 percent in America. It didn't cost a big one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What a good thing if people are not insured! If the American examples are useful to you, always take them out!]] No, no. I just want to give you a health lessons so that you don't believe I'm sleeping all day or, as Pumberger says, Dr. Rasinger, he doesn't know himself and doesn't dare to stand up. Sugar disease: In Austria, we have about 300,000 diabetes. Cost point about 10 billion schilling; most common cause of blindness, most common cause of amputation, most common cause of dialysis. There is, for example, a model of diabetes care at the home doctor in Burgenland. That's gonna be paid for there. There is no such thing in Vienna, nothing happens in Vienna. That is, if we do not invest in the prevention – and here I am at my most important point – we are punished by very high costs, because all the examples I have listed before would have been highly avoidable in good living and with more personal responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: People have to do something about it! That's where healthy people have to do something!]] Yes, yes, it is, Mrs Partik-Pablé. The decisive thing in health policy will be that we do not see people lying in the hospital or in the nursing home, but that we are getting healthy older. That is the crucial question. And there only self-responsibility and precautionary medicine can help. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the Dr. Rasinger!]] No, not Dr. Rasinger. With all the savings that are certainly possible, I say one of the ÖVPs: We will certainly defend ourselves against saving at the expense of the patients by shortening the benefits, because reducing benefits means first rationalizing the medicine and, secondly, leading to high follow-up costs. And this is economically unreasonable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will, of course, have to say where the money comes from when we discuss the costs. We will have to say in all cases that we will have to say that in the case of contributions, in the case of additional wage costs, we are at the limit. Germany, France and Austria are the only three countries in the Western world with systems that mainly finance additional labour costs. This is historical, but in the future it will certainly not be. What can poor old people do for perhaps the economy to have more unemployed then less? This is just as illogical as when we said that we are linking motorway construction to unemployment. I think that in the future there will be different ways to go. Mr Leiner has already said that in 1992 the Minister of Health was invited to submit proposals. I can imagine that, in future, we are considering tobacco, mineral oil or alcohol taxes, parts of which we are devoting to health care. I conclude by saying: I would like to end with the sentence with which the AKH symposium on high quality has ended. The crucial question will be, where the professors asked: Do we want to do all we can to maintain health, or are we willing to refrain from doing so? In any case, I can say to the ÖVP: We will fight on the part of the ÖVP first against a two-class medicine and second for a high level. You can certainly take us to the floor in this regard!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34378	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34399	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I listened with interest to Mr Rasinger's comments. He is certainly an expert in this sector, and I believe that a lot of things, just, Mr Rasinger, that with Bruno Kreisky, I must tell you, is also very interesting, but I feel a little tasteless! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now to something else. Health policy, Mrs Federal Minister, is certainly a typical cross-sectional matter. It covers many areas, it has many neighbouring areas, and it requires a high degree of control and coordination. You see this, I think, right in your task, but unfortunately you do not have the necessary degree of competence to actually exercise these control functions as we would imagine. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the Europe-wide discussion on BSE, I think it is necessary to critically question individual aspects of meat hygiene. However, I do not want to continue the discussion we had here last Friday and at the BSE was a central point – that is not cynicism, Mr Wabl, that is important – but I would like to address very specific areas where I am concerned about positions of principle. [[Abg. Wabl: No blind-wound cynicism!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We not only had, but we probably have in Austria the best feed law, the best pharmaceutical law, probably also the best-trained veterinarians in Europe. We have a number of measures where we can undoubtedly have a very high standard. Nevertheless, it seems important to me to say that we risk being caught by animal diseases in Austria as well, but we are at risk of harm to the consumption of meat. Why will you ask? – Because – and the answer takes place in three ways – we too, in the legislative, but also in the executive, sometimes too uniform in the meat and food hygiene sector, because there are, Mrs. Federal Minister, enforcement deficits, because we have also relied on inadequate directives of the European Union – I have to say that too – and because we also find gaps in meat hygiene, because, so to speak, we have not worked the safety net tight enough. Unfortunately, sometimes something will be silenced. Mrs Bundesminister, you yourself said a few weeks ago that Ajeski was not a subject in Austria. Well, I wouldn't be that sure. There have been two Ajeski cases, they have also been published in the official display of the veterinary authorities, and these cases have probably - I say - been recorded in good time, the animals of those farms in which the occurrences have been established have been completely awakened. Nevertheless, I would not be so sure that we really caught up with this problem and suffocated a germinating disease in the germ, so to speak. I would not be very sure of this and would ask you to take care of it again in your area so that we can really do everything we can to avoid creating a new problem here. I was disturbed that you said, so to speak, before the measures were taken, "is not a topic in Austria". So here I would just like to warn you, because there are already examples in which one always says that it is not a subject, and then one insists that strange incidents are very likely to be a topic. For example, we have the problem of illegal and unauthorised veterinary drugs in Austria. These are brought across the border in a large style, mainly from Bavaria. Why? – Because these drugs in Bavaria are only half as expensive as comparable – but only superficially comparable – medications in Austria. There's a difference, of course. Mrs. Federal Minister! They certainly also know that there is this new type of career of "agricultural consultants" from Bavaria – they are sometimes called "autobahn-tierzte" – who are doing such business in great style. The national veterinary authorities in Styria and Upper Austria also know quite well. I must address the question to you and to all of us here in this House: Why are these people still driving their beings in Austria? Why wasn't there any ads? Why don't you have these rulerships? [[Call:Because no one is watching]] Yeah, because no one's watching. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: If you show her!]] However, there are national veterinary authorities that exercise, so to speak, a kind of "protection function". I'm just putting this in the room. It's a problem. We have to deal with this. Ladies and gentlemen! As for drug abuse in veterinary medicine, there are a number of interesting publications. Mrs. Federal Minister! I assume that you will read it, and I also assume that your colleague, Mr Molterer, reads it, and if he does not read it, he should do so. I have brought here some examples that are interesting: "Overdose in the area of Florphenicol in the fight against cattle flu; a publication of Schering-Plough also on the topic of bovine influenza as well as on the subject of the administration of illegal medications; a publication by diplomat Holger Uhlig, published in the newspaper "Deine UNI" entitled "Da grayst der Sau", subtitle: "It's really life-threatening, however, when cheap pharmaceuticals are used from obscuring East Labors", or a "Kurier" article of 21. In December 1995, which describes exactly what happens, for example, in Styria and Upper Austria, to these "Autobahn-Tierzten" (Autobahn-Tierzten). Also an article, also published in "Deine UNI", entitled "Schweinischer Substance" by Herbert Univski: "An illegal drug in the animal mast leads to lymph and bone marrow damage in humans." Ladies and gentlemen! All of this should not cause panic, but on the other hand, this House must not allow it to be bagatized that it is easily overcome. And I sometimes have the impression that we are acting too generously there. I would like to address another subject, namely the hygiene of meat, the area where I have a law gap, a vulnerability where the safety net is not close enough to me. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is known to you that two years ago... [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer speaks to the freedom director of the club.]] But now I must also remind colleagues from the FPÖ that he gives peace and does not bother the Minister if Mr Pumberger has already told me some naughtiness just because I wanted to make an appointment. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I didn't feel bothered!]] So please have the same right for everyone here! I'm coming back to what I actually wanted to say. Two years ago, a novel to the 1992 meat investigation law was unanimously adopted in this House. All parties – including mine – voted in favour. I believe, however, that this safety net has been expanded in this area and that this revision is not particularly favourable today for the meat consumer or for the farm direct marketer. What has been decided? – The actual control possibilities of the meat veterinarians were restricted to slaughterhouses and meat ranches. This has logically led to the replacement of regular meat control tests in the area of supermarkets and trade chains, which had been carried out before - i.e. until 1994 - by farm hygiene controls prescribed by the state government. If one goes further into the depth, one sees that the veterinarian who carries out this farm hygiene control actually no longer controls the quality of the meat, but only the hygiene conditions in the environment. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That's what the food inspectors do!]] But also the meat examination veterinarians, Mrs. Federal Minister! Check it out! Food inspectors, but very probably also meat-examining veterinarians. You can check that out. I checked it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I believe you!]] The veterinarian does not carry out any more sensory inspection of the meat, and if he actually discovers unfit meat, then in fact he only remains the possibility of ad at the food inspection. He can no longer act independently, he can no longer carry out a seizure himself. I believe that this is not in line with the original intentions; there is a need for correction. On the other hand, the veterinarians are very likely to be asked to prove or to give the stamp that suitable meat has been supplied, even though they cannot verify it at all. I think that we should act soon. We have therefore allowed ourselves to put forward a motion for a resolution which I would like to read so that this gap can be closed as soon as possible. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You see, in some cases there is an acute need for action. Do not hesitate, but sit You are quick to remedy this! We Liberals will be happy to assist you with constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34540	The Magistrate. Firlinger's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported. He will be involved in the trial. Mrs Buder has now been reported to speak. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34564	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A proverb says: The healthy person has a thousand wishes, the sick one: to get healthy. And your ministry is said to be a national health ministry, although, as we all know, it is called the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection and, of course, consumer protection is very important. It has already been mentioned today that precautionary measures are very important. It has also been said that life expectancy has increased, that we in Austria are God thanks to many 65 years old and 80 years old. And I believe that this is due not only to the improvement of medicine and drugs, but also to the improved social environment and to the increased health awareness of many Austrians. Now that there is again beautiful weather, many of us – if you can and if you allow time – move out into the open, and so I am already on the first topic that is a concern to me, namely at the tick vaccination. In my federal state, Styria, there were 86 FSME cases in 1994 and in 1995 only more than 38, i.e. less than half. I believe that everyone should protect themselves against this tick disease and take advantage of the possibility of vaccination. The Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse (Stiermärkisches Krankenkasse) can already refer to a success report in this area this year, because it has already been vaccinated by 23 000 Steirers, which is 50 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A high rate of vaccination is particularly advisable for the Steiermark tick-hochburg, since 40 percent of the total FSME cases occur in Styria. If we are already in vaccination, I would also like to stress the importance of the rate of vaccination in adults. Especially in times when diseases seem to be overcome, it is highly advisable to be vaccinated against diphtheria, tetanus, tuberculosis, but also against flu, as these diseases, if we do not want to see them true, are in the process of resurgence. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Magnifier]] The tuberculosis, for example, is coming again: In the first half of 1995, 22 cases were reported for the under 15 years. Health experts from WHO called in Geneva on the occasion of the World Tubercolose Day on 24 May. In March, States and aid agencies, against tuberculosis and the immune disease AIDS, which my colleague Verena Dunst will still talk about, are developing common strategies around the world. I am also very concerned that the pathogens of tuberculosis are becoming increasingly resistant and therefore more difficult to fight. In this context, I would also like to mention the former Vienna financial city councillor Hugo Breitner, who, through an exemplary form of housing construction at the time, helped to annihilate the incubation of tuberculosis by enabling children and young people to grow up in healthy homes. Of course, you practice various sports in beautiful weather, for example cycling, and by wearing suitable helmets you can be very sure to protect yourself from dangerous head injuries. I come from an area where mainly winter sports are operated, and I know that, for example, snowboarding should pay attention to appropriate shoes and that skiing should be properly adjusted, because 45 percent of the rail connections are not correctly adjusted. And many children suffer serious head injuries even when tobogganing. At a time when it is considered "toll" to sit down a little in the social circle after sporting activity and also to consume alcohol, I would like to point out how dangerous alcohol is at the wheel, because of the consequences we hear daily in the news. I think that we in Parliament should really do everything we can to make this happen. We know how bad it is to take alcohol in excess. It has been shown that alcohol significantly affects the ability to react. I am therefore in favour of reducing the 0.8-promille limit to 0.5-promille, and I hope that Parliament will decide accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Minister can't listen!]] I only have a limited speaking time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann.]] I am of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that the fact that many mothers had been subjected to the necessary examinations of the mother-child passport, mainly because of the financial incentives, must be taken seriously. Especially today, when we pursue the goal of equal rights for women, the strengthening of their self-confidence and their role in society, I think that such a negative statement is just as counterproductive. Similarly, I must firmly oppose the repeated statement regarding the feared depreciation of the mother-child passport by the absence of a financial reward, since the reward must be seen, not in cash benefits, but in the joy of a healthy child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, I trust that parents, especially women, are well aware of their responsibilities and that the precautionary measures recommended for their children and for the benefit of their children, which are free of charge, will continue to be used. Of course, it is also essential to give children not only a healthy environment but also objectives and values, because only when children and young people have specific plans can they be prevented from taking drugs. Finally, in Austria we have 10,000 drug addicts, 100,000 drug addicts, 300,000 alcohol addicts and 1.6 million nicotine addicts. I believe – and this is also important – that safety measures must also be taken at the workplace. I know that there are security trustees who are exemplary in this sense, as they may be able to prevent risks of stress, but of course also accident hazards. I believe that a healthy workplace and a pleasant working environment can have a decisive impact on whether a person has to take disability pension or can retire in good health. Of course, a balanced diet is also important. It has already been said today: We should feed our body the necessary vitamins in the form of fruits and vegetables. I fear only one thing – and I would also like to mention this here, Mrs Federal Minister: In 1995, 8 700 cases of bacterial food poisoning were reported. This shows once again that you should be more careful about what you take and where you take it. Mr Rasinger has already said this: We need to invest in the prevention, that is the best precautions. I am convinced that the Federal Minister will do so in the future. There was also talk about the need for a little more movement: I am convinced that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will also set up a new movement programme for parliamentarians. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: New armchairs!]] If you're sitting here for 12 to 16 hours, it's certainly not the best. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34650	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34672	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of health policy, of course, is particularly interesting for ecologists when it is discussed at a time when it concerns the issue of genetic technology in this country. I too would like to say a few words on this subject. Before: As far as classical health policy is concerned, I have been following Mr Rasinger's speech with great interest, and I do not think that as a member of the opposition to a member of a government party, I should like to express my almost complete support here. I know the system in America and the United Kingdom too, and it is really terrifying in what direction the trend continues and how many people are going through this system. A person who is able to undergo a banal operation, such as an oesophagus operation, must expect costs from 100 000 S to 150 000 S. And I have personally experienced cases where for this reason an operation could not take place and because of a disease that is so to speak simple today people have almost died. This is a disastrous development. That is why it is very important to talk about structural adjustments or structural changes, to ensure the necessary social network here in Austria, and the necessary basic provision for all, but especially for people with low incomes, in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A particularly important area, which you have quoted, is, of course, the area of prevention – we have also mentioned this in every health debate here – in the field of prevention. I would like to see what you have said here not only one of the many contributions to the overall chapter on the budget, but also that it is precisely the area of prevention, prevention, which is one of the key components of health policy. This enables me to transfer seamlessly to the field of genetic technology. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have extremely disappointed me about your activities or non-activities in the last few weeks. I can say that I am anything but a technology enemy. On the contrary: I believe that the development of sound and low-risk technologies is an absolute necessity. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Mock.]] Especially in the field of environmental technology, this is important, but also everywhere else. As far as genetic engineering is concerned, I think it is necessary to distinguish between medicine and agriculture. And I also believe, as Mr Rasinger said earlier, that there is absolutely scope for genetic technology in the field of medicine. I myself worked in the field of applied microbiology in gene projects, such as insulin. This is no longer a question at all today. Of course, I'm not questioning cancer therapy here either. There is indeed the need to research genetic engineering. This is completely different for me in the field of agriculture, especially what is currently happening here in Austria. The comparison with nuclear technology, particularly with regard to the discussion, is actually true. At the time, it was said: There's no risk, we got everything under control. And as at the time, the advocates today take an altruistic attitude that is absurd to me. Today we hear from many proponents of genetic engineering for the production of food that this would be a great instrument against world hunger. That's so absurd! Anyone who looks at the studies on the specific quantities of food produced recognizes that the problem is not that there are not enough areas of cultivation, but that it is only a question of distribution. It is not about developing a new technique to satisfy the world hunger, but it is about really working on the distribution of the rich countries to the poor countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This proposed argument that genetic engineers want to do for the benefit of humans something in the field of the cultivation of genetically engineered foods is actually perfect. Even during the discussions in the 1980s, when it came to the Green Revolution in the developing countries, we were made aware that this was the instrument, especially for the Third World countries, to make a quantum leap in the field of nutrition policy. Many of what we heard at the time, we know today that it has gone in the completely wrong direction: The soils there are broken, and, of course, because of incredible amounts of pesticides, there has been an incredible intake of pollutants. And now the same producers, who, unfortunately, were able to say this stupidity because of too little contradiction, have not only come to carry out, and tell us that it is necessary to develop pesticides-resistant plants, and that we therefore also need release attempts in Austria – and I find it particularly interesting that this experiment should last ten years in Austria. It is absurd, Mrs Minister – and I do not understand why you are not referring at least to this area – that a company, if it is actually a limited attempt to collect data, wants to have approved it for ten years. I would like to point out once again that, of course, these companies continue to market the pesticides against which they now want to make the plants resistant. It's a huge business here. It is precisely in Europe that we are setting the course, and we are going to see who has the longer breath. So far – and this surprises me, Mrs Minister – Austria has taken a progressive role with the European Union. If you read through your section's comments on the release tests of genetically modified plants in other European countries, it is recognized that you are largely opposed to them. I am therefore surprised that you do not have the courage to do so in Austria. I think you, as a politician, have to report your position – because it is your responsibility, your place of business – to us, the House, too, since, as far as other European countries are concerned, I assume, there have been negative opinions on such release attempts. It is therefore unexplainable to me, therefore, that you do not find our country with a very clear language and, just as Mr Molterer and Mr Bartenstein have said, clearly oppose this attempt and take the appropriate measures in your place. I would like to take an example of the risks and dangers of genetic engineering in the field of agricultural production, because it affects me personally and I myself would be a victim. I have a heavy apple-nut allergy. So everyone who wants to do something bad to me only needs me once without seeing me administer such a food. I get the most serious problems, ranging from suffocation attacks to total breathing distress. But now I have not only such an allergy, but now the 10 percent of the population, and the number is still rising. I have been dealing with allergies for many years, precisely because it affects me relatively strongly. And it can be seen that the question of allergies is, of course, also related to many environmental influences, but that we are now seeing an entirely new dimension for allergics, because many foods are to be genetically modified. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Completely right!]] In concrete terms, for example, a soybean with a nut species is to be crossed from the Brazilian jungle or has already been genetically manipulated, which can actually be life-threatening for people like me who eat such a soybean. This is not a fictitious example, but it happened in America a few months ago. The Pioneer Group in America has had a soybean genetically engineered with a Brazilian paranut, and it has been found in the test subjects – there were indeed people with such a nut allergy including them – that they suddenly had incredible complaints and a real allergy shock, to which I have also been aware of symptoms such as breathlessness up to unconsciousness. But there's something more to it: Not only do these experiments run and these foods are produced, but at least they have not succeeded in marking them. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That's it!]] I know that Austria has taken a more advanced position vis-à-vis the European Union, but what is the benefit of someone like me and my fellow sufferers if we are confronted with foods that are not even marked with which genes from other plants that can be allergic? In particular, food for people who are allergic to certain foods can be relatively unknown and unexpected. I believe that this is one of the many examples to show how absurd and how bad it is to use the instrument of genetic technology in the field of food production, and therefore not only of us Greens, but of many people everywhere, I think, the hope that the demand for you, Mrs Minister, is very clearly opposed to this release attempt, since this is indeed the beginning of a terrible development. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – So much for genetic technology. I would like to make a brief comment on a chapter that concerns you too, namely an up-to-date drinking water nitrate regulation from you. I almost fell off the chair when I saw this draft. You probably know that all of us, including the farmers here, have discussed a lot about nitrates in drinking water. And you all know that it will be a problem for infants, for infants when nitrates are contained in drinking water of more than 50 milligrams per litre. We have been working for years to ensure that a lower limit is also introduced in Austria, namely, 30 milligrams per litre. We have been fighting for this for a long time, and he would have entered into force in 1999. However, there is now a draft of the Minister for Health, and this amendment provides for the low limit value to be set and the limit value of 50 milligrams per litre to all futures. I would like to read to you a paragraph which is also out of place and which is contained in the regulation adopted in 1989. § 3 stated: Those who place drinking water on the market, which has more than 50 milligrams of nitrate per litre, shall immediately inform the consumer and subsequently at least once a year of the levels of the nitrate content of drinking water and of the fact that this drinking water is not suitable for the feeding of infants until the end of the sixth month of life. – This was an advanced and correct regulation and an important measure. This paragraph, however, is totally absent. And the second deterioration is that the low limit of 30 milligrams per litre is also complete and we in Austria obviously have to live up to all times with the higher limit values. Mrs. Minister, that throws us back at least ten years! That's incomprehensible to me! We have discussed so much in this country about nitrates in drinking water, about the burden especially on infants in the particularly affected regions. There is a WHO health limit of 25 milligrams per litre, and in the EU – I know – the limit is 50 milligrams per litre. However, there are still individual countries with lower limits. It does not at all prohibit us from leaving the limit that is adequate for health. The only reason for this is that in recent years you have not managed to change something at the time of input, and therefore it is no wonder that there are still higher quantities in the output, in this case in drinking water. Now, after you see that you can't do it, not until 1999, the limit value is simply "disposing", not only of the drinking water, but also of the information about drinking water, which is loaded with more than 50 milligrams per litre of nitrate. Mrs. Minister! I hope that you will deliver an opinion today on both the genetic technology and the areas that are important to us, such as drinking water, food, all of us, and which we want to continue to live with in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34755	The next speaker is Mr Johann Schuster. – Deputies! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is for the speakers of the opposition parties – they should also benefit from this – to criticize, analyse and make better proposals. However, I am quite surprised that the two doctors in the Freedom Party, Mrs Povysil and Mr Pumberger, have spoken in their statements from the beginning to the end of the label, chaos, insanity, marble palais of social security, of the fact that the Minister has spoken of one fat cap in another and has seen only negative health policy in Austria. I am only surprised that you have not emigrated from Austria if everything is so negative, Mrs Colleague. That really surprises me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: They have already emigrated from Parliament!]] The worry, my concern. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to keep our health and the desire to stay healthy and grow healthy, there is nothing to do with party policy, but it is a priority for all parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Saint-Exupéry said that everyone must be asked what he can do. And here's the question: What can we do to ladies and gentlemen in the nursing service, what can we do to doctors, what can we say to pharmacists, what can they do? High house! We know that if someone – and I suppose it's a patient – visits a pharmacy, this has – at least from my point of view – three different reasons. First: The patient has a prescription from the doctor and dissolves this prescription. Secondly, One does not feel quite well and wants to do something against an announcing disease. Thirdly, One has heard that there is a flu, there is an infectious disease in the region concerned, and one wants to prevent. High house! It is now up to the pharmacist to demonstrate the possibilities, opportunities, but also the limits of the authorized person in a detailed discussion and to offer solutions. And it is interesting that about two thirds of all pharmacies are highly trained women. That is, women have domination there, and we are proud of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be wrong, however, if we were the woman minister, if we were our doctors, if we were the ladies and gentlemen who work in the health professions, we would blame the pharmacists alone for our health. I mean, we can't delegate the concern for our health, but we are ourselves – every single one! – responsible for our health. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if we are talking about cost reduction – one might be the performance-oriented hospital financing model as one wants – I am of the opinion of Mr Leiner that it is up to us that, when it comes to doing so, we can not bring everyone to the hospital, but rather to health care before, and here, in my opinion, the family doctor is a higher priority – the family doctor as a trusted person, as a person who knows the whole family. And if he knows the whole family, mother and father, then it is often easy for him to recognize the disease of the child immediately because he knows that this family is more vulnerable to various diseases. I therefore believe that the family doctor should not be stamped as an infirmary. Unfortunately, the fee depends on the number of health certificates. We should therefore find a different system of fees. The established doctors have a difficult, long training behind them, and they deserve to be credited decently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Since this coalition government has tried to make a right health policy for the next few years, since there has been an agreement on performance-oriented hospital financing, there are many articles in the media and many reports on radio and television broadcasts. For example, a communication reads: We no longer need a Minister of Health, she has no competence, because everything has gone to the countries. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: A double denial is a celebration!]] Next header: Law enforces hospital tourism. Although there are health schools in Austria, graduates are not allowed to work. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Thank God!]] We know that the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Physicians have made a clear statement. It is said that the doctors trained in Austria already cover this area, but they do not have to accept the regulations from Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly analyse the last 25 years of health policy, because they are very interesting. High house! There have been eleven different ministers responsible for health since 1970. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: But not all at once!]] These were: Leodolter, Firnberg, Salcher, Steyrer, Kreuzer, Ferrari-Brunnenfeld, Flemming, Löschnak, Ettl, Ausserwinkler and Krammer. The Minister of Health Dr. Krammer, now member of the Federal Government, has been a minister for two years since this week. Mrs. Minister, congratulations on this "birthday"! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is a good tradition for us in the House when Court of Auditors reports are discussed, or other reports, such as the Green Report, which have done a lot of work to officials, that all speakers are grateful for the performance of these employees in the ministry and in the offices. I would also like to thank all those who work in the human professions, in the health professions, in the pharmacists, in the doctors, because I think they are doing good work for us in Austria, and so it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34894	Mrs Haller is now on the floor. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e34916	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since my time in the Health Committee of this House, I have always been working for a better precautionary medicine. However, I must regret that nothing has been done to improve the health care system in recent years. The per capita effort is still 2 s, and if you consider what follow-up costs you might be able to avoid, then, you have to say, it is simply a bad bill that you employ in Austria. You prefer health policy rather than health policy, and I believe that you too, Mrs Federal Minister, speak. There are two areas in particular which I am currently at my heart from the current occasion. The one is the thing with the mother-child passport. There has already been a gap between mother-child passport and adult health examinations. And today, in the teaching chapter, it has already been pointed out several times that this gap should be more closed by school sport. Now the following thing has happened: The government's savings package has led to the complete removal of the birth aid, which was practically the condition for the timely execution of these precautions. The fear that this mother-child passport will only have a purely formal value in the future by removing the birth grant, which, I believe, one must admit to us as oppositional politicians. It is certainly not an obligation to mothers if one fears that in the future these dates will no longer be respected, that the motivation of mothers for these investigations and for the full prevention programme will no longer be the same, even lower. This saving measure has caused the mother-child passport to be devalued. And especially in this mother-child passport, not only do I see, but I believe, the health politicians as a whole, the cause of the relatively high standard of the current paediatric system in Austria. That is to say, it is certainly very short-sighted that we have just taken this measure, and it is to be feared that this measure will start to act as a kind of anti-health package. I have so far missed your voice in this area, Mrs Health Minister, but also the voices of SPÖ and ÖVP health politicians. Mr Bartenstein has proposed a malus system for child support in order to be able to fix something here. To this end, I must say: I can't be for that. We liberals would much rather support a bonus system. For example, my colleague, Landauer, from Vienna, said that one should perhaps consider introducing a bonus in the field of social security contributions. I would like to make another proposal. Perhaps you could pay this bonus – perhaps you can make reflections in this direction, Mrs. Federal Minister – in naturalities, a bonus for additional investigations that you can include in this mother-child passport. We liberals have already proposed years ago to include neuroblastom screening in the mother-child passport. It has been said to me that even through this screening, not all cases would be recognized if one carried out this comprehensively, but only if one considered that those cases, which would then be recognized at an early stage, would also produce financial benefits – for example, by the disappearance of chemotherapy and so on – then, I believe, this approach would be superior. On the field of mukoviscosis: Some time ago, I asked you what the Ministry of Health has done in this area. You have answered me that the amount of 20 000 S has once been spent on research. That's very, very sparse. Maybe you could think about including the mucoviscidosis in the mother-child passport. Costs in this area would be absolutely within the scope. They would amount to 17 million schilling for Austria. There is already an offer for this in three federal states. Especially through the early recognition of the Mukovizidosis – I know this because I have such a case in my own family – there is a real chance for the child concerned to live a life-worthy life as possible, one can at least reduce the disease so that the child has a certain life expectancy. I would ask you, and I will also address Mr Bartenstein in this regard, to consider this because I believe that these additional offers would be financially eligible to sell them positively as a compensation for the disadvantages that the removal of the birth grant has brought. I have another concern in the field of prevention, namely in the prevention of addiction. Mrs. Federal Minister! In its 1995 budget, the approach has been reduced from 30.5 million schilling to 26.8 million schilling, almost 4 million schilling. We all know that the drug addicts, the drug deaths, are getting younger and younger, that a new drug wave has already flooded Austria and that there are already long waiting times for patients. On Tuesday this week, the Council of Ministers decided on the Novelle Addiction Act, which will bring about an intensification in this area. It is therefore intended to convert the prescribed penalty of three years into a conditional penalty only when a dependent perpetrator is willing. It must be borne in mind that the three - year penalty is only for heavy dealers, and it is only his willingness to do so. I'm wondering, Where is the accompanying measure? At least one has to provide treatment places, but the ministry has less money available than before. That can't be it, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer.]] We liberals have tabled a motion for a resolution which I shall now present and which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] However, I have yet another motion for a resolution on a subject which I have already discussed in the past and which my previous speaker, Mr Schuster, has also mentioned. Especially in the border area, in Kufstein, where I come from, there are still – it has always existed – people who visit medical practitioners in neighbouring Germany. As we join the EU, it has been colported that in the future healing practitioners will also be admitted in Austria. However, the practice of this profession is still prohibited in Austria, and I hope, for my part, that this ban will not be repealed either. You yourself have already documented that this would not be in your mind. But now the following happens: The training schools in Austria have developed a strong advertising activity for this training, and they are even required for these training courses up to 80 000 S. I am therefore entitled to bring in the following motion for a resolution - I hope, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35036	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Haller are sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. Mrs Pittermann has now been mentioned. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35060	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The "Arct 1" from Ried, who struggled for years against the KRAZAF and for the "1" and the blue phallus on the car roof was on it – LKF entered, of course, must now be against the performance-oriented hospital funding, for he is the spirit who always denied, although I had to search the mind intensively in his speech and found little. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Doctor 3!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] He wouldn't, he wouldn't bring the same thoughts forever; I miss new ideas and points of view. His allegations are no longer given to the truth, the more often they are repeated. What brings more private and less state, we now also see in the Vienna dairy supply. The sufferers are mostly children, the sick and the old. Similarly, these groups will be the sufferers in insurance instead of compulsory insurance, because private insurance always try to maximize profits, they are customer-friendly, carry low risks and have high premiums; as is the case with pension insurance. That is why I say once and for all a clear yes to social security! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you feel so over-privileged by social security, then you are free to relinquish the cash contracts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr Petrovic mentioned the need to regulate the extent to which life-longer measures must be taken. This is in itself a good idea, only one can say as a politician that it is very easy to say when the life-sustaining machines have to be turned off as long as you are not forced to do so yourself. And it is not easy for a doctor to say, if he is convinced that there is still life there, such as in the case of a fetus: You have to turn this machine off now. I don't think that's very easy and not very easy to control. During the study of the budget estimates, I was shocked that about a third of the national defence budget was estimated at federal health funds. The health is still the highest good of people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== April 1996 was to be read that for the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, the Austrian pharmaceutical industry is a gem in the industrial policy landscape, a hope industry, a very strongly increasing industry. I wonder whether the Secretary-General is aware of the fact that increasing profits in the pharmaceutical industry must necessarily lead to higher health expenditure, or will he then compensate for them by reducing health care personnel? His opinion on the law on working time for doctors was negative, as he feared more costs. To operate medicine human while reducing costs in increasing profits of the pharmaceutical industry through personnel savings in the health sector is the square of the circle. Nor should it be known to the Secretary-General that the Austrian Working Time Act in the field of private hospitals has long been valid, but is constantly being broken. From various sides, it is now recommended that, in the case of bagatal diseases, not the doctor, but the pharmacist should be consulted and treated by him. What's a "bagatell disease"? – As a bagatell disease, meningococcal sepsis begins, leukemia begins, many severe diseases begin. The Social Democratic Group certainly does not accept the responsibility of sending patients to the pharmacist for cost savings instead of to the doctor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are proud of our health system, which allows even the poorest medical care. That is why we were Social Democrats – and I know that from my father – always for the maintenance of this spatial spatial paragraph, only in the sickly "Eastmark" times of the "thousand-year-old empire" medical practitioners were allowed. I am therefore very grateful to the Federal Minister for the fact that she is so vehemently opposed to the medical practice and to the health schools. How can one learn in two years, for which others need at least nine, twelve or more years to have solid basic knowledge? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Accept our request!]] What do we need health practitioners in Austria for? I understand China needs barefoot doctors. The huge population there is not yet sufficiently supplied with doctors, but there are enough doctors in Austria. Using healing practitioners to provide German health practitioners with sources of income is not a sense of responsibility. I would like to thank you once again, Mrs Federal Minister, for your determination to oppose this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Recently, the media have been told that a federal state wants to reduce doctors' offices, that gymnastics have to provide the service at night to several departments, and that medical services should be reduced in the hospitals. That's contrary to the doctor's law. In recent times, reports of defects of art have abounded, which are primarily the consequences of the medical and technical oversupply of the doctors. It is a disastrous development in a service profession, which must provide patients with increasingly severe illness in the hospitals to save staff. The reduction of costs is possible. The cheapest patient is the one who dies quickly – but never can be the political goal. While teachers' costs, according to a report by today's "Wiener Zeitung", consume more than 90 percent of the cost of the teaching budget, the total staff costs in the hospital sector are not quite 60 percent. My wish, especially as a doctor, that knows about the fatal consequences of the lack of a specialist's presence, is to reward hospitals that work in accordance with the law. We have sworn unbreakable fidelity of the Republic and its laws at our fishing-observation as Members of Parliament, so we cannot tolerate violations of laws. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats want a humane medical care for all citizens. We do not want the poorer from the healer or from the untrained gymnist in the 60. hours of service, while the privileged person may choose a sufficiently trained and well-rested physician for his treatment. The safety and health of each patient is a priority. That is why I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for her legislative proposal on pharmacovigilance and the regulation on transfusion medicine. It is important to detect medicinal product damage quickly in order to verify or prevent further use. According to Goethe, blood is "a very special juice" – it's even more, it's an organ. As we have recently learned, there are still fatal transfusion incidents, so we need to reduce the risk of transfusion. For reasons of patient safety and sparingness, the use of foreign blood should be minimized. Postpartal transfusion, i.e. blood transfusion for anaemic women after birth, must only be more medical history. Unfortunately, according to the principle of "God give us a long life and the labour force of women" she is still administered to women, so that they can obtain their full labour force already in the weekly bed and fulfil their budgetary obligations immediately after the discharge of the hospital. The introduction of the LKF is a quantum leap in health policy. Accompanying controls that prevent the disadvantage of patients with poor risks, as well as ongoing quality controls are essential. I am convinced that these controls will be carried out in an excellent way by the Ministry of Health and that our health system will continue to be among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35162	Mr Dr. Pumberger spoke on an actual correction. Mr deputies, please begin with the correction with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Pittermann has claimed that the Ried-"Artzt 1" is now suddenly opposed to the performance-oriented health care fund. This is not true. In fact, I believe that in the past I have always spoken out for the benefit-oriented health care fund, and will do so now and in the future too, but I have expressed the scepticism that now not primarily a performance-oriented but diagnostic-oriented funding is being introduced. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is the correction?]] I have my justified scepticism, because the diagnosis-oriented funding of the hospitals will still lead to great inconsistencies, it may not reorganise our hospitals. [[Abg. Dr Mertel: Where is the correction, Mr President?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35236	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35257	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As well as Mrs Pittermann, if I look at the budget in the health field, I cannot be at all. Mrs Pittermann seems to have overlooked the drastic saving measures in the health field, particularly in the field of precautionary measures. I think it should be known to everyone that, if the precautions are no longer guaranteed and are saved in this area, the cost of the follow-up will never be estimated. But one thing is certain: The follow-up costs will be enormously higher than they would have been properly invested in the prevention. I can give you a few examples. – They have been talking about the fight against drug abuse for years, and this has been set up in your budget in the field of tasks for years. I wonder how you want to deal with the fight against drug abuse for 1996 and 1997 when you cut the budget by 5 million schilling in this area. It will not be possible to make progress in this area, quite the contrary: The fight against drug abuse will be drastically reduced in the near future. I see the greatest danger in the area of mother-child-pass care, which is now no longer available. Mrs Minister, I do not know how far you have read the studies, but since the introduction of the mother-child passport examination and the birth grant, the mortality rate in children is up to 12. A significant decrease in the month. I believe that now that you no longer have this incentive of birth aid in conjunction with the mother-child passport to increase infant mortality in Austria. You were once asked how you see it, and you said: Nothing's going to happen. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I didn't say that!]] I'll give it to you. I got it here. Mrs Minister, I tell you, something is going to happen, especially in the area of pregnancies. This is a very important area. I think it was only possible that way or especially there it was possible. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: That remains free!]] But there's no longer that incentive, he liked it. And if there is no incentive, the number of investigations will also decrease. Mrs. Minister, you'll see. We will hopefully be able to talk about it again in a year, and then you will see that the use of the precautionary examination has fallen within the framework of the mother-child passport. I guarantee you. And I also guarantee you that infant mortality will increase again. I fear that it will come so far that the prevention and early recognition of disabled children will also go back. Because there has now been massive deterioration in this area, it is undisputed. You've managed to get the KRAZAF in some way. But only one, Mrs. Minister: You have also managed to avoid your health responsibility. You have given your skills to the countries as a whole. They have cleared themselves of the area of KRAZAF, the funding of hospitals, and thus the fact of how it is in hospitals. You passed this on to the countries as a whole. I just don't think that's right. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: This is simply and grippingly wrong!]] I know that you will not achieve the success you have planned in the next few years with this new system of hospital financing, because no quality controls and quality assurance measures have been completed for this new performance-oriented hospital financing. There are no articles-15a contracts with the countries that regulate what competences you still have. They simply and simply "refused" this area for themselves and the Ministry of Health, leaving it to 100 percent to the countries. That is why I am putting the Health Finance Act in place. I believe that this measure is a minimum measure in order only to be able to control how the new system of benefits will develop. [[Quoted print version removed]] An area which is also very important to me and which has taken a risky view of BSE cases over the last few weeks. I have just read a few studies in the last few weeks, and I have noticed that medications with cattle components, for example, have led to disabilities, such as dwarf growth. I was very amazed at that, for example, since 1960, when I was seven or eight years old, I have been supplied with medicines made of rubbed calf and beef bones, and I have remained a dwarf growth. And, Mrs. Minister, I just want to tell you: I have now become much, much clearer in recent weeks and months, why nothing has actually been done in the field of research in the field of disability in recent decades. I believe – and this is justified – that the great fear will come to mind that many of the obstacles that have been present and will still occur in the coming years are coming exactly from the field of genetic technology, from dealing with drugs that are poor to inestimable. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to start research into the causes of various disabilities in relation to existing disabilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is to be feared that in the next few years BSE will make disabilities and diseases even more frequent and more diverse. I therefore put to the vote a second motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this measure, too, is an essential condition for consumers in Austria to be able at last to better orient themselves to what they eat and what they can buy. The current names on food are insufficient and poor and are a label for consumers that they cannot decipher, so that they never know what they are buying. Mrs. Minister! They have made a serious savings, which will probably have a very bad effect in the next few years. They have also reduced the resources for the exercise of their activities in the field of self-help, i.e. self-help organisations, such as the Diabetics Association, the women's self-help according to Krebs et cetera. I believe that we must be very aware that these self-help organisations are very necessary and that this area cannot be covered by physical therapists and the like, because these persons support each other in their self-help groups and can offer mutual solutions. If you are now again financially cutting down self-help groups and no longer giving them the opportunity to talk about their problems and fears, then the inflow to psychologists will probably abound accordingly. Because it can't be that you leave people who are affected by cancer alone, that you are people who are diabetics. They cannot want these people to have no contact persons to talk to about their problems. In 1996 I could still understand that the funds will also be reduced for self-help groups et cetera. But for me, it is unimaginable that in 1997, where the KRAZAF is no longer available in the sense, you do not allow the funds from the cuts you made in 1996 for the self-help sector to be returned to the self-help associations. There would be more money again, because you just have the resources out of the KRAZAF. But you're not willing to share what you're taking back this year with these organizations again next year. There is still a lot to be said about health care. Mrs Minister, you know, and we have also discussed it very carefully in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in Austria. If you need additional support in any areas that you do not yet know and that affect disabled people, I can definitely offer you my experience. For me, it would be important for us to make it possible to find common ground in such a way that the group of those concerned – no matter if they are disabled, old or sick – is assured in such a way that they really have the opportunity to live decently in human beings – and also to die decently. And for that, you have my willingness to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35368	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr are sufficiently supported. They will be involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mrs Sauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35392	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Health and consumer protection is the subject to be discussed here today. I would like to focus very briefly on the Federal Hospital Plan, from the point of view of my narrower home, the Waldviertel. High house! We in Waidhofen/Thaya are setting up a new hospital – i.e. the third stage of expansion of a hospital – where two departments, the internal department and the urology, are under construction. I now hear – and this is a matter of concern to me – that, even if a hospital is newly built, it is talking about moving a station again. Mrs. Federal Minister! In view of the expansion costs of 350 million Schilling, which have already been approved by the country for the purpose of carrying out this construction, I would like to ask you to once again consider this relocation. A second one: With regard to this hospital, a company was commissioned by the State of Lower Austria, which calculates the costs in the Lower Austrian hospitals. It has shown that this hospital in Waidhofen is working extremely cost-effectively, in the sense of the new cost-benefit accounting for these hospitals. Urology is also one of the best in Lower Austria. That is not self- praise, but that is the result of this calculation. I am of course very proud of the development in this hospital as a Waidhofner, you can believe me. We need two or three things, ladies and gentlemen, or actually four – this is already happening today –: the precautionary medicine, the acute treatment and the after-treatment. In post-treatment, of course, there is also a lot of talk about rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is very essential for those who can and should be integrated into normal life again. Of course, you have the right – and we have the duty from the legislation – to reintegration. These rehabilitation projects are a special issue for me in this context: the after-supply of strokes. There is a lot of talk about this, and I hope that these plans, which can already be implemented, will be completed on a daily basis. The next are daily clinics: In Gänserndorf is a day hospital in planning. I am glad that we are also considering this possibility and developing the daily clinics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition to all these facilities, however, medical care – especially in the country – is a very essential factor. In this medical care, however, it is also important that the doctor who goes to the country can also earn something, because only if he can earn something, he will come to us too. In this regard, I would particularly like to refer to the additional possibility of merit by the house pharmacies, which the doctors have in our country and which are a real close-up care in the health field. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a farmer, the subject of consumer protection is at my heart in different directions. We have a very high health status among our animals, and I would like to point out that it does not deserve Austrian quality, Austrian produced products in any way to be insecured by Austrian consumers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Yes! That's right!]] I think that is really essential. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If Members of this House, who are still veterinarians in this regard, are always referring to the fact that meat produced in Austria is to be enjoyed with caution, because this BSE story appears again and again, then I wonder whether these veterinarians have long been no longer in practice, otherwise they would have to know that the health status of Austrian cattle – especially in the breeding sector – is very high and that Austria has worked exemplaryly in this field and has not made these things happen at all. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Probably!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In my opinion, consumer protection is something that must have nothing to do with uncertainty. If someone here turns out and laments that the Austrian farmers cannot market their animals, that the Austrian farmers do not bring their livestock to the man, not to the consumer, but at the same time to talk about how harmful this meat is, then I must ask whether they are doing a good job for the farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35466	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35488	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In order to respond immediately to the comments made by my previous speakers: Mr Sauer. I fully agree with you that Austrian products, Austrian meat, are 100% in order. But you simply cannot rule out the fact that, since we are a member of the European Union, contaminated or sick meat has been imported into Austria. And it is unfortunately God's request until the hour, Mr. Sauer – which the liberals have already done often enough – that live animals transports, wherever they come from the EU area, roll daily across Austria's borders. The animals are then slaughtered in Austrian slaughterhouses, Mr. Kaiser, and then they have the A stamp on it. This is fact, Mr. Kaiser. You can't press that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kaiser and Mr Sauer. You cannot rule out the fact that live animal transports from Great Britain, which have been exported to Belgium, France, to Germany until recently, from there came to us as German or French cattle. We must be clear that we have come across the borders of the free market economy. The health of our people, Mr Kaiser, has been sacrificed to the benefit of some less! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can't hear the speeches from the "mortal consumer", Mrs Minister, and I mean you, really no longer! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Why not?]] Why? Now I'm telling you: They are constantly talking about the powerful consumer. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Sure!]] Do you know the code numbers for the country of origin, the so-called e-numbers, Mr. Colleague? Do you know her? For example, what is the code number for Germany? Mrs. Minister! The country of origin by code, the first three digits. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 5663!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: 5663!]] No, no, no, How is it from Greece? - 520. Or how is she from Britain, Mrs Minister, where you really conjure that no meat products come from the UK to Austria? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: No chance!]] How does the consumer in the code recognize the country of origin, Mrs. Minister? [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: There are lists!]] No, no, Mrs. Minister! You don't know the code numbers, nor do your colleagues from the ÖVP and the SPÖ, but you're talking about the expensive consumer all the time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't know! But talking about the powerful consumer, Doctor, is it true? [[Interventions and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – Additives, irradiated products, genetically modified products: We'll get it all in. For example, the label for irradiated products. Mrs. Minister! They are responsible for health and consumer protection. But you have not yet committed yourself to the fact that at least in the European Union there is an obligation to label irradiated products. We get irradiated products, for example potatoes – I'm just counting EU countries now – from Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain. And the consumer simply has no idea when buying these products, whether they have been irradiated or not. Mrs. Federal Minister! It won't take much longer today, stay a few minutes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: But I'd love to listen to you!]] Yeah, but you're getting upset all the time. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Do nothing!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Their predecessor, Minister Extraserwinkler, has authorised a quantity of additives and dyes prohibited in Austria until 1993, in the context of the EEA accession to Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: This is the G’s layer!]] No, no, not: "That's the G's layer!" That is the point, Mr Kaiser. You with your A-Pickerl, you can be nice slow... well! Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: What?]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Smear to the hair!]] Minister Ausserwinkler has given me the following answer to the question of why he has so far allowed prohibited additives – and that is interesting –: The EEA Treaty requires Austria to include in the corresponding Regulation the following additives which have not yet been included in the relevant Regulations and which are not authorised by decision. – That means: Only the EEA Treaty was the reason to allow prohibited additives so far, Mrs Minister! I have to say that the dictatorship of the food industry or the market is simply sacrificed in pieces to health. Who needs this durability of our products? Who needs these dyes? Who needs these taste enhancers? – Only the food industry, because they do not benefit consumers at all! The food companies need these manipulations in our food – "food" can hardly be said about these products. They need these additives in order to keep food through long journeys in order to keep them long, and the lack of taste intensity – due to production with a lot of chemistry – is balanced with taste enhancers, and thus the consumer is simply deceived. It is really not enough that in the event of crises, for example in the case of rabies, politicians are eating exactly those products that are currently in disrepute in the media. In front of you, Mrs. Federal Minister, also English ministers and politicians are already in front of running cameras with their children of English beef – English beef! – ate to prove to consumers that it is safe. And while you, Minister of Agriculture, have eaten table tip with Mr Molterer – also in front of the camera – Commissioner – your "good" Commissioner! – Fischler in the Tyrolean mountains announces his favourite meat: English beef. – And there should be another consumer to know! That's a total chaos! Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Krammer.]] You can't do that, that's right. I'm just asking you: How is the consumer still to know? And how does the consumer react, Mrs. Bauer? How does the consumer in Austria react? How does he react? - He doesn't buy beef! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: We've heard that three times!]] Yeah, we've heard that three times. It is not even interested in the effects of such a policy on the Austrian cattle farmers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Don't show me! You mean someone else!]] - I mean someone else. I am only surprised that the colleague of the SPÖ is so vehemently opposed, but perhaps she did not think so. You rejected yesterday in the main committee a request from the liberals that the Austrian cattle farmers, who in fact can no longer sell a piece of beef that is really in front of the bankruptcy – will destroy existences! –, were compensated. They have rejected the request that Austrian cattle farmers should also be compensated from the EU market regulation! [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] But the English cattle farmers get in return for the slaughter of a sick cattle over 4,000 s and the Austrian farmers – like old, my friend, you voted against yesterday in the main committee, as did Schwarzenberger and Co. – not a single schilling! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And why not the Austrian farmers?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do the ÖVP farmers say?]] Just a short while on genetic engineering: Mrs. Minister! In the near future, they will have to make one of the most serious and important political decisions that a health minister has ever had to make in this country, and I mean genetic engineering. I would like to ask you, in the interests of the health of our people and the future of our children: Go with your office very carefully, and try to free yourself from those chemical companies that want to make billions of businesses that want to earn billions of money while the damage would have to carry the entire population! [[Call the ÖVP: What? Which one?]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35783	Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e35805	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the first speaker of the FPÖ, colleague Pumberger, with his contribution to the financing of hospitals, wanted to provide evidence of ignorance and incompetence, he could do so in a very impressive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without doing the necessary homework, he talks about hospital economy in the usual style of the "F"... – Mr. Haigermoser, look, you have no idea at all! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Give your hands out of the pocket when you talk to us!]] You don't even know how to write "hospital"! As a result, please stay out of it, that would be much better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I will now try to communicate to colleagues Pumberger at least some details in the short term, so that he knows at all what it was about in the model experiment and what it should achieve. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – Mr. Dr. Pumberger! Listen Now you're abominable at my words, so that you don't go through as ignorant people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What were the conditions for the model project in Vorarlberg? – The region’s perceptibility, hardly any patient fluctuations in other federal states. There, too, you said you were stupid. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I have the suspicion that you have written the speech yourself!]] - I wrote it myself. You know, unlike you, I write it myself, because I think I understand something about it, and you just have a sense of frustration because you don't understand it. That's the problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr. Haigermoser! There's an old saying, that's, "Haigermoser, stay with your performance!" – Your performance is incompetence, hatred, cynicism, mockery and ridicule. It's just like that. You can't, when someone's out here, listen to those words once in a row. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Where is the applause?]] I admit that you can't understand everything – that's nothing bad either, Mr Haigermoser – but as childish and affable as you do, it shows once again that it is not compatible with the dignity of this House that you sit here. That's so simple! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] Let me continue: There were excellent hospital structures with a focus on four local hospitals, a dense network of established doctors with explosive readiness and an exemplary infrastructure in the outpatient and stationary care sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Under these conditions, Mr Dr. Pumberger, all those involved have joined forces with the Minister of Health and, as has been said, have formulated a pilot project, which has, as it were, assumed that hospital financing, the new model, will work. We also assume that it will not bring those cost savings, how many have believed, I am still d’accord with you. [[Abg. Kiss: I wouldn't let Haigermoser insult me like that!]] It's not that bad! – But with the old method, financing would be even less guaranteed. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What were the objectives of this pilot project? – No limitation of quality and quantity in patient care, the reduction of the number of hospitalisations, the reduction of the length of stay, the reduction of the number of acute beds, the pre-drivement of structural measures and the reduction of cost increases. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's where your own coalition partner laughs!]] – That doesn't matter, he can laugh quietly. What are the preliminary results of 1995? – decrease in the number of stationary recordings, for the first time for a number of years or for years a change in the number of hospitals; decrease in the number of day-to-day work and care – this automatically leads to the release of bed capacity, which may be partially reduced or added to new destination purposes; reduction in the length of residence for low baseline values compared to other federal states; Increase your daily and day-to-day surgical performance by 13 percent – which is also very important, that is also okay – and an increase in the number of redundancies on Friday. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] The first results are, of course, positive. This development provides the basis for necessary structural changes. However, far-reaching restructurings, which lead to significant cost changes, can only be implemented if this performance-oriented model is, so to speak, secured and spread throughout Austria. That's what we want! - Yes, it's all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Then why did you criticize it that way? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I just pointed out that the savings in the introduction of the LKF will be zero – according to Minister Krammer!]] No one has said that, of course, it is clear that we have always said so. That was the goal of this pilot project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Dr. Pumberger! Of course, there have also been miscodings in the beginning! This is clear when you change a system completely, and this has led to major problems in the short term. This has been corrected in the middle of the year, and then there have been only relatively few missing encodings. The biggest problems were then cleared. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You talk so Carinthian!]] - Right! That's me too! It's nothing bad! You should know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's it, Mr. Stadler. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You should have said that right away!]] Dr. Pumberger! In the first year already to expect financial impact, it is also not necessarily evidence of great economic expertise. I must also refer to that. They have also claimed that private individuals can do everything better. I may be able to explain this because I don't want to hear it anymore: Health expenditure, ladies and gentlemen of the "F", totals just over 9 per cent in Austria, as measured by GDP, which is quite the average of the industrialised countries. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We have often heard of this from your speakers!]] Really? – That doesn’t matter, then I’ll repeat it again so you can finally understand. That's something, isn't it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Compared with countries without social security systems, Austria is cutting off very cheaply. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do not be offended when the return carriage comes!]] - That doesn't matter. I know this is coming, Mr Mag. Stadler!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36076	I'm sorry, but we don't have a current hour among the Members, so to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36103	This shows that there must be a certain degree of competence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to the topic: For example, the costs of the U.S. health system – and this is mainly financed by private insurance and self-interest – are quite 3 percentage points higher than that of Austria. And that despite the fact – that has already been said by Dr. Rasinger today – that 40 million Americans are without health insurance. This means that countries that do not have social security systems are by no means slender, efficient, productive and economical in health care – and, of course, no fairer and more decent, and that is what matters. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: colleague Rasinger has already said a lot more!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the "F" still applies to us, a clear commitment to the supporting pillars of social health insurance: The principle of benefit in kind and solidarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Can you read the passage with the 40 million non-insurance Americans in Austria again?]] – Later, I’ll come back to it again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is such a scum! Because if Austria has only 8 million inhabitants, that cannot be quite true!]] I said yes, in America. You didn't listen to my words again, Mr. Stadler! That's your problem. In conclusion: The model project in Vorarlberg shows us clearly that the LKF model was the first necessary step in the right direction. As a result of this development, the basis for necessary structural changes that will lead to cost changes is precisely what you require. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore be to maintain the high standard of medical care in Austria, which I consider to be a fundamental right for all Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36180	The next item is Mrs Dunst's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36201	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on health. One issue is the problem of drugs, and the second issue – unfortunately closely related – is AIDS. The statistics on drugs certainly do not give rise to any jubilation. The problem of drugs has grown to a menacing size in recent years. Fortunately, however, this also involves the effective fight against drug gangs by the executive, and in recent years it has succeeded in crushing numerous drug rings. But, of course, it is not enough to put the dealers behind the lock and bars, because drug problems must be used at several levels. At the criminalist level, the two cracking points are the control of trade with precursors on the one hand and the rigorous fight against money laundering on the other. In my opinion, this fight can only be won at international level, and for that, the EU is thanking God the best conditions. At national level, health policy must work. It is also important that the fight against the addiction is not going to be fought against the addict. It is important to increase the social acceptance of drug patients. Drug abuse must be treated as a disease and the discriminated patient must be raised to a normal level. In this direction, the new drug law should also go. A first step has already been taken with the adoption of a government template on 23. It was set up by the Council of Ministers in April and by the rules on addictions and precursors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will be a number of health-related improvements, such as the improvement of the treatment and care of people with disabilities under the term "health-related measures". In addition to medical treatment and monitoring of the health status, other measures such as psychotherapy or social therapeutic care will also become more important in the future. Similarly, the principle of "treatment instead of punishment" should be further extended. In view of the positive experience gained with voluntary weaning treatment while delaying a prison sentence, this principle should be applied. Condemnations related to the so-called accompanying crime should no longer be opposed to therapy. But above all one wants to get the so-called powder scene under control, because so far psychotropic substances have moved in the right-hand space. Now you want to get hold of this scene. The new law on addiction also aims to improve the legal anchoring of pain therapies. All these measures will make it possible to significantly improve the situation of addictions, but also pain patients. In addition to this theoretical level of the creation of better legal bases, for example, the Ministry of Health is working on the ground, for example in the promotion of so-called § 22 facilities. The 50 such initiatives will be promoted in Austria. Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, on behalf of all those who need these initiatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, I would like to mention some of these initiatives: For example, the dialogue, assistance and advice centre for drug users – but also for their families, who need advice – in Vienna, or the workshop for addiction prophylaxis in Götzis are two examples of many. As part of these initiatives, the aim is to help the already ill, as well as to keep healthy people in mind how easy it is to fall asleep in this disease. The disease of AIDS is of course immediately linked to the drug problem. In the 1,500 AIDS cases known in Austria, drug addicts are third-place drug addicts with 12 per cent – extremely high. They were overtaken by homosexuals in these sad statistics, while the heterosexuals are at the forefront of the new infections. The increase in heterosexual transmission means that every fourth HIV new infection now affects a woman. This, of course, is expected to result in an increased transmission from the mother to the child. As with drug policy, it is also important to work at several levels, on the one hand by increasing awareness and on the other hand by providing concrete assistance to AIDS victims. In this respect, the support fund for patients is particularly important for those who have already been addressed by medical treatment – Mrs. Pittermann – or because of their professional activity HIV-infected, and also for their families. For the future too, the promotion of this fund remains an important concern of the Ministry of Health, as Mrs Minister said in the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thus, in addition to the pharmaceutical industry, intensive efforts have been made to involve countries in the support of those concerned. In 1995, for example, the Austrian Red Cross was also able to participate. The grants of the Red Cross are used to provide assistance to persons infected by transfusion of contaminated blood products – Colleague Pittermann has also mentioned this – of the Red Cross. Over the next two years, support from the Fund of 10 million Schilling from the Ministry of Health will be provided for. High house! Of course, all the funds of this fund and the best advisory bodies cannot undo the illness and problems of these two groups. That is why we should all have the goal of increasing our awareness. All of us who are public are particularly required in this respect, and I do not want to exclude anyone from it. This requirement is not a requirement of the liberals. Mr Pumberger! I don't get around saying that. I've been thinking about whether or not to say that. But I was really deeply disappointed when I heard that you, Mr Pumberger, said in December last year that AIDS aid should be abolished when it was said that it had to be forced. Incredible! I can't imagine you said that. I've been researching, I've been reading and finding it's right. I think that's what I'm going to do. You're not necessarily proud! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope that we do not find many Members in this House who also represent this House, because otherwise a targeted prophylaxis could not grasp. Drugs and AIDS simply need to be understood in such a way that this can happen to any one of us. No one is against it. Only in this way can the broad mass of the population be made sensitive to this problem. And only in this way can prevention be useful, especially in a disease such as AIDS. I am at the end of my remarks, but I would like to say something that Mr Onodi has already done today, for example, about the bad conduct of the liberals. One speaks of culture, also of communication with one another. I'd like to bring you a little more to hear. I've seen, Deputies Stadler isn't here now. It has hurt me - I do not want to say the word, I have heard it unfortunately, and many Members of my group also - that Mr Stadler has said this in the direction of Mr Onodi, who spoke outside. I ask you from the liberals as his colleagues, please direct this to him. If he's got some morals, he'll apologize to her. - I'm waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36311	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36332	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the contributions have today dealt with a performance-oriented financing system. I can still deal with two points of view. With the introduction of the KRAZAF, the financing of hospitals, limited in time by the federal government and countries, has been regulated in the past. This practice will become another from 1997 onwards by introducing performance-oriented financing. This will also limit the cost increase as much as possible. This objective is to be achieved in particular by reducing the number of patients and by reducing the length of stay. This means, on the one hand, shifting medical activity from the hospital to the extramural sector, and on the other hand, ensuring minimum social and health standards. Both are, as I do, necessary measures, but they will still be very busy for us. The shift in activity from hospitals requires that, on the one hand, there be clarity about what is being done where the principle is: "As many outpatient as possible, and as much stationary as necessary!" It does not abuse the distribution of incomes and that there is a comprehensive supply of practitioners and, above all, specialists. I see some problems here because the current monopolistic ritual opposes a necessary freedom of establishment. Many communities strive – not least because of repeated complaints due to poor reachability of doctors, long waiting times for appointments, long waiting times in ordinations – to settle specialists. The basic position of the health insurance companies and the medical board prevents such a settlement or at least makes it very difficult. The basic attitude of the health insurance companies is that more doctors mean more health certificates and more costs, and the basic position of the doctor's board expresses that there are enough doctors and that they are to be represented by the doctor's chamber. I can give you an example at this point that I have experienced myself. My community is trying to establish a specialist, it's about a dentist. The health insurance fund supports our desire, the doctor's chamber says a basic no – with all possible and impossible excuses: There are enough doctors that the viability of the practice was not given, and already established doctors are at risk. – In this connection, I do not want to talk about ordination times, villas or hobbies of these "hazardous" doctors. The representatives of the dentists, on the other hand, are – on the grounds that all the surrounding established dentists speak against it and that the doctor's representative, as it is the representative of these doctors, cannot therefore be in favour. I allowed myself to discuss the problem with established doctors as a result. There is a pairs of dentists about five kilometres away. He works with a contract, she wants a contract, but the health insurance fund is against it. This dentist, on the other hand, has spoken out on the grounds that this is so long until the high level of investment has been repaid through the purchase of houses and the establishment of the ordination. All the other doctors from the area who were spoken to did not mind the reason that they had enough work, but also the addition that if one is against it, they are solidarian. And so they were all against it. I've been confronted with this with the dentist's representative. It was done with the fact that everywhere else is spoken and that they speak differently before him. But after a longer discussion, he saw a solution to the problem. He said if the above - mentioned dentist is ordained in our congregation, then we could quickly have the contract. – That is how it works, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot imagine that the new system will work with this old practice. Therefore, we will have to consider a way towards actual freedom of establishment. A few sentences for shorter stay. This will undoubtedly increase the need for domestic and municipal care. In order to meet this need, the countries have already concluded an Article 15a agreement in connection with the Care Money Act in 1993 with the obligation to provide for a minimum standard of outpatient, part-stationary and stationary services. I am convinced that this care system will only work within and with the communities. I also know that the communities are ready to participate with all their strength, opportunity and experience. However, they are not allowed to receive funding, as I believe. I know that kind of thing. 10 of this 15a agreement states that the effort must be borne by the countries. However, we know the practice in the field of waste management recently, where communities have been legally required to acquire expensive facilities. In fact, the commitment to replace the costs of setting up, maintaining and operating has been designed in such a way that long amounts of support have been received by the local authorities or that there has been no cost-effective payment. I know it doesn't necessarily have to happen this way everywhere, but I still wanted to point out that. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that you will agree with me that safeguarding and financing the health care of the Austrian population is not only the task of the competent minister, but must be the challenge and duty of all of us. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will be happy to support the way together, which is certainly not easy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36401	Mrs Reitsamer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36423	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with a small chapter on health today, but, as I believe, very important chapters, namely genetic engineering and, in particular, food labelling. New food and new production processes are being invented more and more quickly, and the latter are already being used in some cases. These products reach market maturity within a short time from the stage of development and can totally change the food landscape. The modification of plants, animals and micro-organisms with the help of genetic engineering is only done in the rarest cases for the purpose of achieving greater benefit to consumers. The real motive for genetic engineering, ladies and gentlemen, is not the better food product, but usually only the faster, cheaper and more extensive production. At the same time, however, there is a high safety need on the consumer side because of the literal "newness", which must be taken into account. Where genetically modified organisms are used, consumer concerns must be dealt with very sensitively. On the one hand, increased environmental and health awareness leads to increased demand for natural and pure products. Austria was already aware of this problem before accession to the EU, and the members of our Socialist Group have therefore been particularly deeply involved in the negotiations for the Novel Food Regulation. The Council's common position is to be described as completely inadequate. From the point of view of European consumer organisations, there are a number of necessary changes regarding labelling. From a consumer point of view, it is important that a comprehensive label is decided not only for living, genetically modified organisms, but also for food and ingredients produced or produced from such organisms, so that the quoted adult consumer can freely decide whether or not to buy Gentech food. Ladies and gentlemen! Questionnaires have shown that 94 percent of Austrian gentech foods want to be identified. The provision that a positive label such as "manufactured without the use of genetic engineering" should also be permitted is essential from the point of view of consumers. The scope of the Regulation should also be extended to additives, flavourings, extraction agents and cetera in so far as they are produced using genetic engineering methods. Another requirement is the uniform scientific examination for all genetic engineering foods. According to the Council's draft, almost all food produced from genetic engineering, i.e. those claimed to be essentially equivalent, is simply a notification of the placing on the market. This is insufficient from a consumer point of view. Consumers call for clarification that genetic engineering and organic farming are incompatible. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumers who buy food from organic farming assume that these products are largely natural. Genetic interventions do not meet their legitimate buyer expectations. Consumer organisations also call for the establishment of a procedure for monitoring authorised genetically modified food. Genetic engineering is a completely new process in food production, for which, of course, there are no long-term experiences. In my opinion, a procedure for monitoring long-term effects and ensuring that authorised gentech foods meet the authorisation criteria in the future is indispensable in order for consumers to be able to rely on the safety of genetically modified food. How has this been in the European Parliament? – In fact, he was treated on 27 May. February 1996 of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the European Parliament 80 amendments, 48 of which you are waiting, Mr Reichhold, for this to happen. – were accepted. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There was the ÖVP against it!]] However, these were found at the plenary session on 12 February. In March 1996, it was not the qualified majority that was required. Only five of these amendments were accepted. The lobbyism of the food industry, which it has proved to have operated, has therefore still fallen on fertile soil – which I find extremely unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen! It was particularly disappointing, however, that the Austrian MEPs of a group obviously forgot that they had sworn an oath to the Constitution of the Republic of Austria. This has been noted here in the near future. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What group is that?]] Mr Reichhold! You know, I know it too, in the newspapers it's said. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Then tell me!]] I said it more than clearly. You just need to be careful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: (to ÖVP point out) is it sitting over there on the "Constitutional Arch"? That was a serious accusation!]] I'll leave that to your interpretation. The most important change is as follows: According to the Council's proposal, food would have been marked only if it differed significantly from conventional foods. This passage has been deleted. The wording now reads:... "all relevant nutritional characteristics or properties such as composition, nutritional value or nutritive effects, purpose of use of the food when a novel food or novel food ingredient differs from existing, equivalent foods or food ingredients". Ladies and gentlemen! It is still quite unclear how this regulation will affect in practice. After an initial analysis, however, it is expected that further labelling will be required than in the Council's draft. For example, in the case of agronomic changes such as herbicide resistance, labelling would be required, which was previously excluded in the draft. The level of safety in flavourings and additives is increased. Any change in composition and nutritional value shall be marked, including the procedure by which this change has been achieved. Unfortunately, all other consumer wishes remained unfulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen! What can be the further course of action now? – In contrast to Austrian press releases, I said this in the Committee, the Maastricht Treaty provides the following opportunities for further development: Firstly, if the Council approves Parliament's amendment by a qualified majority, the Regulation shall enter into force in the amended form, albeit only in a minimally amended form. Secondly, The Regulation as originally proposed by the Council will enter into force if the Council unanimously insists on its position and rejects Parliament's proposals. Ladies and gentlemen! However, each Member State, including Austria, has the opportunity to prevent such a decision from being taken by the Council alone. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That would be a possibility!]] Mr Reichhold! You can't irritate me, and you'd be much more involved if you listened, because otherwise you'd miss out. It's another argument. That's not all right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I like what you say anyway!]] All right, let me talk! That would be much easier if I were to say. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: A departure would be a possibility!]] – That would be the greatest nonsense at all. Ladies and gentlemen! So we have great responsibility. I am confident that support from the Social Democrats from Sweden, Denmark and Germany can be expected. The last solution to be adopted by Maastricht is as follows: If the regulation is not implemented in Parliament or in the Council's original proposal, a committee shall be set up from representatives of Parliament and Council. It should then try to draw up a text which can be accepted by both institutions. If this does not work, another complicated procedure will begin. There could be a third reading in Parliament – or a final failure. This would mean that the current – irregular – state remains upright. That would be the worst, however, because the development would overtake us at a very rapid pace. The fact that the Austrians are rightfully very sensitive to this also shows the many oppositions – a total of 3,000 – against the release of gene-manipulated potatoes and herbicide-resistant maize – that it is supposed to be 5,000 – which is to be decided in the Ministry of Health after consulting a scientific committee. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's agriculture is on a crossroads. We must not forget that about 10 percent of our farms operate organic farming. I mentioned that this is not compatible with genetic engineering. But I'll give you some thought: Genetic engineering in medicine is different from in the food industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36559	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Crack. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36580	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With 1. In January 1997, Austria is now introducing the Performance-oriented Hospital Financing System. I hope that no one gets the idea that this can be realized at the push of a button. A great deal of work has yet to be done to this end. Many organizational and legal measures will be necessary. The binding health care plan and the large-scale apparatus plan must be agreed with the countries. A solution must be agreed. A health plan with sub-plans must be drawn up, and nine country pots should be established. There will be a central documentation in health care to enable a uniform evaluation. A structural commission will be set up and nine country commissions will be set up. In the Federal Commission the countries will be represented, in the federal committees of the Federal Government, and in addition – and this is stated, Mr Rasinger has already pointed out in his speech – a solution has been agreed for domestic and foreign host patients. And as an additional tool, a consultation mechanism between social security and the countries was installed. . This soon to reform, which was negotiated between the Federal Government and the countries. I would now like to address a few points that have been raised by almost every speaker or speaker, for example the BSE affair, which not only moves Austria but all of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen. Austria is therefore in a happy position to be able to say that there is no BSE case with us because in Austria the ban on imports of British beef was already pronounced in 1990. And I'll tell you the status quo what the laws are about. The current situation regarding BSE is as follows: There is an import ban on meat originating in the United Kingdom, on bovine animals and on meat products. There is an import ban with regard to Switzerland. In addition, in the case of imports of fresh meat from other Member States of the EU or from third countries, Austria requires an additional declaration by the official veterinarian there that the meat of bovine animals not kept in Switzerland and not in a holding in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is derived from BSE. So we can really say – a pity that Mrs Aumayr is now parloring out there and not listening – that Austrian beef is impeccable. If you buy Austrian quality, you can be calmed down as a consumer. I have always expressed myself only to Austrian beef and beef quality. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On Tuesday in Luxembourg, I proposed to the Council of Ministers that we should install a system or think about a system that would make it possible to make the way of the meat comprehensible so that we can know which region and from which stable you want this meat to come. But I say what I said in the main committee: One should ask for this only to the extent that one can actually guarantee it. No one, ladies and gentlemen, can say or guarantee what meat is inside, for example, the Ravioli. No one can do that! And if someone says that to the consumer anyway, he's just lying to him and making fun of him. I'd never give up on saying that. But where you can say it – and I have proposed it in the EU – you should do it. I have found an open ear for this both in Germany and in France, and I will also join the Council of Health Ministers, which took place on 14 May. It is in this direction that the Ministers of Health are taking place in Brussels in May, and the Ministers of Health are asked to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And now on a question which, as I have heard and as we know, all of us are very moved, on the question of genetic engineering. It has been agreed that genetic engineering in medicine must be considered differently from genetic engineering in food. I always see myself exposed to the accusation that I am not outside. I would ask you to understand my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, of the legislative body of Austria. This is a ongoing procedure. I can't say that. It's about as if a minister broke into a law and went to the public and said: This and that law is now passed. And this and that law is there. – The first to be excited about it would be you, because you would say: The legislative body is Parliament and not the Minister. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is true that a request was made to the Ministry. It now runs the mechanism prescribed by the law, and I hold back until these things have been handled by the relevant bodies and until they are with me on the desk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! Getting So Far You know me that you can assume that I have an opinion on this matter. But I can't tell them, and I'm asking for understanding. I want to behave in accordance with the law. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You could work with an instruction! The Lord One is doing that too!]] I have just told you that I do it the way the law prescribes it, and you will not cause me to refrain from acting in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Lord One is doing this too!]] My name is Krammer, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36661	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36676	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has been said to me a few times now that two ministers would have said that they are against it and they would not do so. – These ministers say this very easily and very nicely. You don't have to answer that, it's not in your place. I mean, they like to express their opinion as citizens. In parentheses I say: If it were the other way round and the other ministers had to decide, I would practice and wait until the colleagues have decided. I would have liked this behavior too. Unfortunately, it is not so – I have to live with it. – But it’s very easy to talk about something you don’t have to answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have also spoken to the soybean in America. I share these concerns. I'm part of that group you've been talking about. This hurt me in the soul! I once talked to people from the United States who were with me and asked why I am not in favour of soybeans coming to Austria. I have said that I am in favour of labelling. Then they said: It's not usual in America. You don't know which soybeans are genetically modified and which are not. – That’s what I said: As long as this is not clear in America, I am against the fact that soybeans come to us from America for the reasons you mentioned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I would like to say something about the drinking water nitrate regulation. It is true that it was planned to reduce the nitrate content of drinking water to 30 milligrams by 1999. But I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, of a certain development. I have found that many of the communities that are far from reaching 50 are already thinking about what they will do, because they will not reach the 30 at all. And these communities are there, please install water treatment plants. They have already asked themselves, they have also asked us – thank God, for in this way I have learned – and they have said that they want to prepare drinking water. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the worst development at all, because then the abuse is open to the door and door, then nobody is whistling into the ground. According to the motto: After all, this is being prepared, the Austrian gets a well-prepared water anyway. What we should do is talk about a development that prevents toxic plant protection products from coming into the ground and thus destroying drinking water. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Who makes the Plant Protection Act?]] Not Dr. Krammer! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, I know!]] I assumed the following consideration: We should make every effort to ensure that all communities reach the nitrate value of 50, and then, ladies and gentlemen, if we both still exist, I am willing to take the next step and make every effort to ensure that the communities reach the nitrate value 30. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if the nitrate value 30 is an illusion, ladies and gentlemen, why should we keep an illusion in a regulation? That doesn't mean anything! The mayors are hurrying, because they stand in the criminal with one foot in order to comply with this regulation, investing in millions only to reach a nitrate content of 30 in the water. That's for the Jetti Aunt! That's not fair! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36754	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36782	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for the welcome, but some of the last speakers have moved me to comment on today's debate in a few brief points. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner]] Firstly, Mrs Federal Minister, I thank you for recognizing that the legislator is Parliament and is not you, and therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, I know that you have an attitude towards genetic engineering in food production – we have also had several discussions in this respect – which in many areas is also in conformity with my condition. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I always knew that! That's not a new knowledge for me!]] But I think it is worth noting that in this debate Parliament was at least again approved by the Government Bank that we are the legislator and not the people on the Government Bank. This is something which, in my opinion, is very pleasing in today's debate, which Mr Lacner from Vorarlberg has presented to us. Mr Lackner. I would also like to give you something along the way. There is also a saying that applies to you: Arrogance comes before the case! And your remarks at the speaker's desk today were clearly in this direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The painter should know how the Bludenz Hospital once looked!]] I can, after all, refer to two positive results from the study of the documents we received from Vorarlberg's implementation. The first is that the number of redundancies on Friday has increased significantly. In German: The "Hotel Hospital" was used two days less than before after the introduction of the performance-oriented bill in Vorarlberg. I consider this to be good because the hospital should not serve as a hotel, but to make sick people healthy, so that they can release them to the domestic stove as quickly as possible. Secondly, you have argued that this model also included the limited patient population and the foreign patients a criterion of selection. However, it is alarming to note that during the expensive operations in the Landeskrankenhaus Innsbruck and in the Universitätsklinik Innsbruck during this period there was a 2.4 percent increase in the number of Vorarlberg foreign patients. If you convert these costs, you will insist that the 0.25% of savings are thus to be clearly relativized and that therefore, Mr Pumberger's opinion that the potential savings achieved – Mr Rasinger is grateful to me and gives me an indirect right – does not meet expectations and that this has not been fully achieved. And thirdly, as a Social Democratic, you have one more written in the main book: The private services of the established doctors would be much better and more favourable if we could finally achieve here in Parliament that the rules would finally apply to private individuals, which the Constitutional Court now also approves of them in its last findings, namely the creation of appropriate income opportunities through the merger of practices according to modern and also economic considerations. We have already started the first step here in Parliament years ago, namely 1988, and I hope that in this legislative period, with the adoption of a corresponding law, a possibility will finally be created for the formation of working societies for established doctors, because then the proportion of extramural care will certainly increase more than it is indicated in the Vorarlberger model with the current increases in the outpatient field of 13 per cent. I therefore believe that the hope placed by the government parties in the current changeover is a tricky one. This is certainly a change, but not a fundamental reform. This will certainly not bring the expected savings if one does not take the step to involve the established doctors in the performance-honored system in the appropriate form. An example: If an ophthalmologist freezes out a patient in the established practice, for example, a foreign body from the cornea, then he receives in a federal country for this performance – that is a work of about three quarters – approximately 240 S, while in the hospital, if you calculate everything, that is, with the transport of health and the cost of staying, about 2 600 S are to be paid for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] At least, Mr Rasinger, I admit that. In the field of equality between established and private sectors, it is therefore certain that savings potential must be found, so that this area must also be taken into account in the country's pots in accordance with the proportion of the basic provision it provides for Austrian health insurance – even if it is taken into account that from 1997 on VAT will be fully affected by the established area, while...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36841	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36857	... Hospitals then recover VAT in the corresponding compensation procedure between the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities. That is just to be said in principle, and I would recommend to Mr Lacner: perhaps less pride and more listening!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36890	Mrs. Federal Minister! Do you want the word now or at the end? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36911	Thank you, Mr President. The fact that Mr President-in-Office has reported has led me to understand that I did not do something I had done to do and what one actually does as a good-willed person – and I hope that I am – I have forgotten to thank myself. Mr Guggenberger said in his speech that this hospital reform has many fathers and she has a mother. This has been the subject of a President's speech. Mr President, Fischer has said that compromise is also a mother. Mr President. That is right, and this high degree of compromise has led to the fact that the reform of Austrian healthcare can now finally be taken in the right direction with a first and very important step. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: 17 years!]] I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed significantly to the progress and realization of this reform project, and this, of course, belongs to the health spokespersons of our party, Mr Guggenberger, as well as to Mr Rasinger and Mr Leiner. This coalition, whose work, whose good cooperation has led to the implementation of the reform project. But we must all be honest and also admit: We would not have been able to do so if there were not a number of highly efficient officials who were really used to limit their performance and capacity, because they were often called upon to make real, literally new calculations from today to tomorrow. And that really happened overnight and with extreme effort and tension. I do not want to thank them, and I would be glad if you did, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36949	Mrs Ing. has now been reported to the House. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e36970	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not afraid that my speaking time is only very short, but the many emotions of the Minister have moved me to address once again this issue that we discussed in the afternoon, namely the question of food, which is most important for us, namely drinking water. Mrs. Minister! I can't follow your argument at all. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: I didn't expect that either!]] I think you didn't expect that. I could just as evil now and say that I didn't expect you to follow a logical line of reasoning here, because would it be logical... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Well, when polemics come from the government bank, I have to polish back. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She's right, because the minister always polemises from the government bank! That is where I have to protect Mr Langthaler.]] In fact, as you know, your predecessor has adopted this, and you have to do it – a drinking water exemption regulation for the capitals of the country and particularly burdened regions. That is, if I were to follow you, it was the complete task of every kind of border policy in that country. We do not set limits on what is technically feasible now, but on what is reasonable to health. We know from all the studies of many years on drinking water and nitrate pollution that there are problems from a value of approximately 25 to 30 milligrams per litre for babies and young children, and that is why in the past there has always been appropriate information measures. The goal was to finally approach this value for years. Therefore, it was planned to apply a limit of 30 milligrams per litre with transitional periods from 1999. What is so sad and so annoying is that, on the one hand, there is indeed a certain farm lobby, which still has a great influence in the Ministry of Agriculture, so that nothing changes in the area of fertilisation and in the field of commissioning. You and your predecessors have now adopted this regulation seven years ago. Now nothing has happened for so long, nothing has happened for seven years. It would have been ten years for the limit values to finally lower the load on drinking water. Come now They therefore say: Well, now nothing has happened for seven years – and I also assume that nothing will happen in the next three years either – so let's leave the higher limit value. It was originally our goal to get down, but we give it up. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then she is in retirement, the woman minister!]] The WHO limit is 25 milligrams per litre. The World Health Organization and all the physicians to whom we are talking about this area say that from 30 milligrams in litres on, there is a burden on infants and babies and that drinking water of this kind must no longer be used for them. What's so annoying: You now take away every pressure, every pressure towards agriculture, you take away every pressure to reform and improve drinking water. She is a Minister for Health... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Kammer.]] It is clear that this is being carried out by the Minister of Agriculture, but that you, as Minister of Health, have given up here and do not, at least, call for an alarm in 1999 and say: Look, for ten years nothing happened!, that's bad. And now we have to react in such a way that we ultimately throw and capitulate the whole thing! What you have said about the treatment facilities, Mrs Minister, is that I am not comprehensible for the following reason: If you were to look at the pesticides in this country or if they were actually about compliance with the limit values and quality, you would probably have to consider this far more. I do not think that we need treatment plants, but what we really need would be the corresponding pressure from politics, so that we can finally reach these limits. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: The communities do it!]] What you have been doing in environmental policy for decades are promises, and if it is time to implement promises that you have to make acts, then capitulate. Mrs Minister, what you have offered here today on the subject of drinking water was the absolute capitulation of policy in front of the agricultural lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37063	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I'll interrupt the meeting until tomorrow, Friday, 26. April 1996, 9 a.m. We then continue to negotiate the remaining parts of the draft federal financial laws in 1996 and 1997. The meeting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 8.16 p.m. and suspended on Friday, 26. April 1996, 9.02 a.m.]] Continued the meeting: 26. April 1996
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37099	I welcome you. Ladies and gentlemen, and take the interrupted 17. National Council meeting again. I ask you to take a seat because we'll do a fishing in two minutes. Deputies from Nuremberg, Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann, Dr. Karlsson, Hans Helmut Moser, Dkfm. Holger Bauerand Dr. Schwimmer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37142	For this meeting day, a communication was made on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the representation of members of the government as follows: Federal Minister for State Defence Dr. Fassleven is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Einm. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel is represented by Ms Benita Ferrero-Waldner. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein is represented in his capacity as Minister for the Environment by Minister Molterer and in his role as Minister for Youth and Family Affairs by Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer. Finally, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Ditz is appointed by Mr. Finanzminister Mag. Climate represented. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37178	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that representatives Dr. Brigitte Povysilund Hans Schöllauf have renounced their mandates and that Dr. Franz Linserand Wolfgang Jungin have been appointed to the National Council in their place. As the electorate is present and the members of the House are present, we will immediately make the fishing visit. I'm looking for the woman's writer to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37211	You will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37227	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37242	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37257	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Other Chapters Chapter 11: Internal (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 14: Science and research (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 15: Social affairs Chapter 16: Social security Chapter 18: Environment Chapter 19: Youth and family Chapter 30: Justice (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions (Government) Chapter 59: Community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, Chapter 60: Agriculture and forestry (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 65: Public economy and transport (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 75: Alcohol (monopol) Chapter 77: Austrian Federal Forest (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 78: Post and Telegraph Administration (Post and Telegraph Administration in the 1997 budget) as well as text of the Federal Finance Act, establishment plan, vehicle plan and plan for data processing facilities for the years 1996 and 1997
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37410	We are now continuing to negotiate the 1996 and 1997 budgets. The other parts of the Federal Finance Act 1996 and 1997 will be consulted, together with investments. The following speeches were fixed for today's session: SPÖ 165 minutes, ÖVP 154 minutes, Freedom 143 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. I'll give him the word. Speaking time: maximum 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37440	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now brought two weeks of discussions here in plenary almost behind us. We have discussed the structural adjustment laws, and you have passed these structural adjustment laws against the will of the opposition parties. They will now adopt a budget for two years, namely for the years 1996 and 1997, a budget which should enable Austria to meet the convergence criteria for monetary union at the end of 1997. They have always stated that they want to make structural changes. In fact, you have only created an emergency programme that will allow you to reach the convergence criteria by the year 1997. They have not taken any structural measures, such as those to be adopted after 1997 and 1998, until the year 2000. The question of why we shall refuse to approve this budget is easy to answer: because it does not contain future prospects, no future prospects for the years after 1997 and beyond the turn of the millennium. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How long have we been discussing a common currency? Let's go back a little bit. In 1990, Phase 1 had already been launched, in the form of a close commitment to a European monetary system. Only four countries are still in this close bond with a European monetary system: the smallest is Luxembourg, Austria, Germany and the Netherlands. All the others are already excreted or not taking part in it at all. Today, there is only one country in the European Union that meets all the Maastricht convergence criteria, and that is the smallest country, Luxembourg. There are a number of countries in the European Union which do not meet the convergence criteria, such as Greece, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and, of course, Italy. And I am already very excited about how far the bow should be stretched in the context of a European monetary union, if not even the founding member of Italy is able to meet the convergence criteria. I am looking forward to whether there will really be monetary policy considerations to achieve monetary union, or whether there will only be more political considerations in this regard. For it will certainly not be a question of a founding country like Italy not participating in a common currency. How do you want to do that? Mr. Minister of Finance! They had the opportunity to put in place measures through structural changes in order to establish a budget that meets the criteria for the years thereafter. They did not perceive this possibility. The population in the 75 percent order has shown the willingness to take savings measures, it has shown that it is willing to restrict itself, but the population is not willing to ask for cash only, while all the others, those who sit in the protected areas, get away unscathed. I can't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! It's clear to me: If Mr. Bundeskanzler or you write to the representatives of interest letters with the content that you should also put structural measures there – letters to the Federal Chamber of Commerce or letters to the Austrian National Bank for example – then you will receive bold answers in such a way that you are not prepared to do anything there. But you would also have had the opportunity to take measures on your own that would have forced the others to move. This could have been done, for example, in the form of a resolution to the National Bank of 23 billion schillings, adding this amount to the general pension scheme. That would have been a possibility. It is certainly not possible to do everything from today to tomorrow, but you would have had the opportunity to put in place structural measures; But you didn't. With this budgetary policy, you will not reach the Maastricht criteria. They will therefore not reach them, because Austria is going the opposite way to the difference between Italy and the convergence criteria, particularly in the field of public debt. Although Italy does not reach the convergence criteria from its debt, Italy is on the best way to reach the convergence criteria, i.e. the curve of government debt is going down. Mr Finanzminister! Unfortunately, the curve of our government debt goes exactly the opposite way, because it goes up. Germany can't do anything more about this today. It used to send open letters to the Italian Government, but we should start budgetary policy in such a way that the Maastricht criteria are reached. Germany is already fighting even today with a package of measures in the order of 350 billion schilling. There, too, the population is being burdened to reach the Maastricht criteria, but even there, the entire financial and tax policy is now only one piece of work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's not that you just say: Well, we're not a good country either, we can't do an autonomous financial and economic policy. – Mr Finanzminister! In principle, you have made a mistake in making this budget, the mistake that you have gone from what you promised before the elections to carry out an expenditure-side budgetary policy. They have made it easier and have not made expenditure-side budgetary policies, but rather they want to carry out budgetary adjustment on a revenue-side. And when we look at the numbers: The ratio between revenue and expenditure adjustment is not 1 : 2, but exactly the other way round: 2 : 1 – unfortunately in favour of a revenue-side budget recovery. A study of two university professors from America showed that in the European countries, the long-term impact of budgetary adjustment is: On the other hand, fiscal reorganisation has resulted in an increase in direct and indirect taxes. That is to say, at the expense of competition, and that is exactly what the Austrian economy does not need at present. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are at the moment struggling with anti-competitive measures, since the Federal Government has been inactive in several areas. But not only the liberals are criticizing the consolidation package, Mr. Finanzminister. Even Gerhard Lehner of the Wifo notes that it will come to an end this year, 1997 will be much more uncertain and 1998 will be a real problem. Professor Felder is still tracking and stating: There have been a lot of declarations of intent in the budget, but nothing specific has happened. Professor Schneider of the University of Linz says: It is increasingly unlikely that the Maastricht criteria will be met. So these are not black pictures that draw the opposition parties here, but these are statements by the economic researchers or economic professors. Schneider goes even further and says that the loss of a triple-A percentage point alone is about 17 billion schilling. A 10 percent depreciation of schilling increases the repayment obligations for our foreign currency loans in the order of 26 billion schilling. Mr Finanzminister! These are the things that have not been tackled in your budgetary policy for the years 1996 and 1997. They also said – and there was also the Federal Chancellor in his government statement leading: It must also be possible to provide risk capital to the Austrian economy, risk capital not only through cheap loans, but also through shares, through stock trading, through the Vienna Stock Exchange. But how does the Vienna Stock Exchange look? – There is something really to be reformed, namely stock exchange supervision and banking supervision. It cannot be said that banking supervision is purely politically motivated by the fact that banking supervision only allows political interpretations, in the way that the planned privatisation of CA is already going into the sixth year, and this is because it does not fit the socialist finance minister that a large bank can also install itself in the bourgeois sector. This policy, which you have pursued there – not you as a person, Mr. Finanzminister, but the Socialist Federal Government – has caused huge damage to the CA or the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call to the liberals: What does the ÖVP say about it?]] The EIA has not said anything about this at all, and this is unfortunate: The ÖVP even watched Austria take over the shares of Austrian national savings banks in the Girocredit in a short-term night and fog action, so that the area of the Girocredit, which is always assigned to the bourgeois camp, today also has a major owner in the form of Bank Austria. The Austrian People's Party as a self-proclaimed representative of the civilians in Austria – in the meantime this representation has already taken over the liberals – has simply slept there. You have slept, and you have simply watched that on the one hand, an area of the nationalized industry has been lost with x-thousand jobs, but on the other hand, the Social Democrats have built up an area of 40 000 jobs in Vienna, dominated solely by socialist groups. I am eager to see how the Austrian People's Party will justify it before the voters. But it is not about changing little money here, but about what prospects you have, Minister of Finance. What reforms do you want to make in the area of banking supervision? We have had a number of bank scandals in recent years. There was a scandal at the Austrian Landesbank, where the federal government had to intervene with its own laws. We had the scandal about BHI bank, there was the BAWAG scandal due to speculation operations in the Caribbean. After all, we have once... [[Abg. Conspicuous: What scandal?]] It was traded with derivatives, and of course this is not going to happen without further notice. This could lead to a major risk for the bank, and if these derivative transactions had failed, as was the case with other large banks, then this bank could have been very difficult. The relationship between the owner and the borrower at the bank has also been seen in connection with the "consumer". On the one hand, the "consumer" was the partner of the BAWAG, on the other side sitting in the BAWAG institutions that grant themselves the loans. The revision has not worked, which has led to a damage to the Austrian economy in an order of 26 billion schilling. It is not true that the "consumer" has been renovated, but the "consumer" has been crushed. That means that this company has been liquidated, it is no longer existent today. This could have been prevented in time if the internal revisions had worked at the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Minister of Finance, not only did the opposition parties - primarily the liberals - repeatedly draw attention to the need for depoliticization, particularly in the supervision of the stock market or in the supervision of banks. As early as 1993, the Court of Auditors pointed out quite a lot and found that the in-depth control steps were usually far too late and only after a risk occurred and that on-the-spot checks would be more efficient. The Court of Auditors has also noted that the group of auditors should be extended to include the state commissioners and that dual functions as staff of the supervisory authority and, at the same time, state commissioner of objectivity are not conducive. And what happened? - Nothing! One has seen this in connection with the events at the BHI bank: In the course of these events at the BHI bank, it was only in the course of these events that the deposit guarantee for small investors was increased so that the EU directive was also fulfilled, but it was only because of massive protests by the liberals here in the House in the form of an urgent request to the Minister of Finance, that was an urgent request, particularly concerning the small savers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How good it is that the liberals here in the House play their opposition role in this form also shows that BHI customers have thanked themselves in many letters to the Freedom Party. If we had done nothing about this, nothing would have happened at all, one would not have responded at all. They say again and again, the liberals go somewhere, demonstrate, stir people up, and then they go away and do nothing. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] But: If the liberals had not been active at the time and had alerted to these abuses – not only with the BHI bank, but also with the National Bank and other stakeholders – nothing would have happened so far. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because of this opposition policy of the Freedom Party here in the House, at least a lot of things have been moved. The German Federal Government's inconsistency has a deeper meaning: Of course, you don't want to get rid of the credits you bought there. I understand, too, but the population no longer understands that on the one hand you are letting go of a wave of stress on the population, but on the other hand, you do not want to take any burdens at all. [[Complaints with the liberals]] You have now had a great opportunity, Minister of Finance, but you have not noticed them! It is now about two things: Once again, it is about the confidence of entrepreneurs and employees in the economic and financial policies of the Austrian Federal Government. What you have done here in recent years – not you as a person, Mr. Finanzminister, but the Federal Government – has been a constant change in our tax system. There have once been benefits introduced, and they have been abolished in the next half of the year. There is therefore no longer any confidence in the framework of Austrian fiscal and financial policy. And this is also the cause of Austria's so-called globalisation, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has so well said in his statement of government, of external trade relations and globalisation in foreign investment, which at least reaches a magnitude of 2,200 billion schillings, which corresponds to the gross domestic product of the Austrian economy, perhaps with 10 billion schillings. It must also be said, however, that 12 billion of revenues from foreign companies' investments in the Austrian economy go abroad and only 2 billion of Austrian companies that have invested abroad are going back to Austria; therefore, a constant departure. If you are announcing today that you want to launch a founding offensive, you want to create reliefs for the medium and small economy, especially in the field of exports, in the form of the provision of risk capital or improvement of the framework conditions for the provision of risk capital, then you have to do one above all: They need to build confidence once, in that confidence is depoliticized as banking supervision and stock exchange supervision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian stock exchange cannot continue to be controlled by the banks themselves that the Austrian stock exchange is used as a mini-finance place only by so-called speculators in order to win short-term profits. It can't be like that! As long as you are unable to depoliticize the supervision of the stock exchange, of course, there will be no change in the provision of risk capital in Austria. As to the provision of risk capital in Austria, you know: In fact, we are far behind India, and India is really not a great power in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! While they are still opposed to the fact that the anonymity of savings deposits is so criticised by the European Union. I am also a follower of anonymity, for a very simple reason: Anonymity has nothing to do with money laundering, but anonymity is a decisive instrument for the Austrian financial industry. If the anonymity is lost in us and the banking law is not amended in particular with regard to banking secrecy, we will have a special kind of capital flow: Liquidity decreases, interest increases, and this has an impact on the budget: You know exactly what 1 percent interest rate increase for the budget means. Mr Finanzminister! There's a need for action for you! It is important not only to keep nice weather speeches from the government bank, but now, Minister of Finance, actions are required for the Austrian economy, for the population, for the future, so that we can go calmly into the next millennium.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37575	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. He's got the floor. I note the voluntary time limit to 20 minutes; the business regulation is known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37601	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Until a few months ago, this House had a committee for national establishments to which separate treatment was granted. After the successful privatisation of ÖIAG companies, this committee was converted into the Industrial Committee. It is evidence of a particular industrial policy attitude when we are dealing with the budgetary approaches to industry under the heading "Others" today; I have already expressed regret in the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the privatisation success of the ÖIAGs in recent years in my speech on this budget chapter. With the ÖIAG Novelle 1993 legislation, the ÖIAG was given new tasks, namely the preparation of measures for the production of the best possible conditions for privatisation and maintenance of Austrian industrial enterprises and industrial value added, as far as economically acceptable and in the case of majority participation in their companies in an appropriate time. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, most of the planned privatisations have been successfully implemented in compliance with the law. To do this, all the sane forces have – I emphasize: the sane forces! – contributed in politics, and I thank all those involved in the ministries, in the chambers, in the trade unions, I thank the politicians and, last but not least, the works councils in our working group, which enabled these gradual privatisation of central Austrian industrial enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Through this sensible privatisation, thousands of jobs, as I mean, could be secured or re-created. In view of the current labour market situation, the importance of this cannot be underestimated. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, look back at the great privatisation steps; I would just like to remind them briefly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] Dear friend Blünegger, you're somewhere else, you don't know each other at all! Look into our businesses – I like to invite you! – and then you will see how successful trade unions, works councils and smart politicians were. These were really sensible politicians, something you could never find out about your site. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As has already been said, I would like to remind you briefly of these privatisation steps: VA Railway Systems AG and AMS have now been privatized to 100 percent. Schöller Bleckmann and VA-Steinöl were sold to private companies; the SGP transport technology was sold to Siemens up to 26 percent. There was another issue of OMC shares: The ÖIAG holds only 49.9%. 51 percent of the VA technology shares were placed on the stock exchange in 1994, and ÖIAG holds only more than 24 percent. VA Stahl AG was also privately privatized. In the meantime, the ÖIAG holds only more than 38.8 percent. On this occasion I would like to mention – and I have already said it – that every fourth employee in VA Stahl has participated in the company and was willing to buy shares. This means that he believes in this company and also in the future of this company. I would like to thank the employees very much for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Privatizations of Böhler-Uddeholm AG in two stages: Since March 1996, ÖIAG has held only more than 25 percent, and through its successful gradual privatisation since the ÖIAG Act Novelle, ÖIAG achieved a sales revenue of around 20 billion schilling. A further 5 billion schillings were obtained through the issue of young shares. The proceeds still to be expected for 1996, for example those of the OMV, are not included in the privatisation proceeds of around 25 billion schillings. The privatisations have reduced the net debt and the net debt from 23 billion schilling at the end of 1993 to 7 billion schilling at the end of 1995 and the debt level can be completely reduced in 1996. I think this is a great success! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the difficult national and international economic situation, it is particularly gratifying that, unlike many other companies, the income of the companies involved in ÖIAG is positive. VA Stahl AG alone invests 11 billion schilling in new large plants over the next four years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! These large-scale investments also benefit the domestic economy and secure or create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us help by means of industrial policy measures to ensure the economic success of this so important industrial enterprise for Austria! Their value added, their jobs, their know-how and their export success, as I believe, are indispensable for our country. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me quote the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung), I have never quoted a newspaper in my speeches, in contrast to the Members of the Freedom Party who are quoting newspaper reports in the budget debate, but who are criticizing other Members who are quoting here. On Saturday, 20th. There was an article by Georg Wailand in the "Kronen Zeitung" on April 9, 1996. I would just like to quote a small section of it, but it is so typical that I have to bring it. It means here: "Look forward, instead of rushing. Loans are as cheap as ever. The inflation rate is 1.5 percent sensationally low. Exports are becoming gratifying. The largest companies on the stock market are making a balance of glory on the other side. The prospects for the economy have improved significantly. Nevertheless, in this country the rabies are still soaring as a particularly infectious disease. It is a pity, my evil tongue, the greeting of the coffeemen, but I think that now is the time to look forward again." In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with this budget. – A cordial happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37712	Next, Mr. Dr. Kier has the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, today's last day of the debate on the federal financial laws offers another opportunity to deal with a few particularly remarkable aspects, one of which I would like to put under the heading "budget truth". For example, what about the federal budgets in view of the expected revenue from the social insurance obligation for colporteurs? – As you all know, our group in this House strongly criticised the exception that was in principle decided upon for colporteurs - I express this - of the media print. I still have in mind the letter of the editor, editor-in-chief and publisher Dieand, in which he told the social spokespersons of the political groups of this House that it is so big a concern that he represents because it is a number of hundred million schillings at stake and endangers freedom of the press. We were not of the opinion that this measure would endanger freedom of the press, nor did we believe that it is a legitimate exception, which was then decided, but that it is a non-equality process, and that a group of people, which is already rightless, remains rightless. But I wonder, from the point of view of budgetary truth: Where have these certainly not remained a few million? The exception was decided, but the budget did not respond. This is, I think, a clear indication of the fact that the budgetary truth in the actual sense of the word does not take it very seriously, because if someone requests such an exception, he must provide the means of doing so in the budget approaches and then, in the end, also put in a corresponding amendment. However, this is not available. So the budget was either before the exception was decided, in this dimension not correct, or it is not right now. I am afraid that if such a contradiction exists, it is well advised to assume that the budget is not correct in itself. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What about the federal subsidies for pensions? – A falling trend is predicted. You hear the message, but there is no faith! A falling trend in the federal subsidies for pensions can only be argued if one refers exclusively to those positions which are overwritten with the title: Federal grant for pensions. If you look at the numerous cross-subsidisations that are found for exactly the same purpose in the budget, namely for the purpose of providing grants for pensions in the area of the main association of social security funds, you see a markedly increasing trend. It can be seen that in 1997 we will have to expect that, in the area of the main social security scheme, almost 50 percent of the disbursements made under this title already come from direct or indirect federal grants. So I wonder, How do you keep it with the budget truth, or in this case with the budget transparency? – I believe that transparency is also an element of sincerity, because it does not use anything if everything is anywhere, but even the experts can hardly see what amounts actually are compacted, counted together and at least presented as an overall failure position. For example, what about the expected more revenue if the possibilities for investing in the building area, especially in the housing sector – the so-called household models – are no longer given? – All of us – at least I believe it; I do not believe that the Vienna Landtag has made a personal exception in me and that it has only sent me – I am sure that the unanimous decision of the Vienna Landtag, in which we are all urgently asked to reconsider this measure, because only the city of Vienna loses 130 million schilling in EU funding through the strike of the so-called "houselords" models, i.e. by removing the possibility of investing private funds economically in buildings, for example in the area of the renovation of the belt, because the EU, apparently indignant with liberal thoughts, only promotes such projects if private investors participate in it and not only in public hands. The city of Vienna now has to be expected to withdraw in the area of rehabilitation of the belt the private investors who can no longer write off their investments there. Result: The EU is no longer promoting. Result: 130 million Schillings are for the municipality of Vienna, which is money that we have all sent together first to Brussels and which we are now no longer getting back, although it is a useful project. That's a point of view. The second point is: I hear and have been talking about the fact that the recalculation of the effects of the removal of household models has resulted in tax failures due to under-investment in the order of 1 billion schilling. In other words, the budget represents a possible surplus revenue, which will actually be a significant reduction in revenue. That's what I'm asking myself: What about the budget truth? Are the balances mentioned in the budget, in other words, the deficit, only approximately credible or correct, if only from the mechanics of deleted possibilities to invest in the field of buildings, a minus balance of approximately 1 billion schilling can be expected? If you are aware of these three examples, which I have mentioned here, you will understand that from the Liberal Group's point of view, we will in no way be able to accept these federal proposals. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If not even the simplest rules are respected, such as the change in approaches due to the exception for colporteurs, or the transparency in the area of federal subsidies for pensions or the correct reproduction of income and expenditure effects, if not even a measure such as the cancelled depreciation possibilities for construction investments are properly presented, how should one have only close confidence in the other positions? Yesterday, I had the opportunity to take part briefly in an event dealing with the issue of old house renovation, to enable energy savings through comprehensive rehabilitation programmes, which in turn means expenditure prevention, CO2 reduction and ultimately higher quality of life for people. There were all there – across all political groups, but that was not a fractional event, but a professional event – the same opinion, namely: If there are no tax incentives in the system, then there will be no reorganisation investment, then nothing will be invested to reduce energy consumption, then the substitution of building substance against excess consumption will not take place. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: That says a liberal!]] The only thing that remains in this field is the hope that some still do, although it is no longer calculated for them. What does that mean? – Only more can do this than anyone who can afford it. From the point of view of a social speaker, this is a devastating statement! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If we do not remember that many hundreds of thousands of people now – in the actual sense of the word – are staying on the track, then we make a big mistake, because in this case we are de facto prohibiting work-place activities, because everyone knows that investments in old-house renovation are extremely effective, because many people have to work on the construction sites, because large-scale machinery cannot be used there, because even smaller craft companies and smaller firms – unlike large-scale construction sites – find meaningful orders there, and I would like to say that I am not speaking against large-scale construction sites, one must not play out against the other, in this case it must be both as well. Since this is investment in the substance, in total national assets, a forward strategy would be needed, because it is not a debt if one does this, but it is an investment for the future, which would also be due, for example, to heating costs less for the people who live there, to relieve them on the income side, which would also be the requirement for them to be able to assume an energy tax. We must not assume energy taxes and at the same time cut them off from the possibility of reducing energy consumption through investment. But that is what you are doing, especially where it is socially unbearable! Monument protection. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] – Yes, Minister of the State, I hear the message well, but first of all it floats over the whole of the guardian angel of the monument protection, second, it may also be a partial demolition. Such tax laws are governing laws. There is a very interesting example in history, Minister of State: When one day one tried to find a new tax, one thought that the roof surfaces would be an ideal, just measure for collecting taxes on buildings. The result was that all the buildings that were no longer in real operation, such as our medieval castles, were then covered and today are ruins and decaying. Only a few stubborn "quareulants" have not covered their castles, and these are still standing today. Today, for cultural historical reasons, we are partly saddened by the fact that much old building substance has disappeared by means of a roof tax, which had an unexpected steering effect. If you say, Old house renovation: yes!, buildings and new buildings: no!, then I must say: This is not my access to housing policy. I am of the opinion, Mr Federal Minister, that it is right to get as much old a substance as possible, especially since it is often much better than what is being built today, that is right, just: If something has to be torn down and rebuilt in part, that does not mean that this is socially unbearable. That would mean in your world: New construction is definitely socially unbearable! This is not our access to housing! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We believe that if it were successful to bring more dynamics into the housing area if it were to succeed in a ten-year transition period from overregulation of the housing market to a market-based mechanism, suddenly housing in new buildings would also be affordable for more socially weak if This is combined with an individual support called housing aid, i.e. with subject and non-object promotion. But this is a longer story, and it would be necessary to talk about what structural reforms are really necessary. However, I do not feel that today's debate on the last day of the debate on federal proposals is appropriate to re-examine the structural discussion that has failed over the last ten years. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But I would be glad if the shock, which seems to be now many, was perhaps a more wholesome one and caused us to start a structural discussion at least from Monday. The fact that these Federal estimates will have been decided in the evening after all the prospect of this evening does not mean that we are really over the mountain. Not even you who have presented this and believe that this is a good template, can anyone agree that it was all now. That's best the beginning. We say: a misguided start! They say: a successful start! But that means in both cases: Now work is going on, now it's only starting! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It will be a matter of finding a broad consensus, and it will be important to make us aware that we must ensure that solidarity in this society does not break down, i.e. that people do not lose confidence in the measures taken, that they do not fail to remain optimistic. This is a common task, which I see far beyond the limits of the political groups. But that means that we are sincere about it. For example, there is no help for the many retroactive elements that have been criticized several times in the last few days. Retrospective laws always mean loss of trust among legal subjects. On the question of whether this would then be constitutional. – They have secured it through two-thirds regulations, but whether that would have been without them or not, this is interesting for lawyers and for us liberals an important aspect. But for those people who do not deal in detail with such things that experience only the effects, it is a severe shock of their confidence in the legal order. However, the functioning of a rule of law requires that people have confidence in it that they are, so to speak, voluntary and out of the feeling that it is useful to follow this rule of law and not just because they would otherwise be punished. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Once a society is ready to force what it wants to do only by punishment, it breaks apart. Then social peace is at risk, then internal security is at risk, and then there is also a democratic problem on the table, because soon there are those who give simple answers that are credible at first sight, which are not as complicated as what we are doing here, and which, as it were, are so to speak, if something is broken. This is not what we want for a peaceful, peaceful and harmonious development of society, while calm, peaceful and harmonious does not mean, effortlessly, not mean, without plague, that is not. But you have to recognize a sense. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Because in the last two weeks of the opposition with different positions, it has often been difficult to complain that, with the large majority of the government parties, one has simply passed over them strongly, that one has almost taken the face of her, I have brought you something, and I ask you, perhaps in the next few days, to clarify the internal discussions in your house in peace. I have a very interesting letter here – it is a printed letter, therefore it is in no way confidential – from the Financial Office for Companies in Vienna, Employers' Unit. This letter draws attention to the important changes in wage settlement due to the Structural Adjustment Act as of June 1996. It is told exactly how to deal with the allowances, what to do with the overtime surcharges of over 190 s and so on. I don't read all this. The letter is intended to help employers. Only: It has a very serious beauty mistake: It shall bear the date 16. ==References== However, it was not until the 19th century that the laws included them. It was decided by the Federal Council on 4 April 1996 in this House and a week later. That's what I'm asking myself: How far have we come to this Parliament when subordinate departments of the Ministry of Finance were assigned to it on 16 June? In April, a legal situation in force, which will only be decided on on 19 April, will be announced. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this case, this is an overwhelming zeal to teach taxpayers, and this superfluous zeal is defying: He clearly shows that the subordinate departments of the Federal Minister for Finance are of the opinion that the National Council can decide what he wants, they already know what is going to happen, three days before. The Federal Council is not at all interested in them, who only one week later passed the structural adjustment laws. They let you print once. This is not only in the Bundesrechenzentrum. April was printed, but that must have been printed before, for otherwise one cannot write at 16. April. That is to say, clearly a week before the meeting in which we took the decision on this matter, this issue has already gone out. This was a provision, i.e. the suspension of the allowances, which seem to have been completely out of dispute in the coalition, so that the risk that this might suddenly have not been voted on due to an editorial amendment was small. But theoretically, it was present. For example, if one sends an issue on works contracts with such an unskilled date, i.e. the 16th century. ==References====External links== An exception for colporteurs has been decided on April. But maybe you've already known. I do not assume that the Lord Dienand did not try to change this until five years ago, but a bit earlier. Therefore, it has already been recognized that this is likely to change anyway. Only: There was no need to write a round letter, because you were lucky again, because otherwise several players in this scenario would have been very blaming. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It would not have bothered me if the subordinate department of the Federal Minister had barked, because this might have brought even more public attention to this process. But this procedure bothers me, I think it's just unbearable. If a high-ranking body like the National Council is something like this sustainable, I wonder why we are even complaining about the fact that the Federal Government is going over the opposition with its political groups. The Federal Government is now driving across the national council with its subordinate departments! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Against this background, it is no longer surprising that the structural adjustment laws, which are reflected in the federal financial laws, in the field of the so-called harmonisation of social and foreign rights, have been very mistakenly resolved. The desire for social and foreign laws to be harmonised has been grossly misunderstood by the fact that the majority of governments have here decided to pay social security contributions in our society without limitation, if they would have to collect claims from the payments made by them, they will no longer be able to raise these claims, because access to the social benefits for which they have paid has been cut off - exclusively to make cash. This is dealing with people by means of characteristics – in this case it is the feature of citizenship – which is totally unequivalent, because equality cannot only be attached to citizenship when it comes to such fundamental claims. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is fully recognized that such a thing can also trigger reciprocity, so that such a thing can corrupt good practices in the international community if one begins to make insurance and acquired rights suddenly dependent on citizenship. This reminds us of times when the master of the ground cared only for his back seats and said: These are my people, and that's what he meant. In this position, if we suddenly attach such social rights to citizenship, we must pay very close attention to the duty to tax that the unlimited duty of taxation does not depend on citizenship, but on other criteria, namely quite comparable criteria. That is to say, when it comes to cashing to the greatest possible extent, all the features that are useful, but if it is necessary to fulfill the promises given, that is, to make payments under this title too, then some of these features are withdrawn so that one does not have to comply with the promise. This reminds me of one who swears an oath and distracts him from behind the back with crossed fingers into the earth. This is not good – even if in this case the citizens of this Republic, the electors who are not affected by citizens. It's a shock of confidence! Faith You're telling me: Many more people, than you think, live at the door without a fight, with non-Austrian citizens living in this country; and they know what is done to them, and they do not like it. It also shakes confidence! However, it is an old liberal requirement that non-Austrian nationals in this country should also be given political rights of participation. I dare the prognosis – it's not cool –: If we had political rights for these people, then they would not be dealt with that way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In this sense, I would like to come to the end of my remarks and tell you: The list of examples I brought could be continued infinitely: towards budgetary truthfulness, towards intransparency, towards asymmetric rights, more cashier than promises comply with, unreasonable steering measures, such as in the field of housing renovation. This is the opposite of what would be said to make a real labour market offensive that is being spoken of here. No one knows how business start-ups are to take place when, at the same time, a minimum corporate tax of 50 000 S is introduced, which will have a disastrous effect on companies that are set up, and on companies that are already flourishing, because their payments do not amount to significantly more than 50 000 S per month of corporate tax. You should be able to reach these companies that are successful in business, achieve good profits, and then, of course, they will be happy to take off the moderate taxes in Austria – I recognise in the business sector. These companies pay taxes on income, while those where you have to remove the minimum-cost, pay taxes from the substance! These companies must rely on their parent capital in order to be able to pay the taxes. In other words, you are already accelerating the end of business start-ups before they can become successful at all. That is why I say to you: If you do not think more from Monday than you will have today by your majority – I do not say: the majority who will decide here, but: Let your majority decide! –, then it won’t go well, then the citizens will become 1st. July notice what it really meant that you crossed over the social fields with the lawn mower and the blades have set very deep – very deep! And wherever the ground wasn't quite right, you've already regraded the roots. People will notice this and be resignative at first, but at the latest on the next occasion, at the next elections, they will tell you what they thought about it, because you will not trigger an upturn for the next few years with these measures! You give yourself a deceptive hope, if you think we're just going through the wave valley somehow, then the upswing is going to occur, and when the upswing has become visible, the next choice comes. – I say to you: These measures will not lead to the upturn, but the next election will probably come. I am looking forward to seeing you not later than then knowing that we were right. I would rather, you will notice earlier, because if one is situated in this Republic, then joy of injury is only a substitute for joint work and pleasures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37879	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e37900	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The two government parties have addressed a reform package with a great deal of work, and I believe that in the last four weeks they have also demonstrated that they have complied with this task which they have received from the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Grabner.]] Please do not believe, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, that it is very easy for us to accept the laws that have been passed in the context of the structural adjustment laws, which have at least 98 changes in the matter. We, too, had problems with recognizing all that is contained in these materials, at least on large points, and bringing about appropriate decisions. Without a doubt, we had the advantage of being able to rely on the members of the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] But – and I would like to say that too – we have set ourselves the goal of treating these legislative instruments at least from the point of view of: What can be changed to the positives of the Austrian population and the Austrian economy? – That was our goal, and therefore we have great endurance at the many discussions that took place at 25. We have begun to participate in these discussions on March. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr. Kier! I already admit that today's decision-making will not stop us from already doing work for the next two years – we decide on the budgets for two years. I am also convinced that, on the basis of the great shift in reform, which we are bringing about with today's decision-making, we must constantly correct these reforms and adapt them to the situation in question. We are already going to be subject to amendments tabled by me and Mr Ing. It is a matter of course for us to be brought in by Gartlehner and signed by us, to document and to signal that this constant adjustment is something of course for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the basis of a personal experience, I would like to explain the following: The Structural Adjustment Laws included a major reorganisation of the judicial system in the Federal Republic of Austria, Styria and Salzburg. In the explanations and explanations on the government template, where the interest of the people seeking protection was in the foreground, I did not see any reason to introduce this legislative matter as an applicant. I had to learn, however, that the population is taking a very different position on this legislative matter, that it will be considered extremely painful in rural areas, and that it will be seen as an abduction of the structures when the district courts are relocated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course we will respond to it! Of course, we will have a new discussion and take this argument into account. [[Abg. Aumayr: Mr Colleague! Who put the request? – You have made the request!]] I made the request, of course, because, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I had to submit all the requests to the structural adjustment laws and to the federal budget laws. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's not an excuse!]] Mrs Aumayr! If you want it that way, I have to say it: I am, of course, responsible for all the horrors and cuts caused by these savings budgets, because I am the applicant. Faith You really think you can do everything within Austria to two people? [[Abg. Aumayr: But you have made the request!]] Mrs Aumayr! I have at least carried out research myself, and because of these investigations I have realized that there is indeed a need for change. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You make the request, and then press!]] This also shows that we are in a position to change structures, not to put them as absolutes, but to actually deal with the needs of the population. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's a round-bastlery!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Aumayr and Ing. Reichhold.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is embarrassing!]] I believe that the budget discussion of the last two weeks has shown that it was actually only about the fact that the individual parties have played political positions to the public. The actual criticism of the federal financial laws was rather sparse. What bothered me personally was the lack of language culture. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should call ourselves into consciousness: We must not expect this Parliament to have a high reputation in the public when we constantly beat with verbal jury around us. It can't go on like this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As mayor, I'm telling you: Many of the people involved in this process of language retention should take part in municipal council meetings once. I have often found that the people who are volunteering there understand their office in such a way that you want to work best for the people and also express it in their language usage. This should serve as an example for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We of the Austrian People's Party are aware that, with the decision-making of the federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997, we are burdening the Austrian people a great burden. However, we also know that we can expect the understanding of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Wabl: How do you know?]] We know that from surveys. We will do everything we can to explain to the Austrian people the sensibleness of these reform measures, and we will try to find acceptance on a broad basis for these reform measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. As a result of changed forecasts and resulting changes in the federal budgets in 1996 and 1997, I have the task of submitting amendments to them. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! As chairman of the Committee on Budgets after these four weeks of intensive deliberations, which have been held by Members, but also by representatives of the Ministries, I would like to thank all the parties involved very much for the enormous work done in these deliberations, for all the parties involved, for the staff of the Ministries and, of course, also for the staff of the House. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] I hope that these two budgets in Austria will provide impetus that will actually bring us closer to the goal that the state will become slimmer and more efficient and that we will maintain our excellent position in the European Union's concert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38170	These four applications are duly submitted and submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The Federal Minister for Justice has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38195	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has addressed a very detailed structural improvement measure, namely the satisfactory organisational structure at the district court level. This issue is also an important issue for the public at the moment, and I therefore think it would be useful for me to express my basic attitude here officially: It has always been my concern to improve the conditions for independent, functional, population-based and, above all, fast-working legal care. For the optimal performance of every company, every holding – even a district court is a business – a certain minimum size is essential today. Only a minimum size allows for a specialisation that is indispensable to the jurisdiction today, at least in the approach, to ensure an uncomplicated mutual representation in the event of prevention and to ensure the permanent presence of a judge in court. Small courts, where cases that are not even judicially dealt with, which would burden a judge’s labour force, have overcapacity, which, in part – naturally uneconomically – are offset by other activities, but also partly by appointment at a second office, which means that the judge is only to be found at one or the other court one day a week. It is obvious that if the judge is present at his court only a few days a week, which are not even predictable, it is a disadvantage for the people seeking justice to be affected. Ladies and gentlemen! Limited resources require special attention also to be paid to a level playing field across the country: both in the urban and rural areas, both in the use of judges and in the legal system, for the population. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out several times the possibility and the need for business rationalisation and savings measures in smaller district courts. Justice has a very high decentralisation compared to other government structures. There are more than twice as many district courts as district captains, although the citizen travels in the course of his life even more frequently to the more distant district headquarters than, if ever, to the nearby district court. Consider, for example, the responsibilities of the district headquarters for driving licences, travel documents, youth welfare matters, commercial registrations, vehicle registrations and much more. In order to maintain the decentralised structure of justice and as a countermeasure to the concentration trends in the agglomerations, the judicial system has set up a series of measures which cannot be found in any other area. In particular, massive shifts of competence have taken place from the courts to the district courts up to the limit of the representative: for example, all family cases, including divorces, all civil proceedings up to a dispute value of 100 000 S compared to earlier 30 000 S, almost all criminal cases which are at most threatened with a single year imprisonment. But these shifts of competence – naturally, I would like to say – have only marginally affected the smallest and small courts. I really do not see any further increase in competence among the District Courts, except for monetary adjustments to the dispute value. An improvement in the power of justice at the District Court level by increasing the district court unit is therefore only possible through a change in the district court structure which was largely established in the previous century, i.e. through a combination of small and small courts. This is facilitated by the extraordinary improvement in traffic conditions over the last few decades, that in general the mobility of the population – think of regular shopping in the shopping centres! – is an unevenly higher than in the past, and that, in the end, the basic book can also be consulted from anywhere. With regard to the current legal situation, according to which regulations by the Federal Government to amend the district court structure require the consent of the state government, after the successful conclusion of the merger of 14 district courts in Lower Austria a few years ago, on the basis of concrete proposals containing all the details, the Federal Ministry of Justice has had discussions with the governments of the Styria, Upper Austria and Salzburg, the other federal states, which are not in question, without a satisfactory outcome. On the contrary: I have the impression that, taking into account local wishes and ever-increasing elections, the national governments concerned are becoming increasingly unable to reach an explicit agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! Even in the case of a changed constitutional law, according to which regulations of the Federal Government – not only the Minister of Justice – concerning district court structure measures within a district headship party – and only those are to be covered by this regulation – only the hearing is required instead of the approval of the state government, it is not my goal to set up only one district court per district headship, and we do not want a district court size of at least five judges. Such expressions made public are pure moods. Even in the case of a changed constitutional situation, I remain in the case of the parameters for the merger which have already been applied in Lower Austria and which have been debated with the national governments of the said three countries, namely that the court's court's business case to be settled does not at least burden a judge or that business attack is slightly higher, but that court's location is close to the host court. I have explained this to all the Heads of State orally and in response to written questions and, last but not least, to the Federal Council yesterday. Of course, as far as the courts concerned are concerned, I would like to look for more relevant discussions with the governments concerned, whose opinions are heard, and I would like to put forward our arguments to them once again in order to achieve as much agreement as possible. Similarly, I have always stressed – and I assure you here – that aggregation measures in the interest of the population are suspended by means of accompanying measures, such as in Lower Austria, by regular court days at the location of the former court, so that the population has the opportunity to meet a judge either on the court day at the old location or on all other days at the new location. We are also committed to maintaining the local notarial system and to transferring the basic book survey equipment to the municipality. In addition, we will develop solutions in the interests of the judges and the judicial staff whose standings represent them, similar to those in Lower Austria, so that there is no legal deterioration. Although in the well-understanding interest of the population the strengthening of the power of the District Courts is in the foreground of our reflections on the groupings, it is of course also a result of several potential savings – savings of resources that are effectively used elsewhere and can lead to some compensation in the different situation of attack. In Lower Austria, this results in ever-increasing savings of around 9 to 10 million schilling annually, apart from the significant one-off effects due to the task of the sites. It is therefore not true – as has been said at the same time – that combinations do not bring savings, but yields. Due to the recent mergers in Lower Austria, as well as at the time in Carinthia and at the first tranche in Styria – and this is also being reversed by the head of state in Lower Austria and, as I hope, also confirmed by the Lower Austrian MPs – neither by the population nor by the Land authorities on negative effects. Rather, these mergers have been perceived and honoured on all sides as a strengthening of justice in the interests of the people seeking justice. I am sure that this will also be the case with the further mergers of district courts that I have planned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38282	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please, Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38306	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with a few quotes from a press release by the Federal Managing Director of SPÖ, Brigitte Ederer, who is also our colleague here in the House. In this issue, various admonitions were given – or should I say: - It's a warning? – expressed to the Greens, and I would like to make a brief replication on that. Distribution policy, as well as full employment, is at the centre of socio-democratic economic policy, as income loss is closely linked to job loss, says Gitti Ederer. – I agree with the second part of this phrase: Loss of income is closely linked to job losses, i.e. employment policy is one of the most important instruments of any distribution policy or policy to combat poverty. The first part, I think, can already be questioned. What is it really like with full employment policy to the extent that it is now reflected in this budget programme? I said here about a week ago from this point of view that I believe that Achilles fares, which are the real problem of this budget in the labour market, have an impact on the labour market, for at least three reasons: due to the obvious macroeconomic effects – tax increases, expenditure cuts cannot necessarily have an impact on employment – the restrictive public service policy, which may be useful for other reasons, and the third reason is the difficulty of early retirement, which will have to some extent an impact on younger jobseekers. There are good reasons for each of these measures – I have already said so – but in total this cannot result in an expansive employment programme. There are some counter-tax measures in the budget which we do not dispute. The problem, however, is that, from the point of view of our Greens, you set the wrong priorities, especially in the construction industry. It cannot be said that Austria's industrial future is in a long-term position in an area which is, in any case, very strong in international comparison. And in addition, from the point of view of the Greens, the big support programme in the field of road construction is still coming up. This is annoyed for two reasons: First of all, there are other areas where 1 billion Schilling would have greater employment effects, for example – Mr Kier has already mentioned it – in the area of old house renovation, in the area of thermal insulation. This would have had the advantage, in the view of the Greens, that CO2 emissions would be drastically reduced. And if we take the Toronto target a little more seriously, we are still not getting around measures in this very crucial area, namely heating in residential buildings. However, road construction is precisely the area that already has the highest CO2 emissions and also the highest dynamic, i.e. the fastest increase in CO2 emissions. I've already been on the 16th. In April, a number of measures could be put in place in the context of an employment policy. These are – unfortunately – not yet in the budget. They range from a different distribution of work, for example by introducing half-yearly or full-yearly Sabbaths, to measures to reduce labour costs from the employer's point of view. In addition: As far as the redistribution of work, for example, by the introduction of Sabbaths is concerned, this is not necessarily just an idea of the Greens. I can well remember that in the journal "Economics and Society", which is published by the Chamber of Workers, an essay was published by an employee of the Chamber of Workers in Vienna, namely Michael Tölle. There you can read how in Denmark, for example, these Sabbaths are carried out and to what extent they relieve the labour market. In any case, the last Wifo forecast is that, following the preparation of the 1996 and 1997 budgets, the forecast of unemployment rates had to be drastically corrected up, which, unfortunately, will reach a level which we have not known since the 1950s. This is not the fault of the Greens. I mean, there's something left out of social-democratic politics. It is not enough for full employment to be placidly conjured. Brigitte Ederer also said that it was true that the tax system did not divide from the top to the bottom enough, but that the consolidation programme met with this fact that tax measures primarily concern medium and upper levels of income. It sets out, among other things, the new overtime scheme, the introduction of the general set-aside rate and the introduction of special expenditure on higher incomes. I can't remember having criticised these three measures here from this speaker's desk or any other greener. In fact: They constitute a measure in the field of maintenance of progression and are thus a small counterweight to other measures. I will not criticize them in the future, even though, for example, they will cost me personally about 20,000 s net a year. But I feel that within the entire tax system it is acceptable. However, to demand that the greens agree with the tax increases in the area of income taxation on such isolated considerations, a little is required. I find that a bit naïve, not to say sham. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to see this in the package, and if, for example, the package includes cuts in the field of universities and at the same time increases in the area of road construction and housing development, then you will probably understand that this kind of package is not acceptable from the point of view of us Greens. This does not, of course, rule out the fact that some detail is correct from our point of view. I would also have preferred to have some fiscal measure replaced by a temporary supplement to income tax, with a degressive plan indicated from the outset, in order to increase the pressure that the famous structural reforms, which are always announced, will also come. – By the way, Mr Trattner: You can certainly remember that Professor Holzmann has also made this proposal in the budget hearing. [[Abg. Böhacker: Scientific opinion!]] Of course. Brigitte Ederer also points out that social transfers benefit the lower-income third disproportionately. The Wifo studies confirm this over and over again. And this is a large area in which you are now making massive cuts: precisely in those areas which are essential for the lower income classes, namely unemployment support, emergency aid and social transfers. That's the problem! Finally, Brigitte Ederer. It urges us, if we are already complaining about the high real interest rates, then we should also be in favour of economic and monetary union, especially for the latter. - Sure! I do not think we need this admonition. It is not a two-day time since I came here to this speaker's chair for the rapid introduction of monetary union. We only have problems with the convergence criteria, but not with monetary union as such. There are differences of opinion, as I suppose, in all parties, including within the Greens, as regards the optimal timetable, whether we should perhaps move a little or not. But there is no dispute as to monetary union as such. I think you can already read it in any official party papers. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Does this also represent Voggenhuber? In Salzburg he made different statements in the past!]] Voggenhuber lays very strong Weight on the criticism of the convergence criteria – I did this here too – but monetary union as such is quite positive. Maybe not as positive as I am, I like to admit that – there will already be nuances – but in general. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A progress!]] I do not repeat the details of the criticism of the Greens here, which can be read in a different opinion on the report of the Committee on Budgets, which has been available to you in writing for 14 days. Finally, I would like to take a look forward. What can we do about reforms within the budget process in the next one, two years? – We are waiting for the next budget programme with a certain amount of tension. The last one wasn't so special – I think I don't need to repeat that in detail now, it was also the first –: It was obsolete within a few months, and – which was the most significant thing for me – the expenditure ceilings for the individual departments in themselves were deleted at the decisive Council of Ministers meeting. So we are now very excited about what the next budget programme will look like, which must be presented by September 1996 at the latest. I wonder, however, whether this period should not be shortened. For it makes little sense, on the one hand, to present a declaration of government, a coalition agreement, and only six months later the budget programme, which must be in accordance with the coalition agreements, makes no sense. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Mr SPÖ said here about two years ago that the budget programme – what was its name? – the "Government programme cast in figures". So that was a little exaggeration, but in the trend of course it is true. The budget programme must be able to see how you can imagine the next four years of government work, not only six months after the Government Declaration, but actually you should know it at the same time as the Government Declaration. Cost calculations: ==References== In this House, we have a survey on the cost accounting in each department or in the public administration and on the role of the Committee on Budgets. And I say quite openly: I am glad that SPÖ and ÖVP are very supportive of this initiative and, in particular, the club members Khol and Kostelka are just this survey for 15. In May, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. I'm very excited about what's going to come out. In the meantime, for example, the following could be done: There are very few resorts that make a cost bill, although the Council of Ministers decided in 1992 that everyone should do so. The Ministry of Economic Affairs makes a cost bill. Now I would be interested in what consequences this has led to. One official once told me that they had found out there on the occasion of the execution of this bill that in the case of service trips – I have now forgotten the number, but we say 10,000, 15 000 S, it was a relatively high amount – so when travelling on duty up to this amount the bill is more expensive than the mission itself. - I mean, that's an interesting result. That says a lot about the paperwork, about the bureaucratic friction losses that occur there. There's something wrong with that. However, if a cost bill shows that the travel bill is more expensive than the journey itself, but then nothing happens, then of course this is a dispassion. The danger I see is that we will introduce cost calculations and thus have additional costs, namely for cost accounting and so on, but will not be affected. We must therefore consider a mechanism – sanctions, incentives – so that this cost bill actually leads to something, namely a saving, a more efficient course of the management process. The next point is a little thing, but I think he has been, since 50, if not known for 200 years: the "December fever". Is there really no way to deal with this "December fever" differently? I mean the phenomenon of having to spend what is still available by December at the latest, because otherwise it will be lost. And not just that: Not only does it fail, but if one has been sparingly – I almost said – I would have said – one would be in danger of getting even less money next year, because the budgets tend to be linked to the previous year. There are relatively simple mechanisms to change this, for example through an easier back feed. However, this must be linked to the fact that the resolution of the deposit in t + 1 should not be based on the expenditure approach of year t + 1; otherwise, one has nothing to do with making a deposit. It would also be worth examining why certain instruments already provided for in the Federal Budget Act are not, or at least insufficient, used too little. One of these is § 17(4) of the Federal Budget Act to carry out cost-benefit investigations. I have a slow impression that this section has remained dead right because perhaps the Ministry of Finance, perhaps elsewhere too strict ideas have existed, which must be a KNU – a cost- and benefit-examination. In any case, the regulation to be adopted by the Ministry of Finance has been in place since anno snow. I do not think so much of solving this in detail by means of regulations. Each department has very different areas of problem. It is a big difference whether a cost-benefit examination is carried out for a road project or, for example, in the health sector, and there should not be too much overrun with uniform methods. The other is a similar area: § 47 provides that a success control should be carried out in the case of larger individual projects. Why isn't that done or too little? Why, for example, do ministers not have enough incentive to be informed at least ex post, i.e. afterwards, whether a project has worked or not, and if no, why not? Next point, which now has a certain meaning in the context of our budget consultation: § 14. This provides that at least the financial impact of government documents must be identified. I can recall that within the 98 laws of this budget package – for example, within the framework of the ASVG Novelations – there is a detailed list of 5 million, which brings 6,3 million and so on, and that there are other huge areas – and that is likely to be the large majority – where there is no financial impact at all. None at all! Each of us knows that there are ongoing government templates, i.e. legislative drafts, where the cost estimate is obviously incorrect – where there is no cost, and a blind person observes, that cannot vote – and there are no consequences of it. I therefore believe that the Committee, whether the Committee on Budgets or the Committee on Budgets, should normally be given the opportunity to act in the absence or presence of false cost estimates. That alone is too little, however, because then the majority will pass over it again. So it must be a qualified minority of the Committee that can call for the calculation of financial consequences – or, for example, it has the right to instruct the Court of Auditors to give its opinion on whether this cost estimate or tax assessment is somewhat plausible or not. The last point – this will also be ours in the survey on 15. The question of whether the role of the Committee on Budgets should and could not be strengthened on the basis of experience abroad. That is a very complex question, I would like to acknowledge it, not only in economics but also in the legal field. I am very glad that we will have the pleasure of hearing the chairman of the German Committee on Budgets at the poll. The German Committee on Budgets is interesting in so far as it is interesting – I also ask the other colleagues who are not in the Committee on Budgets to think about it – when it takes parallel action. It would therefore not be possible in Germany – I am now constructing an example – for the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel in the Transport Committee to be decided, which will then be in plenary, and here it is going through or not, but it would be examined in parallel in the Committee on Budgets whether the data are semi-plausible and, above all, how the budgetary impact for the following years will look. There is currently no filter for us in Parliament, except for the possible veto of the Minister of Finance in the Council of Ministers, but he cannot exercise it too often, which would ensure that the work of the committees of experts is accompanied budgetaryly, examined - I do not want to say - with regard to budgetary implications. I see a certain lack in it. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The ÖVP is always against this!]] We'll see. Now I hope for the 15th. May, and I think if you make a survey, it'll get a certain self-dynamic. We will certainly come to interesting results, and then we will discuss them. I do not hope that now, as it were, the attempts at emphasizing will be put in place. I do not understand why a party should believe that this would only be to its detriment. It can make us quite difficult, if it is no longer as easy as before, to pass laws whose effects are too little known not only in the current year, but especially in the following years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38396	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38417	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Van der Bellen mentioned at the outset that he did not feel that this budget package would be effective in terms of structural measures in terms of employment policy. This may not be recognizable at the outset, but I believe - and he has confirmed it later on - that the objectives pursued with these two budgets, namely to achieve the convergence criteria in order to be able to participate in European monetary union, are very likely to have a very massive employment policy background. Especially in recent years, the devaluations in some of the monetary union countries have made massive cuts in the Austrian economic sectors, which have been in intensive trade with these monetary countries. This means that the objective of achieving the convergence criteria is a labour market policy measure, an employment policy measure. I would like to let Revue happen briefly the weeks since the last elections. We can point out that the two government groups have agreed very efficiently, very decisively and very quickly on government cooperation over the next four years and that, in a very short time, they have also drawn up an effective set of measures for structural adjustment laws. If Mr Kier says that the knives in the lawn mower are partly very low, that may be quite right. However, I do not want to rule out the fact that structurally desired effects are created. That is why I see this not only as a negative one, but as a very courageous activity of this Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! But all this is also to be considered from the point of view of the fact that these decisions, these political agreements of the coalition partners were very extensive and have caused a huge number of activities in our legislation. It is also an excellent performance of this ministerial bureaucracy to implement these 22.5 kilograms of major legislative changes in such a short time. I would ask you to look at this in this respect too. Finally, it is clear that the representatives of the government parties – including the parliamentary groups – were of course better involved in decision-making and decision-making than our colleagues from the opposition parties. That's right, but it wouldn't be understood if the government agreed on something and then, for six or seven months, all this would be discussed and broken in this House. In this sense, thank you very much to the members of the Federal Government who have prepared this package, to the officials who have worked intensively on it, and to all the colleagues who have so intensively participated in the discussions over the last few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38463	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38484	Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I wanted to talk about the interior and the security budget in the presence of Minister of the Interior. But perhaps it is quite good that the Minister of Finance also hears from a professional point of view how security policy takes place in Austria at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have been talking about the interior area this week, better about the Minister of the Interior. In his presence, we have dealt with the fact that he intends to act more strongly with instructions, not in accordance with the law, but clearly with instructions contrary to it. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have also dealt with his problematic attitude towards a sister or sub-organisation of the PKK that he has found no reason to take a judgment from the Supreme Court seriously and to ban the ERNK. We have also dealt with his intention to bring the army news service together with STAPO to a great intelligence service. We have found, once again, that this Minister of the Interior is unbearable for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A journalist of the "Small Newspaper" described our negative attitude to answer the question of the Minister of the Interior as follows: The liberals have filed a cold mistrust against the Minister. This – admittedly – strange or willful formulation was left to him, at least we, ladies and gentlemen, have a hot effort to abandon this Minister of the Interior in Austria and to save him from Austria and the Austrians. This is a very hot wish from us, not only because of the things that have been discussed as before, but also because of its attitude toward crime, its fight against crime and also because of its foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Both high crime and foreign policy are currently the most important or rather important issues in Austrian domestic policy. The Federal Minister is famous for the fact that statistics show a drop in crime rates, and indeed, if you go only after the percentages, the crime rate has fallen. The Minister of the Interior, however, overlooks the fact that organised crime, i.e. serious crime, has increased. Experts, for example, the former head of the Interpol, say: 30 percent of all crimes are already serious, organized crime. This is not indicated at all in the statistics. Nor can I rejoice when the Minister of the Interior boasts that the crime rate has fallen, that the number of criminal offences is now less than 500 000, because an advertisement in statistics is as much as the others. Theft of a Mercedes star weighs in the statistics as much as a chain of fraud that has ten suspects and a huge amount of damage. That is to say, the statistics say relatively little. I will prove to you how it actually stands with crime. In an interview on crime in 1995, Hofrat Szeitl, President of the Police of Vienna, said: Property crime dropped by 3 percent in total, but the number of business collapses has increased, the loss of housing and the collapse of the bank. The bicycle thefts decreased by 7 percent. On the basis of this, you can already imagine what these statistics actually look like and how seriously you can actually take them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also miss the fact that the Minister of the Interior is dealing with drug crime. He has not even done anything about the serious exploitation of drug crime, he has not presented any action, he has not submitted any proposal for what he intends to do about it, and he has adopted a scale of drug crime that is worrying, not only in Vienna but in Austria as a whole. I now give you a state picture of the first beautiful days in Vienna: The drug scene gets around in the city park, the drug scene moves into the open with the warm season. The city captain of the city centre says we do a lot of ads and sometimes have countless official acts – but in reality we can only disturb the whole thing and not prevent it. And he goes on to say: We can only drive the addicts out all the time. But not even we always succeed, he complains. Even if we manage to drive them away, they go somewhere else. That's how we roll the problem from district to district. This is really a sad prospect. That means that this is actually the capitulation before drug crime. And that you are actually capitulating also shows the latest draft of the drugs law presented by the Minister of the Interior, a draft that is nothing but another step towards the release of drugs. – And we absolutely reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of the Interior and also the Minister of Justice are watching completely cool and inextricably how the drug smugglers roll their goods unhindered across the border. The heroin is getting better, more and more fine, increasingly cheaper, and in the last three years there has been an blatant price decline: 1 gram once cost 2 000 S and now costs 700 S, making the addiction easily accessible for many wide circles. But, as has been said, there is not a single crime fighting measure on the part of the Minister of the Interior. On the contrary: You from SPÖ and ÖVP go this way with the Minister of Justice, and you also want to milden the legal situation. For example, nothing is done to limit the import of drugs. Even the head of the German border police says that the Austrian borders are absolutely permeable. The head of the Bavarian Border Police, Mr. Josef Heisl, was here in Vienna and said: A border army, as planned in Austria, has no impact. Such criticism is practiced by the head of the Bavarian border police. He says: Millions of people are on their way to EU countries, including many arms, drugs and human beings. Only if we act together can this avalanche be stopped. And on top of that: It is impossible to do so with this border army, which is supposed to take only half a year of fast-seated courses with us. But Mr One sat there and laughed happily at a glass of wine, instead of taking it to heart and finally doing something about it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only is drug crime escalating, but it also increases trafficking in human beings, the smuggling of weapons, money laundering. And I can again quote from the UN search-tox control report, which shows Vienna as the hub for dirty money; Vienna is designated as the base of the East Mafia. – This is a very serious thing, ladies and gentlemen! Even the director of the Russian central bank Melnikov says Austria is a true Dorado for the professional money washers. – But nothing is done! The Minister of the Interior makes no proposals at all on how to deal with this phenomenon. Now a German colleague says to him: Just as he plans border protection, it doesn't work, so many criminals travel in, they travel through Austria unhindered, the Germans then have the problems at the borders!, but you don't mind at all. We must look at our reputation if the safety of the Austrians is not worth it. There is an urgent need for action, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only that these serious crimes are spreading, the perpetrators are becoming more brutal and more and more bleak in their actions. And we stand there helpless, ladies and gentlemen. An experienced executive says: The Romanian mafia even hits the Russian mafia with brutality. And on top of that: A headquarters of the Romanian criminal syndicate is Vienna. A police commander said frustratedly: Well, I'm not surprised that one of the Romanian criminal gangs, who has recently driven their beings, is still running around freely, for he is warned by paid informants again and again when it becomes "close" for him. We know that the Romanians have a moustache in the Austrian representation in Hungary, where visas are issued extremely unbureaucratic, namely for a small "cost contribution" of 5 000 p. – that is, that our authorities are also enforced by criminals and people taking bribes. We hear it, then and again, such scandals come to the public that visas, residence permits and everything else are issued on the basis of bribes. That is something you must take seriously, because you must finally act! I think it is unfortunate that the Minister of the Interior sees no need for action, that Vranitzky still expresses his trust to this Minister of the Interior – and the ÖVP enslaves to and fro. Before the election, she disapproves of trust, and after the election she once again wallows together with the socialists. That is not the way to make a security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a terrible and terrifying fact that the Austrian executive of this organized crime, this serious crime, has not at all grown. We are not prepared for the fight against organized crime, ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, we have watched quietly how the Mafiabosses have established themselves here in Austria. Only 30 Russian companies are established in Austria per month. A commander of the executive says – not from me – that these companies are only set up to operate money laundering here. There is no real business at all, but these are just business firms. – 30 new Russian companies per month! The bosses, the bosses of the Mafia have really found an ideal field here in Austria. They have a convenient way to wash money. You can easily get a visa. They can easily obtain a visa for their business friends. And it has already spoken internationally that everywhere it is harder than in Austria to get an entry permit. These bosses also easily get citizenship, and they can also buy very easily land. Then why should they not settle in Austria? All of this falls on our minds – also internationally. Austria is increasingly becoming a hub for international crime. – And we want to prevent this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You from the SPÖ and also you from the Austrian People's Party make this possible with your policy. In this situation, in view of this serious crime, the Minister of the Interior simply abandons 1,000 officials. First of all, I believe that he can be pulled over the table by the Minister for Finance, because it is impossible for us to abandon 1,000 officials. But now I know that the Minister of the Interior has not been drawn over the table by the Minister of Finance, but that it obviously belongs to the philosophy, to the ideology of the Minister of the Interior, to decommission the executive. He would prefer only peace judges who walk through the streets and wake up with palm bets and always only "Peace! Peace!" call, but not an executive, who also enters. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] But no. How do you want to fight organized crime? – But not with an executive who is not prepared for it at all. But that doesn't surprise me anymore, and I've already said: I think that is the philosophy of this Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior does not believe that the population is afraid of crime. He says that the uncertainty of the Austrians is simply agitated, the reality looks quite different. He also says that for him security is given not only by military, armed and police, but the term "security" is essential in terms of security against the risks of life. This means that all sick people, not only well-off medical care, can afford pensioners the pension they are entitled to receive not only financial support but also help to find work again. - That's what one said. The Minister of the Interior therefore believes that the fears that the people have are only social fears. I admit that people also have social fears. And because of the policy of SPÖ and ÖVP, it is no wonder that people are afraid of their pensions and jobs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But people are also afraid of the criminals, besides the fears of security, of crime. Citizens already fear the question: How long can I drive on the subway without anything happening to me? Can I still drive at 7 o'clock in the evening without having to be afraid of being attacked? People are afraid to go to a park. Look at this! Why don't you deal with the fears of the population? – And then you hear from the Minister of the Interior One thing that people really need only fear to have their pension – and that, although he has no solution at all to the issue of combating crime. I do not think it is possible to deal with the fears of the population in this way. I believe that the fear of crime must be taken seriously by the people. After all, 600 criminal acts are committed in one day in Vienna alone. – And the Minister of the Interior says that these fears are only addressed. – This is completely absurd, ladies and gentlemen! But instead of taking measures to combat crime, how to frighten the population, it is the Minister of the Interior's top goal to change the laws of foreigners. I was really disappointed: I have expected the Minister of the Interior to initiate measures in the first place, in the face of 500 000 crimes committed in Austria in the year, aimed at reducing this high rate of crime. - No! The first concern of this Minister of the Interior was to revise the laws of foreigners. This foreign package is already on the table and will be dealt with after the budget consultations. One also wants to promote family integration. Mr Finanzminister, I believe that this is of interest to you too, because that means nothing more than that some 150,000 foreigners come to Austria, 100,000 children and 50,000 spouses – and that at such an unemployment rate! In Austria we now have about 300,000 unemployed, of which about 150,000 are unemployed foreigners. And then the Minister of the Interior says that there should be more foreigners coming into Austria! There's a blatant need for apartment. Look at your party friends in Vienna, they will be able to sing a song about the fact that housing activities cannot even keep pace with the growing need. But according to Minister of the Interior, even more people are supposed to come to us. We have a disastrous cost fiasco at the social insurance institutions. We even have to cut short. It is discussed that the sickness benefit is no longer paid, that all prescription fees and so on should be increased. – But the Minister of the Interior wants even more foreigners to come to Austria! 100,000 children! What do you think is the cost to the social state? That is why I would ask you, Minister of Finance: Talk clearly to the Minister of the Interior! Look You don't just want him to give up 1000 cops what's in your interest, but try You also want to talk to him about how he imagines the financial situation when another 150,000 foreigners come to Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Austrian population also thinks as we do. There has been a survey by the IMAS Institute, which states that 62 percent of the population are against more foreigners. Well, the population sees what burdens it is burdened with, it means that it is impossible to increase these loads. The population is so smart and realistic that it knows that additional foreigners would mean an even greater burden. No, we say that there must finally be zero immigration in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] More and more illegals are coming across the border. The Minister of the Interior is building around millions of schilling... [[Abg. Murauer: Suppose we have zero immigration, how do we proceed?]] What do you mean, how's it going? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] I'll explain this to you more precisely. Look, this zero migration is very easy to imagine. We have 150 000 unemployed foreigners, and if you address the employment situation, you have to see that these work and find a job again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of the Interior is setting up a border guard which costs a lot of money and is inefficient. As we have already heard, we have therefore been criticized by our German neighbours. More and more Iraqis, Iranians, Albanians are illegally crossing the border. Terrorists fear that there are also Kurdish activists or unemployed Afghan freedom fighters sent to Austria to wait here for their efforts. And the whole federal government is watching. The Minister of the Interior is simply not able to deal with these problems, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! You are the man who can also call the Minister of the Interior to Raeson, you can tell him that his ideas are the ideas of a dreamer. First of all, they are not eligible for funding, they are not accepted by the population, and they are not feasible for the population and the economy as a whole. The Minister of the Interior does not take note of all that we say to him – unfortunately God! He already has the draft new foreign law in the desk drawer, with which, as has been said, this family union is to be decided. It tells us again and again that the family union is a human right. That's not true at all! Look It is the subject of Article 11 of the Convention on Human Rights. There is no word to say that a family union must be guaranteed. There is also a judgment of the European Court of Justice in which it states: It is the competence of the individual countries to regulate the immigration of family members. But the Minister for the Interior, the Left in the SPÖ and the Greens want to agree that we would be in violation of the Human Rights Convention if we did not allow anyone who once came to Austria to reclaim his entire family. – No, we stand on the ground of the law, and we will continue to do so! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of the Interior wants to realize his multicultural dreams at the expense of the Austrians, at the expense of our budget – and we are absolutely against that. We will not stop showing what this Minister of the Interior is doing here in Austria, what he indicates to the Austrians. We do not agree with this Minister of the Interior. And I ask you, Minister of Finance, because you are here today, that you, too, tell the Minister of the Interior that his position is simply no longer portable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[11:21]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38648	High house! I announce the following: Mag. Stadler and colleagues have in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure calls for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to be examined First of all, the political and legal responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior of the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the neglected, improper and missing security-related measures against the Kurdish Communist Workers' Party (PKK) and its sub- and sub-organisations, Second, the political and legal responsibility of the German Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the neglected, improper and missing investigation steps in connection with the investigation of bombing in Austria, in particular the letter bomb series and the terrorist attacks in Klagenfurt, Oberwart, Stinatz and Ebergassing. The applicants asked for a debate to be held. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of today's agenda. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38682	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There was hardly any such intensive and concentrated work in the High House as in the past few weeks. It was discussed a lot, it was jumped back and forth, we had a 100-billion schilling package tied up, there were two budgets created, and there were 98 legislative changes. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Jumped down, fell down!]] The reason for this is obvious: It is primarily a matter of consolidating the state budget. Some or many words were positive and very constructive – also on the part of the opposition – but there were also a lot of negative and destructive versions here. Most of the negatives came from the liberal side – which was not to be expected otherwise. I would like to talk about a subject that Mr Haider and Mr Mag, Mr Haider, have been annoyed on Tuesday. We have dealt with Schweitzer in her remarks here, namely the issue of Objective 1 area of Burgenland. They presented it as salopp as if the money were being thrown out of the window. It was described as a huge debt on the part of the country, so that we can afford the Objective 1 area. And they meant by the example of Lenzing's business settlement that it would use 10 million schilling for the creation of a job. They have presented this as if there were only Lenzing and as if the citizens of Burgenland were not able to benefit from the opportunities arising from the classification as Objective 1 areas. – This kind of representation cannot stand here in the House, which must be corrected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've got 2nd. ==References====External links== I've already noticed: These arguments, which were presented this week, will also be found in the election speeches of Dr. Haider in Burgenland – arguments, speckled with half-truths. And such "arguments" must be addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] First of all, Mrs Aumayr: Objective 1 area is the Burgenland because we need to catch up in the economic sector. Compared to the European Union, the gross domestic product per capita is 65 percent. Secondly, We have a new challenge and a new situation due to the opening of the border. Thirdly, Especially in Burgenland, we still need to expand the infrastructure across the board. And that's why there are the various possibilities – and not just those that were presented, like the company settlement of Lenzing. There are different opportunities and opportunities, and these will be of full benefit to Burgenländer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Starting with the EU programmes, there are a lot of projects, I could hand them over to you, and this has nothing to do with Objective 1 areas. But we also have a lot of projects in the Objective 1 area, which will be implemented, in total, 375 projects have been submitted in Burgenland. And we will certainly do everything to be able to implement every grandeur we get from the EU and, of course, from the Federation accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schweitzer. Now on the subject of Lyocell. You think it's wasting almost 10 million schilling for an additional job. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold]] – You do not know, Mr Reichhold, what is happening in the South of Burgenland. There are too few jobs there, almost no jobs. You don't know that! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh, yes, we know that!]] And it was finally the decision between Austria and Thuringia, and it was the decision in favour of Austria, in favour of the Burgenland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The orders were awarded to other federal states!]] Mr Schweitzer. Remember what this means for subcontractors, industry and industry! A whole region is being revived with it, and that's a good thing. We've really achieved a lot. Mr Schweitzer. I just want to tell you: We have achieved a lot, not only as a Objective 1 area, but also for our farmers. You always represent some half-truths in your Sunday speeches. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Interference!]] But we have fought 310 million schilling for our farmers, and we will tell our farmers that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have picked up half a billion schilling for tourism, we have used 200 million schilling for small businesses – and we have provided 100 million schilling for micro and small businesses. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Have you taken a powder?]] So, as you are trying to present the economic policy of the Burgenland, that is by no means true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schweitzer. In these two weeks, no real proposals have come from you on how to clean up the budget. . I know only one proposal from you, and this is a reduction in party funding. You know very well that the two major parties will vote in favour – and if they voted against, your party would be particularly affected. Why to operate You're an election challenge in Burgenland regarding the National Council elections? - Because it's about the money! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Schweitzer. Why has Mr Rumpold been exchanged as the Federal Managing Director? - Because he forgot to seek promotion. So it's about the money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of Rumpold, Haider has now brought his colleagues Schweitzer. Why? – Because he knows exactly how to create social funds, how to get back to money. – That’s your policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schweitzer. They place in the Burgenland – the election campaign has already begun –: [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: May I ask a question?]] "Two who hold your heads for you." – You have never held your head, you have never held responsibility in this country, nor will you bear any responsibility. They didn't hold their heads in the Burgenland, but they held their hands! That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the liberals in Burgenland, I only think of one thing, where I hold it with Karl Kraus, who meant: "When the sun is deepest, even dwarfs throw long shadows." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to budget: We have enough opportunities in these two budget estimates in 1996 and 1997 to develop economic policy in Burgenland as well. I also refer to the 600 million for kindergarten facilities, I refer to the opportunities we have received in favour of farmers – without these opportunities we would have crashed in this area – I refer to employment and location security policy. I believe that we can only deal with the problems of the coming years if we have courage to risk, courage to change, courage to the truth and, above all, courage to look over our own garden fence. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] These are our confessions for the future, and let us not break up with opposition politicians like you, and let us not miss them at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38879	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e38906	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals have already deposited their position on the environmental chapter last week in the context of the discussion on the structural adjustment law here in the house. I would therefore like to talk about something else today on the current occasion, namely in the discussion on water use and also water taxes, which is to be held in Austria recently. I would therefore like to deal with this, in particular because Mrs Krammer has now issued a draft of a new drinking water regulation, which will put out the 30 milligrams of nitrate per litre planned from 1999 onwards. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not an argument that, because we cannot achieve these values, we simply change the regulation now, because that means that any environmental policy must lose its credibility. If only one remains steadfast enough on the structures, then the policy reacts simply not to make changes, but to adapt them to the actual conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! We are not talking about the "pollution of the month" on the part of the Liberals, nor are we in favour of formulating utopian goals, but we are missing that the Federal Government is directing its environmental policy to its own objectives. – That, ladies and gentlemen, we are massively criticizing! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In this context, this water tax is that of the Steermärkian Landtag on the 23rd day of the year. April has decided, a particularly important aspect, because there can be no doubt that the motivation for this tax is a revenue-side budget adjustment of the Styrian budget – but that under the cover of ecology. It is the Styria – and that is what I am saying as the Styrian Member – that it is not up to the Styrian Landtag to adopt such a measure, but it must not be so far from the fact that the measures are no longer justified and, in particular, they are heavily affected by it. I do not want to talk at all about the fact that we here in the House are having intensive negotiations to establish a committee of inquiry on environmental tax reform, and that such measures of the Steermärk Landtag naturally are compromising the scope for action in favour of an ecological tax reform, i.e. resource taxation, but at the same time reducing the human labour force from tax burdens. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of the financial compensation being seriously affected by this Steermärkian land-day measure. This, ladies and gentlemen, makes it necessary, in our view, for the Federal Government to object to this law. It is not only justified to object to this law but also necessary. We have therefore also decided to put forward a motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, and we would also like to invite you to join this motion for a resolution. Now, without prescribing the Federal Government in weighting the individual reasons, I would like to take a few aspects out of it: On the one hand, the introduction of a "water schilling" has been discussed for years – both at the federal level since the mid-1970s, one has then distanced from it, but also in the Styria this discussion has been flamed up again and again – but on the other hand one has not gone through it. In view of this long period from the mid-1970s until now, it is incomprehensible, especially in view of the fact that such a new type of tax constitutes a fundamental change, that in the Styria, those popular rights for the integration of the citizens of the country, which are provided for under § 36 of the Styrian Constitution, have simply been suspended. It is not credible that there is a urgency to the extent that one does not even want to comply with the popular rights imposed by the Styria itself, although of course the private households will of course be heavily affected by this tax. The alleged primary ecological reasons which led to this legislative decision are not credible. They are not credible, therefore, because the explanatory remarks of the legislative decision expressly state that the environmental steering effect, the environmental steering effect of this tax cannot at present be estimated. That is, although environmental reasons have been mentioned, it has not even been worth considering what changes this will bring to mind – in particular, ladies and gentlemen, because this law has also introduced very far-reaching exceptions. The exceptions concern, for example, mass animal husbandry. There is the Connex on the draft regulation by Mrs Krammer. The fact that the groundwater is so heavily burdened with nitrates in the Leibnitzer Feld is because there is intensive pig farming there, which is especially carried into sponges, and that is then this great amount of manure that is driven without prior treatment... – without any use of this product, I say now, for a biogas gain, which is then also less ecological load. – No, you just spray it on the fields, and it is, of course, flooded into the groundwater. – Nevertheless, the Styrian law provides for an exception for mass animal husbandry. The Styrian companies are also exempt from this water tax if they withdraw the water and return immediately. It is not even planned that certain limit values provided for, for example, by means of other provisions of material law should be complied with in order to obtain an exemption, but only the circumstances of withdrawal and recovery justify the exception. However, it is not to be seen that, for example, those companies in Vienna – and this is mainly the case in Vienna – which cannot, of course, do, but are very likely to receive Styrian water, are not included in this exception. If there is an objective justification to exclude the business sector, it must apply to the Styrian companies as well as to the Vienna companies. We are not prepared by the Liberals to accept such equality simply irrevocably. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The construction of the exceptions, ladies and gentlemen, also makes it quite clear that it is only a matter of the greatest possible increase in revenue, and this is also seen in the distribution of revenue: With an estimated revenue of 500 to 600 million Schilling from this "water tax" only 300 to 400 million Schilling will be paid to Vienna. We believe that this affects a very massive federal interest, because the achievement of the Maastricht criteria must not be carried out by individual local authorities at the expense of other local authorities. It is not the case that administrative savings potentials are not justified that administrative reforms do not take place, that expenditure-side reorganisation of a budget does not take place, but that a federal country is trying to reorganise its budget on the side of the budget at the expense of another federal country. This is a path that must necessarily pass the Maastricht criteria, because the Maastricht criteria must be reached together by all Austrian local authorities. – But if this example makes school, then the weakest local authorities will remain on the track in this conflict, and these are the communities. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: It cannot be useful for the communities which have already been heavily burdened by the task and which have the financial impact of the budget to be taken into account, to be put under further pressure. The last point, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for us to prepare and submit this motion for a resolution is that there is no mention of the impact of such a measure on the competitiveness of the economy in the explanatory remarks of this Styrian law at all; this is not mentioned in the explanatory remarks. There are not even key data to estimate the impact on competitiveness. That also means, ladies and gentlemen, that negative effects on the labour market are not excluded, but are also not predictable, and can therefore not be responded to politically. Ladies and gentlemen! For these reasons I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39031	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Riedler has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39055	Mr President. High house! Minister! From this point of view, we have heard a lot of criticism of the budget negotiations, of the draft budget. It will show the time what was justified and what was not. It seems to me that it is also time and that it is the right place to point out that there are absolutely intelligent, smart and forward-looking solutions which are linked to the following two consolidation budgets that we have to decide on. Since I come from Styria, from Graz, I would like to point out an area of particular importance to Styria, namely the financing law for rail infrastructure, which has been adopted in connection with the Structural Adjustment Laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The financing of rail development, which is of particular importance to Austria – and we are undoubtedly in an infrastructure deficit – has so far been subject to budget cuts that in such cases very little money has been available for these important and necessary expansion measures. In other words, consolidation measures necessarily pose problems in terms of rail development. The current scheme has led the ÖBB to carry out the financing of its rail network through loans and, in part, via the ASFINAG. These resources are no longer sufficient – that is clear and clear to see. Therefore, the establishment of a fund company, i.e. the Rail Infrastructure GmbH, was a correct step which was set up in connection with these structural adjustment laws. For investments by the ÖBB, for investments by HL-AG, i.e. high-performance AG, and the Brenner Railway Company, these funds are now available in a way that can be expected to return to 60 percent by means of a return on funds, including the current railway toll. That is to say, it was an intelligent solution that will lead to money being available in the future to drive forward rail development in Austria. At the same time, the government's draft has already decided on the possibility of getting private funds into rail development. If one believes in a Wifo study, then the rail development programme can ultimately be implemented cost-neutrally in the medium term, which is a sensible, intelligent and, in my opinion, also logical and correct in the sense of the environment, which is enforced by this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The investment volume is at least 12 billion schilling per year, which directly flows into expansion, directly into civil engineering, improving infrastructure and at the same time undoubtedly having positive labour market effects. Most of the investment in the first place still consists of budget resources – this cannot be different – but of course it means that the control of the Minister of Finance is essential because it is about public funds. But now I would like to refer to the particular importance for Styria in this context. For us, there are currently three major development projects in the area of railway development. The first project is the Semmering Base Tunnel. I would like to expressly say at this point: Not only for the SPÖ Group, but also for the Styrian ÖVP delegates, and in reality for all Styrian Members, the Semmering Base Tunnel must be an urgent project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Without a Semmering base tunnel, the Styria will become an insurmountable economic residue. The second point, which is essential, is the extension of the Koralm line, which is directly linked to the Semmering base tunnel and the expansion of the railway infrastructure. This is a project which is only at the planning stage, but which is also very important for our Carinthian colleagues. The third point I would like to point out is the necessary double-track extension of the Graz – Spielfeld route, in particular with the thought of a connection to Koper. The sooner it can be built, the better, so I believe that the money that is made available is also of particular importance. Without this law it was not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, these infrastructure measures are also internationally recognised. At the 1994 Central Transport Ministerial Conference, for example, the extension to Koper was referred to as a priority project. If one imagines that the cheap waterways from which the Styria is currently cut, in fact, industrial production in particular allows the opportunities for the future that we need, one can imagine the importance of this investment programme for Styria. This means that within 17 years, 200 billion Schilling will be invested on a price-based basis throughout Austria in 1995, ensuring employment for about 26 000 people for 17 years. . I would like to see those who can still say that these measures are not employment-effective and cannot be of vital importance to this country. Ladies and gentlemen! The money backflows to the public hand amount to a total of 160 billion schilling at that time, and of them 120 billion shilling goes to the federal government. I therefore believe that this is an example which is a successful measure in connection with the structural adjustments or with the two-year budget presented to us, and that this is a work that can be warmly congratulated on the Minister of Transport and the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my first speech, allow me to say something about my impression of the past weeks that I have been able to gain here. I came – I had held a mandate for three years – from the Graz municipal council; I was there for a year together with colleague Rossmann. What Mr Mühlbachler said is quite right: There is a different tone in the municipal offices. [[Abg. Wabl: A hard school!]] – Although this is a hard school, I must say that it has been a very good school, and there is something that I sometimes have to miss here, namely mutual personal respect. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I met my colleague Rossmann as someone with whom you can speak very well, someone who is quite able to spread personal sympathy, so a nice interlocutor. Yesterday, she came down here and said in a matter I know nothing about about a person I do not know personally, namely, honourable Member, things that make one simple and simply speechless – especially if they are said by someone like Mrs Rossmann without giving any proof. I am not the defender of Mr. Stumbling – he is speaking enough, and he also has very good defenders of his cause in his ranks – but, ladies and gentlemen, what Mrs Rossmann has done here, namely personally attacking someone, personally moving into the dirt without providing a single proof, such a thing would simply not have happened in the Graz municipal council. – Ladies and gentlemen! The plenary could indeed take an example of some of the councillors! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's why I'm going back to the Graz municipal council now – that must come now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's why I'm changing the National Council now!]] - Yes! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, what I think is really a tactical plague, but it is fought with very sharp weapons, the Florett is the dung fork. In fact, it is about our colleagues from the Freedom Party having a hope that they will have the hope that they will succeed in splitting this coalition. They're trying to get to people, and they're trying on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! As a young and perhaps not very experienced Member, I still say to you: You will not succeed in this project either in 1998! The coalition will endure this legislative period! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] So that you can see the methods, what the dung fork is really, an example: The many-skinned colleague Stadler must have an elephant skin, because just as he calls into the forest, it comes back, he is not badly attacked. This Mr Stadler – today we will probably hear it again in connection with the request to set up an investigation committee against the Minister of the Interior – among other things claimed – freely out and, of course, without providing any evidence – that the Ebergassing attack would not have been clarified. He has made a very long series of allegations. Then he claimed that one of the crimes or one of the faults of the Minister of the Interior would have been that he did not let the Lower Austrian criminal department work. His bad luck was only that Major Franz Polzer was sitting from the Lower Austrian Criminal Department above, listening to that and then saying to these contributions: This has nothing to do with scientific research. – Ebergassing attack clarified, ladies and gentlemen! Actually, this is a mirror fighting. It is only a matter of pouring someone who is thought to be... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: For example, the Stadler who is not there!]] He probably read the "standard" yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're about to throw someone! That's the evidence for yourself!]] - I'm not gonna stop him from being here. I'd be very glad if he were here, I'd be very glad if he were here. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You can't make yourself a Biedermann and throw someone!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll go back to this confrontation at any time when he's sitting! I'm not afraid of Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But apart from that, it is symptomatic that the gentlemen leave the hall immediately after their attacks, because it will be unpleasant for them if they get the answers to their shake actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not I who said that, but it is in the "standard", which is quoted, and that is what Mr. Major Franz Polzer says. – It is simple and simply a stupid sense of what Stadler was talking about to say it in German, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Without providing evidence, the Major! You could say that too!]] Mr. Ofner! With all due respect, I must tell you: That's a tactical game, it won't go up. I look forward to the next three and a half years ahead. It will be a fruitful legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39242	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. – You have the floor, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39264	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the legislative period will not be as fruitful as the number of laws, as my previous speaker has now tried to express his wish. That is already fruitful enough what you have done here with your 98 or 99 changes under the structural adjustment laws. In fact, we do not want to continue in this way, and I think I agree with you on this question, at least with some of your ranks. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! "Mut zur Riss" has asked Member Steindl for the next years – of himself, of the members of the government and of the members of Parliament or of the coalition parties. – I would like more courage to be taken for granted. What do I mean by that? – More It is a matter of course, for example, of how to deal with laws here in this House, of taking the time to actually comply with the laws, not in the plenary deliberations, but in the committees. We didn't have that time. For example, if one had at least a transitional period, such as in the Sparpaket 1, for example, the pregnant persons in the birth grant, would have been more courageous to do so. At the time, it was still possible to reach out from you that in the form of a transitional period pregnant women had already been excluded from the birth grant and from the karenz leave allowance – at the time it was the karenz leave allowance. The entry into force with regard to birth aid now applies by 1. July, this concerns women who are already pregnant, and it is also in the care leave allowance. It would have been natural to exclude those women who are already pregnant who can no longer adapt to these legal changes by giving them a transitional period up to the 1st century. ==References====External links== But that was not possible. They did not have the Courage and did not want to take the risk of accepting this amendment here. We have tabled an amendment in the Committee and here in the plenary discussions. They were not willing and willing to agree to this amendment, although it would have been of course. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Read! They're still getting them! Read it well once!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Read! Read!]] I read it. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: They'll get them until 1997!]] Until 1997. It is not about paying for birth aid by 1997 but about women who are now getting pregnant. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: No! ==References== 12. 1996 the woman can become pregnant, then she gets the contributions 1996 and 1997...!]] It still concerns women in these... yes, these are the nine months, that is not going to happen anymore, Minister! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Birth until 31. 12. 1996!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: At the budget speech I still said: Doobling, cheating!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr Oillinger! The women don't get pregnant because of the money!]] It's also about karenz leave money. It would have been possible to make an exception in the karenz leave allowance, as in the savings package 1. – But They were unable or willing to do so. I think that is the least you could have expected from the parliamentarians here in this House – not now from you, Minister of Finance, it is already clear that you want to keep your grandeurs together. It was not possible for you to put this up for a transitional period for those affected, but it was very possible for you to put it up with the media print and the works contracts, not only in the committee but also in the plenary session; in the Committee, an amendment which was obviously so badly designed that it had to be supplemented in plenary by a new amendment. As it has not played a role in the loss of revenue by the exclusion of media print and other businesses. It was no matter how many millions or hundreds of thousands of schilling – in this case millions – are lost by granting a very rich holding an exception. Doesn't matter! You were willing to take the risk that your 100-billion package would be at risk. Otherwise, you have always argued that we cannot approve of any exceptions because otherwise this 100-billion package would be called into question. I think it has happened here in the decision-making process of this 100-billion package, and that is why I will allow myself to distribute, following this speech, a brochure which was prepared in the framework of the preliminary discussions on this budget by scientists and politicians in a survey or a workshop, where advice was given on what a budget might look like, what budget recovery should look like – unlike it currently works in Austria. It has also made some points and some comments on this type of budget creation, and I would also like to take the time to read to you briefly, to make you want to read this brochure and perhaps to use it to create a better budget for 1998, or at least to bring yourself to mind some of the thoughts that are contained in it, because I hope and also believe that you are capable of improving and learning, and that this budget, as I believe it to be a bad budget, cannot have been the last word that comes to your mind to deal with the social problems in our country. I'll just read to you a little bit: "The legal culture in this country, anyway an increasingly neglected basic value, has been seriously damaged. One changes hand-checked for exclusively fiscal reasons, which have a recognised function. The legal system is being confused by the hips of a speedy money acquisition action. One changes the framework conditions for the central economic and life-related dispositions of the people in the zigzag course." . This concerns precisely the issue of birth aid, the pension allowance, emergency aid and so on. "Every minimum legal change is thoroughly reviewed and advised according to the Austrian legal tradition. Now changes in the legal order of 100 billion are simply decreed and criticised with the 'Stigma' of the cording." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! It would have been necessary if you wanted to push forward structural reforms in this country, for example, that you would welcome what is so important to you from the EIA, for example: Fighting the flood of law. It is an initiative that you have presented in these days – with 70 000 or 100,000 signatures – but have not lost a word about the fact that "fight of the flood of law" is operated by the same people who here in this House adopt the laws, the law flood. It is a great pleasure, a paradox for itself, to formulate "the battle of the flood of law" and to want to vote in it diligently and to have to take good hands to the creation of 100 laws, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] You do so without thinking about it, Mr Puttinger, what you are actually doing with these laws of amendments, more bureaucracy. This is the problem that we have in this regard: that, with these hundred laws which you adopt here under the Structural Adjustment Act, you are creating even more bureaucracy, even more readability of laws, but only in minimum areas actually achieve structural reforms in an effective sense, in the sense of greater efficiency. What are you doing? What would have been necessary? – Solutions elsewhere! To look for solutions in the diagnosis of problems which we can find together in some areas here in Austria. But then you should not adopt 100 laws, but then you would have to take time, in an intensive process, as we know from other countries, and as it is quite true of tradition, of the legislative tradition in this House, to reach effective solutions in some of the areas where structural reforms are necessary. And these are the clear and slim solutions – but not a baroque law that surpasses everything in its monstrosity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Your solution is subsidized! We'll pay for everything! We subsidize everything!]] No, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You just said that!]] No, no, no, You are the one, Mr Puttinger, who, by means of these 100 laws, feeds a hypertrophic bureaucracy. This is the feeding solution for a bureaucracy that you decide here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How does special expenditure look like?]] They do not have to accuse us of taking action in certain areas of state regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How does it look about special expenditures? Give an answer!]] We are of course in favour, but we are for clear, simple and clean solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Give an answer! Please give an answer!]] Mr Puttinger! I have said several times in this House: For example, a simple and clear solution would have been possible in an area where we all wish, at least in the words, to create a clear, harmonised pension system. You refuse to do so, although you have said that before the elections, we agree. Now you're refusing! No more topic for your party! No more topic for you! No more question! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Has nothing changed?- Oh, my God!]] That is where we have solutions, Mr Puttinger, which are actually clear and simple. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Where is the additional bureaucracy?]] I'll show you that. This would save us a lot of bureaucracy, Mr Puttinger. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Please show us!]] It would also be possible not to save in those areas where you are now saving, namely the unemployed and emergency aid recipients, but to save in areas where you do not have to take away someone. This is possible and imaginable! For example, in the health sector: It would be possible to do this by extending decentralized old age care and old age care through extramural old-age care and old-age care. But don't go this way! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But that is already happening! In Vorarlberg! In Salzburg!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: There is already!]] It would be possible by reducing a device medicine. Don't go this way! It would also be possible to do so – I say quite consciously – in the area of housing development, a housing promotion, which is currently suffocating with complicated regulations, at carteled building prices. This is the problem in the field of housing promotion, where we find structures, complicated regulations, over-priced building prices, over-priced prices for the services that are provided, which make this housing promotion a promotion of construction companies, but not a promotion of people looking for housing. That is the problem we find in this area! You have always refused to do so and have not been prepared to make amendments in the framework of the laws you adopt here. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Then look at the new housing development model!]] They have actually carried out budget renovation in many areas according to the motto: Who has the slightest resistance? Who can't resist? Who here in this Republic and also here in this House has the slightest speech tube? – After this motto, you have tried to distribute the budget burden. And that's not a good way for tomorrow's society. Mr Steindl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and "Mut to risk," then you should actually overreact to this task and look for the risk, the risk which is also justified by the fact that you may also look at your own answers a little more precisely, that you are looking at what you have adopted with these 100 laws you have passed here, and with these budget laws which you are still adopting today, actually set up in the way of missing course for the Austria of tomorrow. I hope, Mr Puttinger, that if I distribute the brochure to you, you will also take a look at this brochure, that you are looking for the discussion and the debate, that you, together with us, need the debate about a society of tomorrow, about an Austria of tomorrow that we urgently need in the analysis, urgently in other strategic drafts, with us. Thank you. Mr Puttinger, you are very special.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39583	Mr Oellinger! Excuse me for drawing your attention to something. You have announced the distribution of a brochure. I suppose you mean a distribution of this brochure in the house, but not in the plenary room. I assume that the types of pressure distributed in the Chamber are taxed in the Rules of Procedure and that the distribution of such brochures does not fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. However, if this brochure were to be distributed, I would raise this question of clarification at the next presidential meeting. - Thank you. Mr Wabl! You have referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39607	Mr President. I assume that you do not wish to prohibit the passing on of information from Members to Members.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39640	But I am not convinced that this is covered by the Rules of Procedure, and I think we should talk about it in the presidency. I won't prevent you from distributing either. - Thank you. [[Abg. Wabl: Can newspapers be distributed regularly?]] Mr Kurzbauer has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39670	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With today's day, two parliamentary weeks are coming to an end, two weeks in which the legislator has created the basis or the direction of progress in the coming years. In the previous week, the decision was taken on the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act. This week, discussions took place on the federal financial laws 1996 and 1997, which we are voting on today. On the expenditure side, the 1997 budget approach provides for a reduction of 25 billion Schilling compared to 1995 and is around 740 billion Schilling. On the revenue side, more revenue of around 26 billion schilling is planned compared with 1995; the total revenue is estimated at 672 billion schilling. This means that, when implementing the planned measures, re-indebtedness in 1997 will be reduced to 68 billion schilling. According to the Wifo forecast of December, gross domestic product will grow to 2 516 billion schilling in 1997. Thus, the re-indebtedness of 68 billion Schilling will amount to 2.7 percent of the gross domestic product. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is about consistently implementing this consolidation programme, which is largely accepted by the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim of this reform programme is firstly to consolidate the budget and, secondly, to secure existing or new jobs, i.e. to bring about a healthy economic climate. Let me give some examples of what measures should help to bring about this healthy economic climate. Firstly, the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act: In this law, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary for 12 billion schilling to be available annually for investments in rail infrastructure, i.e. for railway development. All in all, over the next five years, this is 60 billion schilling. Secondly, the Federal Road Finance Act: In addition to the design of a bundle, a package of measures, with 33 billion schilling being made available for road development or road renovation in the coming years. Third, the Water Management Fund: By anno, a funding volume of 3.9 billion schilling is used for the municipal water industry, in addition, a special tranche of 1 billion schilling is fixed for the years 1996/97. Fourth point: In the Environmental Promotion Act, 1 billion Schilling was also fixed in the area of old load renovation for 1996 and 1997. All that, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, these are measures to secure jobs. A new survey has been published in a daily newspaper, which currently says that 80 percent of the population believe that jobs are unsafe. The reasons for high unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, are that there are too few job vacancies in some regions. Or: 83 per cent of the respondents believe that too little is done against abuse in relation to unemployment benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This also shows that we are on the right track with this reform programme. Now it is our task to take courage here in the House, the people – and above all, to turn to the opposition – and to send the message to her that we can look optimistically into the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39740	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e39761	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. I can only say to him, as also young Members, who are present for the first time at a budget debate in this House: He could also recommend, among other things, the good requests we have made in his group in such a way that they are also adopted. Then this procedure in Parliament might be more democratic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because what have we actually experienced in this budget debate? . We have seen that it is a keyword debate, we have seen that Mr Koppler can quietly say that Austria's industrial location is assured that new jobs would be created. It is precisely one thing he has not mentioned, however, that jobs have been destroyed by the bad economic policies of this federal government. That is the same thing you have to say. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mertel! They also like to make a small call again and again. I can tell you: I'm sure your calls don't bother me. If you were honest, I'd like to answer her. But what you have said now is not factual, so I do not have to answer it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What did I say?]] For me, as a worker in industry, it is one of the most important tasks to comment on the situation in industry. Because what happens? A third of the Austrian economic performance is provided by industry, which corresponds to a volume of around 700 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen. The industry has an engine function, and it is responsible for growth, social security, tax revenue and current account. But today the economy and industry are in a really serious structural crisis. The number of industrial workers, ladies and gentlemen, fell by 2 per cent in 1995 - I am glad that Mr Koppler is here to hear that too - the number of jobs in the construction industry fell by 7.9 per cent, and the prospects for 1996 and 1997 are not rosy but sad. [[Abg. Koppler: If I had known you were talking, I would have stayed outside.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If it continues as before, the Koppler will soon be the last industrial worker!]] The Section for Industry in the Federal Chamber of Commerce – which we might say to President Madethaner – fears a loss of 15 000 to 20 000 jobs in 1997. – That, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be in this House by means of good laws. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The average number of unemployed will continue to increase. In 1996, 217,000 unemployed are expected to be unemployed, with 241,000 unemployed in 1997. In this respect, I believe that Austria cannot be surpassed when drawing up statistics for the unemployed. I can document this as follows: If we compare the OECD and the EU tables with the table of unemployment statistics of Austria, it can be seen that in this case a falsification is made by the fact that, first of all, the workers who want to get into the work process, who have never been employed but who do not get a job, are not included in the statistics. So this creates a falsification. Secondly, the invalidity pensions – in Austria we go primarily the path of invalidity pensions – would also be part of the unemployment statistics, because they are the unemployed who have been faked away, so to speak. Therefore, our unemployment statistics in Austria are not as good as they are presented, but they have exactly the same level as they are in the European Union, and that is worrying. What about your pleas, ladies and gentlemen, who are very much valued by the government coalition? – The pleite wave rolls unhindered over Austria. In 1995 there were 2,043 the highest number of insolvencys in post-war times, including liabilities of 63.1 billion schilling. In 1996, this horror development will not weaken, and you, ladies and gentlemen, will not be able to prevent it, because you can restore yourself at the expense of industry and industry and then perhaps say: We have made a good economic policy. What have you learned about this in the ten years of the great coalition? – I think very little, because if I look at these Husch-Puch laws, which are already in need of reform, then I only need to take out the example of energy tax: There is a clear break from the ÖVP's commitment not to introduce taxes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You said that, but now you have introduced new taxes. Look You're looking at the energy tax! What does it do? – It's work-degrading! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the course of the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act, we liberals have made a request on energy taxation. What have you done, ladies and gentlemen, of the government coalition? . You have rejected this request, although you know that this energy tax is an average of 8,000 jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true at all!]] For research, you have nothing left at all, and I can prove this by not even agreeing to a tax exemption for research purposes in the case of natural gas. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] – That’s exactly how you are interested in ensuring that research is carried out and jobs are secured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For research, modest 720 million schillings are planned in the budget – and you believe that you have found the great happiness. I'm sure you won't get through with this! Dear ladies and gentlemen! By means of anti-economic laws and by means of a new tax burden, you will destroy jobs and endanger the economic location of Austria. The keywords and announcements I have heard so far from you do not represent any problem solutions. I'm just reminding you of some of the keywords you brought here: Employment offensive, Innovation offensive, Qualification offensive. I've heard all these words from you a lot. On the Qualifications offensive and on the topic of apprenticeship training: The fact is that many firms have to lock up their teaching workshops for cost reasons. ==References====External links== Feber 1996 shows this exactly. But we should try to make changes. And there is a wonderful example of how it is practiced in Germany. In Germany, teaching workshops are grouped together. There are companies that take up apprentices who come from other establishments, and this should also be promoted much more in Austria. [[Abg. Koppler: That's what we do!]] Mr Koppler, you know very well, only with speeches alone will we not achieve that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the situation of the job seekers in Tyrol. In 1995, the number of job seekers increased by 14.2 percent, but the number of apprenticeships decreased by 52.1 percent. And that, Mr Koppler, is very dangerous in my opinion! This is how exactly that future structure that we need so that skilled workers can be trained is prevented by you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: You didn't listen to me before! You just screamed, but you didn't listen!]] The average in Tyrol, which reaches job seekers, is 30.9% even above Austrian level, and that is certainly not bad. A slogan that I repeatedly hear from the Social Democrats is "Career with Teaching". What is "Career with Teaching"? With your economic policy, this is an empty keyword, Col. Koppler, a pure mockery for those people who want to make a "carrier with teaching". Federal Chancellor Vranitzky and Vice Chancellor Schüssel said – this is in the economic part of the "Kurier" of the 20th century. To read Feber on page 17 – it should be further upgraded the apprenticeship training. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: when, how, where? Ladies and gentlemen, where do we want to do this? What has happened so far? Just keywords! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where is your offensive to safeguard the economy and to preserve jobs? Where's your "foundation wave" you've announced? Nothing else is to be seen as merely approaches, but no corresponding execution to them. ==References====External links== It is worth noting that Mr Schüssel, Vice-Chanceller, said that 50 000 new establishments should be set up by the end of this legislative period. – After that we will look at each other! Or Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrnitzky: He promised 80 000 new jobs. But many workers who are considering setting up a business are likely to throw the towel before, given the bureaucratic obstacles we have in Austria. There is a wonderful statistics on this: Each holding uses an average of 560 hours of work to carry out unpaid bureaucratic work for the State. Further statistics are available: In the case of a complex wage settlement, a holding will need an average of 42 hours per year; Small businesses invest 14 times more time than large businesses. And there is some more curiousness in Austria: There are still 110 Austrian laws on this matter as a relic of the last century, but they still exist. If we want to create new jobs, we can only achieve this by promoting small and medium-sized enterprises. – But I have not yet seen any approaches in this regard from you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Structural Adjustment Act, with its retroactive provisions, in particular the removal of losses or the increase in the minimum corporation tax from 15 000 S to 50 000 S, cannot, in my view, help to ensure that the job security system in Austria takes place which we really need. On the contrary: In my opinion, this makes job security more difficult. As an employee and equivalent partner in our economic system, we certainly want to contribute to ensuring the competitiveness of Austria and Austria's economic location. But Austria is certainly not based on the high additional wage costs. These are the topics you need to hide something. I do not think that the additional wage costs are crucial, because I believe that they should be calculated in such a way that they are the result of a corresponding annual income and not the loss of income. [[Abg. Koppler: There is a different opinion about your partyobmann!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is allowed with us!]] I certainly don't need to defend my party keeper, he's probably better; he's, I mean, very speaking. But I can tell you one thing, Mr Koppler: I do not think that the additional wage costs, which are now called work-destruction, are crucial because of which the economic structure is supposedly not stimulated – which is not true. [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo!]] Employment costs are crucial, and in this respect we must be competitive in Austria vis-à-vis foreign countries. But there must be a healthy economic policy, and I miss it with us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For what are Austrian labour costs – we look at the statistics; Germany has higher labour costs –: Austria's labour costs are 29 percent cheaper compared to Germany and are 25 percent cheaper compared to Switzerland. Therefore, additional labour costs are not crucial, but they are crucial for the implementation of an economic policy which ensures job security. That's what we want, that's what many, many Austrians want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, however, there is still one crucial thing, ladies and gentlemen, as the "flexibilisation of the working world" is always mentioned: It is also necessary to take the appropriate approach, not just to say: flexibilisation for employers and employees!, but both parts are to sit at the table together and decide together on this law. A final sentence: Ladies and gentlemen! No one in Austria wants to face an entrepreneurial risk today, because the economic policy of this government is no longer to be trusted. We therefore reject the budgets for 1996 and 1997.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40003	Mr Müller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40024	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Our common task is to ensure prosperity, economic stability and social security in Austria. Budget consolidation is therefore essential, and the associated convergence criteria play a major role in the Financial Balance Act in particular. The ceiling of 3 per cent of gross domestic product per year is certainly a high level of debt, but this limit can be reached by the measures taken by the Federal Government. Of course, the commitment to achieve this objective jointly by all three regional authorities also needs national measures. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear to us that the Federal Government's budget cuts must be automatically reduced at national and municipal level. Therefore, the outcome of the financial compensatory negotiations with the local authorities constitutes the legal basis necessary to fulfil the convergence programme jointly and to absorb loss of revenue. In a state like Austria in particular, issues of financial compensation are not only an expression of the distribution of competence within the meaning of state performance, but also of the necessary autonomy in budgetary policy. If, among other things, we have to deal with the financial compensation today – a law that dates back to 1948 – I would like to say critically that with every new edition of this financial compensation law this becomes more vague. I am aware that it is difficult to make major structural changes – which local authority does not already have any revenue in favour of another local authority? – but the special treatment of the city of Vienna is, of course, very difficult to explain to a member of the federal state – although I agree with Vienna that it is experiencing special treatment due to its size and the fact that it is the seat of government and also the seat of international organisations. My critical remarks are mainly directed towards the distribution of housing funds. Although every time the attempt is made to change the distribution key away from the graduated population key to the more constitutional division by population, the fact remains that the Federal Capital alone is able to account for a number of additional incomes from this title. If this part of the dedicated housing funds were to be divided according to the population alone, Vienna would have to give up to 6.6 percent, which is almost 1.6 billion schilling, in favour of all the other Länder. It is gratifying that in 1996, the total number of communities was 2.25 billion, and in 1997 4.15 billion were added. The national budgets will be increased by 3.6 billion in 1996 and 8 billion in 1997. I would also like to stress that despite the necessary savings in this law, the announced "Kindergarten billions" will find its precipitation with 600 million schillings. The basic idea of activating the missing childcare facilities will certainly become largely reality. However, my joy is limited because the distribution of these funds will again take place according to the Vienna-favourable housing promotion key. Unfortunately, the remaining federal states have not yet been able to join the country's budgets, which reduce the proportions of income of the municipalities – may already be that they return to the municipalities in many areas on detours – from the beginnings by 25 percent in the 1980s to 10.5% and since 1989 to 8.3%. This financial law is increasingly extending the range of targeted subsidies from negotiation to negotiation. In my opinion, we should seek a more comprehensible solution for the next negotiations on compensation. I hope that once again it will be possible to get rid of the financing, where a local authority buys and all the others automatically pay. The problem of the financing of hospitals has shown us how the costs can explode. Throughout the financial compensation, I miss the increased financial consideration of those communities which, because of their situation, have no chance of economic impulses through operations. The causes for this can be, among other things, spatial but also transport policy. I note in my community, for example, that environmental conditions, to which, of course, all of us have to stand, are extremely limited in terms of the possibilities of winning farm areas. That is to say, in the clear text, that those communities in which nature conservation has always been a priority have become more economically successful. The right way will be to pay back in the future those regions and communities the financial failures they have because of their potential for revenue development. It's a vicious circle: Less economic activity means lower unit values, and this in turn means lower income from the basic tax for the municipality; fewer businesses mean fewer employees and lower municipal charges for the municipality, and so on, and so on. However, expenditure remains because, of course, even in these municipalities, the population does not want to give up the standard infrastructure. We cannot therefore call for equal value in the distribution of the funds of every head of our citizens and for not only economic power in financial allocations to be the sole criterion for the distribution. The question of infrastructure needs to be taken into account as much as the social gap needs to be taken more into account. Similarly, the natural resources, which do not play a role at all so far, should at last be given the importance which they attach to. The proposed financial allocations take into account to a certain extent: However, I do not think that it is yet possible to see a completely fair balance. In any event, it should be noted that the present outcome – even if it calls for further changes – is a compromise negotiated with all country representatives, a negotiated pact and will therefore be valid until the end of 2000. Structural reforms must be sought in the financial balance, which must gradually become budgetary-effective so that Austria and its federal and local authorities can continue to play an essential role in the future as an economically sound country and as a social welfare state in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40094	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm – You have the floor, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40130	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has not been so long since Mr Van der Bellen meant here: The air is outside, the budget is decided, very much there is actually not to discuss. The impression is probably that, Mr Federal Minister, you are smiling, but I believe that we still have a number of budget chapters to discuss. I have to say: Only the Federal Minister for Justice has taken his role seriously here and has appeared at least in the handling of this partial chapter. All other ministers, except the Minister of Finance, shine by absence. I would have expected at least that Federal Minister Molterer, who has two chapters to represent here, would once again look into Parliament. The fact that this is not the case makes it clear how "severe" this budget is also taken on the government side. Please allow me to say this as an introduction. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But you must not say "marionettes" to the Members!]] No, you can't do that, Mr. Colleague. That's forbidden, because you risk all kinds of things. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. . That we Liberals will refuse to approve this budget, we have, I believe, left no doubt. – I would like to take out an ideal chapter of the Federal budget, namely the chapter... [[Call at the SPÖ:Molder has come!]] Molterer is there – excellent, excellent, fit as called! Mr Federal Minister, I welcome you very warmly, and I come to Chapter 77, Austrian Federal Forest. [[Abg. Auer: Do you take back everything that was said before?]] Not everything! Molterer also took his job seriously and appeared in time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! This chapter 77 of the Bundesbudget, Austrian Federal Forest, represents an ideal chapter of what I think genuine reforms cannot pass. I am glad that the Austrian Federal Forest has not yet been integrated into the Structural Adjustment Act, as some other things have done. I do not believe that the reason why one has not done so much in this area, for example, when it comes to the exclusion of the Austrian Post, Mr Bundesminister, is that suddenly the great love that had arisen from the SPÖ and ÖVP would have been a great willingness to integrate the opposition parties more fully into the discussions is not that suddenly an increased need would have arisen after an all-party discussion, but the reason why it has not been dealt with in the budget is simply and decisively the fact that the government parties have not yet been able to agree on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! But this should not prevent us from letting this issue be forgotten over the next two years. The fact that in the Federal Forest sector everything is left as it is to say: Well, we still have a future privatization and reform potential, which one day will address in every manner, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be. We Liberals see in this area the need for a comprehensive reform approach, which, in our view, is not to be answered with a private foundation – as Federal Minister Molterer suggests – or with a maintenance of the status quo – as it may be discussed in the Greens, or a superficial change in the management structure, but, ladies and gentlemen, the core part of a reform of the ÖBF can only be a breakdown from the federal budget and a subsequent withdrawal of the state from the forestry sector. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Call:The Minister doesn't listen at all]] Molterer's gonna listen. [[Abg. Wabl: What do we do with the forests, colleague Firlinger?]] I will give you a lot of answers, my colleague, and we will discuss this in detail. [[Abg. Wabl: An answer is enough! That would help me a little!]] There are many answers, but everyone is clear, Mr. Wabl. There are many arguments that we can make available to you, Mr Wabl. Ladies and gentlemen! This orderly withdrawal from the forestry sector also means a privatisation in the clear text, at least a majority privatisation in a longer-term period, which I would also like to say; in the short term this is certainly not to be achieved – over a period of 15 to 25 years. You can certainly discuss this and you can also discuss it, ladies and gentlemen, how the details look. We Liberals have therefore allowed us to give the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry a strong impetus in this direction. I hope that this motion for a resolution, which we have tabled by Liberals, will be dealt with soon and will not be shubled, Minister of State. I hope you will not wait until the Federal Government is finally ready to reach agreement, but the request will be dealt with in an appropriate manner in this committee. I don't want you with these details yet... [[Abg. Wabl: Please, this little detail with the protected forests!]] Yes, Mr President, there is one more committee. [[Abg. Wabl: He comforts me on the committee! – This is populism!]] Mr Wabl! The Austrian Federal Forests are not just protected forests. The percentage of protected forest – in order to answer a question in advance – is 27 percent of the total state forest ownership. But there is enough left to lead to an orderly privatisation. It's left enough. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Who pays this? - The state today!]] Mr Wabl, that is enough for the first time. In committee, we can discuss it for many days; I am looking forward to the discussions with you on this. Ladies and gentlemen! What are we going to do with this motion for a resolution? I would like to mention briefly some of the points that are appropriate to enable this orderly withdrawal of the State. We want to make it possible, before it comes to that, to simplify the administration and to create efficient management of forestry holdings; this is not, or is not, sufficiently the case at present. Secondly, we also want to ensure a sustainable and fruitful management of the Federal Forest's assets until the end of the day. A third point: We want to ensure that the substance is improved by means of arrondment and rehabilitation measures. This is also very half-hearted. Although the Austrian Federal Forests can sell, they can also buy, but each individual property transaction is subject to the National Council. Thus, a properly managed company certainly cannot work. Therefore, there is also a need for reform in this respect. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also – and this is very important – are concerned with the introduction of areas of the current Austrian Federal Forest into national parks already existing and to be built in the future. One important question that needs to be resolved, but it is not solved by the fact that we are pushing this far away. One last point which seems to me to be very important and which is to be initiated by this motion for a resolution is finally the liberation of the Federal Government from financial obligations, such as liability for possible losses of the Austrian Federal Forest. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there are very varied successes here. Whenever the prices of wood are quite well... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: (in alluding to the Minister Mag. Climate, Mag. Molterer and Hums, standing behind the government bank, are deeply in conversation) Your speech is successful, the budget negotiations are going on already!]] The budgetary negotiations continue, as you can see, intensively, and I also assume that at the same time, the Structural Adjustment Act may also undergo a first correction. I'm glad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In conclusion: These five key points, mentioned by me, must be discussed in an objective and proper manner, with the participation of all political parties. I am sure that all five parties will be able to express their views accordingly, and I am looking forward to the work done in committee and then in plenary. We Liberals will present our proposals and demands with the necessary emphasis, with the necessary emphasis on content, and we hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will face up to this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40323	Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40344	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After two weeks of intensive debates on the Structural Adjustment Act 1996 and on the 1996 and 1997 budgets, as well as intensive previous Committee work, we are still dealing with other parts of the Federal Financial Laws 1996 and 1997. Of course, both the government and the opposition have the question to ask themselves: Are these budgets, is this policy suitable to deal with the tasks of the future? . I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this reform package is a guarantee of Austria's position as one of the most economically stable countries in the world. Austria is an industrialized country which can be found in the international ranking, depending on the classification or view of the criteria, between fourth and eighth place. And if there is a monetary union at all – and I am optimistic that it will come – Austria will be one of the few countries from the beginning – because of this reform package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are – and we can be proud of it – what the social benefits are going on, the world's peak, and many of us are envied by the Austrian social partnership. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister for Finance! He is not here at the moment, but it is a coincidence that the Federal Minister for Social Affairs is now sitting on the government bank. I was of the opinion that this reform package, which secures this budget and hence also the future of Austria, is being carried together. However, I note that in a booklet of the "Society Wagen" - the pressure takes place with the kind support of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as the "Moving Red Vienna", ladies and gentlemen! – can be read in such a way. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What? And from the Green Education workshop!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] That's where I read, Federal Minister for Social Affairs: A great deal could be done with political intelligence for citizens without a priori...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40410	Excuse me, Mr Auer. On business treatment, Mr Dr. Khol. - Please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40440	Mr President. I ask that the practice be applied evenly, that, when a speaker addresses a minister, the Minister should not talk to a Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40464	I thank you for this suggestion. I would also like to live up to this wish. We have noted on several occasions yesterday that this provision of information or whatever is to be kept as close as possible on the government bank. – I ask all the interlocutors to observe this. I think there are enough possibilities to hold such talks in other areas of the House. I would like to thank you once again for this suggestion. I ask the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40491	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for this support which you are now giving me at the suggestion of Dr. Khol, the clubman. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs! In this booklet, which is supported by your ministry, namely the "Moving Red Vienna", I read on page 13: A great deal could be done with political intelligence for citizens without having to resort to the primitive measure of disposing. Those who are now asked to pay for the checkout are paying for political failure, for lack of perspective, for shortness of breath of policy. - Quote. So I have to ask the question, which is what it is supposed to mean, that your ministry is supporting something that is so to speak, contrary to the views of the Federal Ministry of Finance. This should be explained urgently, ladies and gentlemen. In this booklet there is another remarkable sentence, and I quote: There is a tendency for savings in the population. Saving in the positive sense has to do with efficiency. It's possible to save without taking away anything. The temporary savings project does not alter the machinery of inefficient use of public resources, miscontrols and waste. - Quote. Mr Federal Minister, I would urgently ask you to take care of a bit of order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to deal specifically with another question today, namely the question of rural areas. I have here a remarkable article by Josef Ertl in the "Standard" of yesterday, with the title: "The country is ruining." The Federal Ministry of Justice wants to save and to lock up district courts. The Minister of the Interior also wants to save and block Gendarmerieposten. The ÖBB do not want or can no longer afford the deficits of the secondary lanes and also want to save. [[Abg. Aumayr: And the ÖVP locks the farms!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since everyone wants to save, the FPÖler also want to save: They want to lock up the county headquarters in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Aumayr: The ÖVP saves the farmers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, from the point of view of individuals, the respective measure may have quite a reasonable reason. To sum up, however, all these measures mean dramatic cuts in small and medium-sized communities, so cuts in rural areas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All of this has nothing more to do with savings, but it is the destruction of growing structures, that is, the ordered depopulation of rural areas, and I am very determined to do so, because there is more going to be lost, even more so than otherwise can be achieved by pooling or centralization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, and we should not close our eyes to it, there must always be a structural change, but structures can also be influenced: either positive or negative. But we must ensure that positive structures are created. It cannot be so, ladies and gentlemen, that the country, the rural area, the village, the small and financially weak communities will be starved out. I would like to thank Mr Müller of the SPÖ for having found some critical words regarding the preference of our federal capital. Where, then, is the solidarity, the compensation, which is always called out loud? Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is necessary for the cities, for the large centres, to have additional funds for transport from the financial compensation. Of course, it is necessary for the city of Vienna to claim additional funding from the Federal Financial Balance for the construction of the metro. Of course, from the point of view of the large cities, it is obvious that the per capita weight in the financial compensation is still unfair. Ladies and gentlemen! Shameless recruits are also recruited in censuses Municipal citizens from small and financially weak communities. Today, it is obvious that in every larger city there are to be paid for parking per hour about 15 s. But it is not natural, ladies and gentlemen, that the forests should also be opened, that the landowner is no longer asked. I'm just saying, "Mountain biking." Large companies want and need to link to large and international traffic routes so that large cities can then provide the lucrative channel tax revenue. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if water protection, nature conservation, landscape and recreation are necessary, rural areas are needed. But all of this is to be made available free of charge – and woe if a federal country thinks about a "water schilling" or decides something similar. Ladies and gentlemen! If a nature conservation charge is introduced, then there is a noise in the leaf forest, then, ladies and gentlemen, the call is insurmountable. – I’m calling for the introduction of a “water schilling”, ladies and gentlemen, and I’m also honouring the introduction of a nature conservation tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to make it quite clear that 50 per cent of these funds are made available to the local authorities concerned, in order to compensate for the disadvantages that every parish citizen in these regions has to face, because in such communities where water protection and protected areas are set up, there is no farm settlement, there is no agriculture in the traditional sense, because management is only possible with restrictions. Every small homeowner must take on additional water rights negotiations and costs if he only wants to make the slightest change in his business, the slightest change in his own home, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore necessary to make these charges available to the most disadvantaged communities, to the citizens of the disadvantaged communities. I have never heard that a large city is paying revenue from municipal or commercial or wage-pay taxes to the country. Here Will stands back to the country, where he came from. [[The speaker holds a brochure in his hands]] – This will have to be supported in the future. But it is necessary that small communities also finance their infrastructure so that they can fulfil their tasks. – If you don’t take all of this into account, you’ll get to the dormitory – with all the negative consequences associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen! We should all remember: Without land, there will be no city either!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40592	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To the brochure from which I have just been quoted, I can say: I do not know them in detail, I have just received them, but I would like to point out in principle that, of course, as in other departments, contributions are also made in the Social Ministry for Discussions in Directory-specific Problems. That's no speciality. But I also insist that opinions should not be suppressed. This is the same as in the press promotion: There is no such thing as trying to maintain one's own opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wouldn't think that was right. I have not read this brochure, so I cannot deal with its contents now. But on the principle of suppressing all that means criticism, I cannot determine from my concept of democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40682	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40703	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very informative to analyse the brochure that has just been put to the discussion by Mr Auer: In fact, it counters what the Federal Minister said at the beginning of this debate. There a finance minister sits on the government bank and is confronted with the fact that his own... [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein talks to Federal Minister Hums.]] I would ask, Mr Feurstein, that you give the Minister of Social Affairs the opportunity to listen. The Minister of Social Affairs supports a brochure – it is also supported by the "Motive Red Vienna" and by the Green Education Workshop; in other words, a beautiful "Ampel Coalition" – in which his own government is criticized. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is not a traffic light!]] In fact, Mr Federal Minister for Finance, it says: "These tasks cannot solve a rehabilitation package", namely economic rehabilitation. "This package continues to grow strongly, but it takes no perspective. It does not create future-related potentials for development. The cuts are particularly painful where they would have been urgently avoided. A concept of speeding up structural reforms, or even an obligation to do so, is not available." [[Abg. Ollinger: I already quoted that! You weren't here!]] In other words, Mr Sozialminister is promoting a brochure which says that this government policy is going in the completely wrong direction: not a structural concept, one is about where the weakest are affected. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you already have to finance your own criticism, if you support such a thing, then you really have a bad conscience in these things! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] But I mean something else, and that's why I spoke. [[Abg. Oils: They weren't there! That has already been discussed!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr Oellinger! You as one of the co-editors of state-funded activities are naturally put into nervousness. But I would like to give you another joy today: Your special protector, the Minister of the Interior, once again thought about us with a special kindness. You know that in the last few days we have held a heated debate on the issue of the consequences of an extrajudicial judgment in connection with a criminal organisation. We... [[President Dr. Neisser, Member of the Liberals, points out that by talking to Abg. Dr. Kostelka is being prevented from listening.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, if this applies to everyone, I would like to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40796	Deputies, apologise! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out once again: There is, of course, no explicit prohibition that a Member should speak with a minister sitting on the government bank. That's what I want to hold here. I also do not want to completely prohibit this practice. Only: If the speaker at the speaker’s desk feels that this is rude, then it must be taken into account. I would ask because this issue has been raised so many times that we intend to stop talking to the government bank for the rest of today's debate as far as possible – I do not want to say: to avoid the government bank. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40826	Thank you, Mr President. I'll continue. – The Federal Minister for the Interior has come into discussion and headlines because, contrary to an above-mentioned judgment, he still permits the Kurdish liberation organisation PKK to stop with its office in Austria, a criminal organisation on whose account fire attacks in Austria are on the agenda and in which protective pressure is on the agenda. As a result, the officials of the Minister presented the question to him in an act: What should we do, because if we did not do anything after this judgment of the Supreme Court, we would negotiate the accusation of inactivity or abuse of office, because, if a criminal organisation is not fought, we would not be guilty on our own, of not providing for law and order and for compliance with the legal conditions in that country? We have discussed this, and this has led to the fact that Mr One, because he has not taken account of the above-mentioned judgment, has said: No, we do not take care of the judgment of the Supreme Court, we observe the scene until what happens again, then we only decide!, so this has led to the prosecution against Mr. Minister One too. - So far, so bad. Today Minister gave To a press conference in Linz, which is reported in the "APA": "The circumstance," says Minister One – literally – "is that a political debate on Bassena-Niveau is brought about by running as a prosecutor, qualified by himself and has not much to do with matters and their decisions." [[Abg. May. Stadler: Awesome! The rule of law is the "Bassena"!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in particular you from the Austrian People's Party, you must note that your own colleague of government will allow you to address the questions of the security of Austria at "Bassena-Niveau" that a minister who is committed to the Constitution will enforce Parliament's attempt to follow extrajudicial decisions in a government, so that he says: You're discussing this at Bassena level, I'm not interested. I, Mr One, have my own legislation! This cannot be accepted by Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is happening here is a brutal disregard for all the principles of the rule of law in the last few days as a result of the statements made by this Minister. This minister acts like an elephant in the porcelain shop, trampling around, what are constitutional principles, what is law, what is a judge's decision, things that are to be respected by everyone who has some kind of rule of law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It goes on even further, that is only the first part of the Minister's statement. He then said – literally: "For the question of whether we continue to do the same as before in the case of criminal organisation is a political and not something" – and now it comes! – "What a judge has to decide" – added the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible! A blow to the face of the rule of law!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am now also asking you as a Social Democrats: Are you of the opinion that it is really all right for a minister who, as a guardian of law and order in the security resort, must be particularly lawful to say: What makes me an obsessive decision? That's not one thing that judges have to decide! I'm not taking care of it! I don't feel tied! This is a refusal to recognize the rule of law! A minister who refuses to recognise the principles of the rule of law has lost nothing on the government bank of a democratic government! That can't be tolerated! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's the true background! Minister One gives instructions so that people who are illegal in Austria can stay in our country – against the law! He gives instructions that people who have in truth lost nothing in this country can come in against the law! He wants to give instructions to ensure that the laws of foreigners are implemented in his sense and not in the way we have decided in Parliament. Instructions!, self-glority of a minister!, superiority!, refusal of the rule of law and disregard of democratic principles!: That is what we are no longer taking note of here in this Parliament. If you allow this to happen, then this is true, for which a Member has been told: that this House is very slowly made up only of puppets, which one can condone. Here the rule of law is trampled with feet because the self-glorification of the ministers leads them to say: What do we take care of the laws? What do we take care of the content of the legislator! What do we take care of the decision of a Court of Justice? We are self-evident ministers, and we are making our own policy! It is not yet so far that it is possible for this government to disregard the Constitution, nor is there a Parliament that condemns it, and we will still try to mobilise the critical Members of the other parties, especially those in the government parties, but to think about what has happened here. Mr Cap no longer needs to stand out and polemise against the liberals. If someone disregards the Constitution, then it is social democracy, which holds such a minister in office, who can take part in the rule of law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore request the establishment of an investigation committee today and we will also call for a name-named vote on the matter to be taken in order to document the individual Members' views on the proceedings. [[Abg. Wabl: This has already happened! You weren't here!]] We also expect the other parties to make them clear – in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – that such a minister is not viable for you. [[Abg. Wabl: From the secret coalition partner!]] If you express your confidence to him again, then you will no longer have to criticise his office in public, because then you agree that someone does exactly the opposite of what Mr Khol called for here a few days ago, when he said there was something like a rule of law. [[Complaints with the liberals]] There is also such a thing as respect for extrajudicial decisions. There is also an official obligation of a minister to act in accordance with the above-mentioned decisions in order not to become criminal. But he just doesn't! He is still directing us from the outside that we are, in any case, only a meeting of Deppen, which is discussing an important question of the state at "Bassena-Niveau". Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Such a minister, held by you in office, makes you an excuse in a process in which security, democracy and the rule of law are undermined by such subjects!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40939	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e40960	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The clubman of the Freedom Party has just tried, of his own power, to change the agenda. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No! Inside is on the agenda! Inside is the trial!]] The debate on the Committee of Inquiry is based on my knowledge of the budget debate, and I therefore believe that it would be useful... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you turn to the red one? ...]] Mr. Stadler! I'm sorry to have to tell me about you I'd be talking stupid. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Tell me that's on the agenda.]] You can call here as you want, but you don't blame me. That corresponds to your attitude, but not to that of mine, Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the ÖVP and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Inside is on the agenda! Let your chairman inform you, who is otherwise so skilled!]] We are still on the agenda item on the budget, and we have enough opportunity and time to talk about setting up an investigation committee. I shall now turn to the budget question. We understand that after eight days of intensive discussions, Mr Stadler is somewhat overburdened and nervous. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not overburdened! You're completely uninformed! Let your chairman inform you!]] But yet we should consider how difficult it is to... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Today, internals is on the agenda if you have not noticed it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure he'll stop once. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you talk more sensiblely!]] I suggest we just let him talk until he's done.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41087	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now continuing normally in the debate. I call Mr Magistrate. Peter! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41115	I have no time to thank God, because we still have quite a lot of speaking time. But Stadler likes to talk, let's talk to him. [[Abg. May. Stadler: At least I'm talking about something happening!]] Wonderful! In the course of this debate, the Minister of Finance has let us know what a difficult situation our country is in, and it is important for me to point out, at the end of the budget debate, who bears responsibility for this difficult situation in which our Republic, our community, is located. The Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats, who have been in the government since 1986 and therefore bear the responsibility for our country, are responsible, in addition to the successes they have undoubtedly achieved, for the fact that our state is unfortunately overdebted today and that our indispensable social network has been financially extended. Massaging resources in the public sector detracts the private sector. The gap between employees in the competitive economy and those in the public service is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen! Not even the question of the Party political pro-porces has been solved over the last ten years. Austria is still governed by the division: here red, there black; here black, there red. In addition, the equity weakness of the Austrian economy comes, and only 6 percent of the people in our country are self-employed. The danger of the two-thirds company is threatened. We must therefore take, and I quote climate, specific measures to consolidate the state budget and achieve economic and monetary union. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! You have chosen your way, and you will decide your way with your votes. I think the way you want to achieve this goal is worrying. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They have de facto de facto – not de jure – virtually disabled Parliament and degraded it into a voting machine. Professor Novotny believes that the retroactive provisions in the constitutional order would not be elegant but efficient. In this context, I quote the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court, who comments on this fundamental question and says – beginning of the quote – that: "At present, there is clearly a danger that the process of lawmaking will be regarded as an empty ritual. This is also dangerous for democracy. If a constitution expressly states that the law is based on the people and that both representatives of the people and the people themselves obviously no longer know who is served by the legislation, there is a critical situation." Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it efficient what you are doing, but I think it is going on on the brink of the Constitution. We still had to take note of the last amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets' chairman today and we must regret that the opportunity for real reforms has not been used because of the time pressure you have brought yourself, you, the coalition parties – since August 1995 you negotiate. An emergency program has been launched. You will obtain the money you need to achieve our common objective of economic and monetary union, but in a worrying way that will have an impact on investment and employment and unfortunately will result in insolvency. We Liberals will therefore reject the 1996/97 budgets. But, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, we continue to offer you our cooperation to achieve the common objectives for our country: the consolidation of the state budget and the accession to economic and monetary union. I ask you to understand: We are at the breaking line of our country's development. Old answers, old positions no longer meet new challenges. It is no longer a place for house mastering mentalities of interests. For me, that will not be enough in the future. That's definitely obsolete. The chance is not in Blablabla, Mr. Stadler. It is unfortunate that if you do not understand things, you simply scream in between. That's obviously your way. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have a profile requirement over Haselsteiner! The Hazelsteiner will round you the rank at Schmidt!]] Okay, I've got a prophylaxis needs. Agreed. It's amazing: He speaks and talks and doesn't know what. "Because you don't know what you're doing!" [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is your problem!]] In keeping with the social network and maintaining the culture of conversation, that is to say, what I understand as a social partners, we should work together. I would like to stress clearly, ladies and gentlemen: I regret that during this debate during these eight days I have noticed tensions between the government groups, which partly indicate hostility rather than partnership. I do not think that we can really afford party political disputes in today's economic and economic situation. The population has chosen you with two-thirds majority. You have plenty – much too extensive! – made use of this two-thirds majority. But what our country needs in the next two or three years is stability as a basis for the implementation of incisive reforms, the focus on international competition for economic success and the maintenance of employment levels. Ladies and gentlemen! We must ensure international trust through stability. Despite all the reciprocity of political positions and views and even though we do not agree with your approach you have practiced here in recent weeks and months, we offer liberals as constructive opposition cooperation to solve the common problems of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41194	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41215	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger's motion for a resolution and Mr Barmüller's motion for a resolution call for clarification on the part of the Greens. I already know that the problem of water tax, which was decided in Styria, in the Styrian Government and then in the Landtag, arouses the general interest and that there is a heated discussion about it, because there are naturally conflicts in the distribution of funds. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I think it is justified that one of the most important treasures we have makes it clear that this treasure is valuable. We live in a system where values are usually measured with money. If then a state government or a legislative body is convinced that these values should be paid in money and that it should be considered whether or not a steering effect arises, then I think it is legitimate and correct. Each federal state is trying to make good use of location advantages, treasures, resources that it has to market well and also profitably for the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider the criticism of Mr Barmüller and his colleagues in the political groups to be right there – and here we were of an opinion in the Styrian country day – where exceptions are being tried to remove important areas in the economy, in industry. That's where the principle of equality is violated. Mr Barmüller! You're not quite right if you think that here are federal interests... I do not know what exactly you meant, probably that there are great differences in financial compensation and that there is a new conflict, as the Federal Chancellor has meant in recent days. I think it is wrong that in Styria intensive agriculture is being removed from the industrial spheres in Styria, but I think it is right that the Styrian market is of course using these revenue for the ecologicalization of the Styrian sector and, of course, for the ecologicalization of agriculture and also for the ecologicalization of the economy. I believe that this brings benefits to the Styrian industry and to Styrian agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller! We did not agree to this law in Graz, but we consider the fundamental intention to be correct. Another aspect is of course that the Steirers already have this tax a little longer in the drawer. Only: Before the country election, they did not have the courage to enforce it in the state government. Before the country election, they held this for opportunistic reasons. Now, after the country election, they come out with this tax. In Vienna it is exactly the same: Mr Häupl and his government members have long had a draft tax in the drawer. [[Abg. Brix: How do you know?]] Only: The chief knows that the municipal council elections are just ahead of the door, because of course one does not want to joke with his electorate. – This is opportunism in pure culture, that has nothing to do with federalism, that has nothing to do with federal interests, and that has nothing to do with the principle of equality, but that is quite ordinary political opportunism. Whether the steering effects, Mr Barmüller, are actually happening, is another question. I am right – and that is why we did not agree to this request in Graz – that it has been very dubious. But in principle we hold fast, and we think it is right that a raw material is also paid. Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore not agree to this motion for a resolution, but we will ensure and continue to ensure that the Styrian government and the Styrian countryside are, in the majority of cases, a correct nature conservation tax, which actually has steering effects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller! I know that you are in principle opposed to regulatory measures, in this respect you are a little burdened here. A few words on Mr Firlinger's comments: I've already feared that he'll make blind-wound actionism again and with his notes he'll come to the speaker's desk, fold jet hunters to give the demands of the Moser repressive. Fortunately, he has not done so; he has made a very serious request for reform of the Austrian Federal Forest. Mr Firlinger! There's only one problem: You should discuss offensively in one of the most important issues relating to the Federal Forests. The question arises when one privatizes them, what happens to those large parts from which there is no profit, but where – quite the contrary – great losses have been written for decades. It is the whole complex of the forests, the biotopes, the forests from which we do not want to profit. I have a bit of the impression that, as was partly tried in the national lights, the Koppeller can sing a song of it: Those companies that are the gold pieces that write profits will be privatized, while those who write losses will continue to be socialized, and for which the state will continue to fully inspect. Mr Firlinger! I do not think that you understand this under your liberal concept, but I do not find an approach to these heavy chunks in the Federal Forests. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is a motion for a resolution and not an initiative!]] There are many proposals. I believe that the ÖVP provides a model for the foundation in this regard, and the SPÖ has proposed an AG model. We should discuss this. The approach is, in principle, right, but you of the Liberals should not go past this question, just as Mr Moser did in financing the successor to the Draken. You shouldn't do that, Mr. Firlinger. I have read the most important points carefully: There is nothing about the protection forest, and there is nothing about the deficit-making areas of the Federal Forest, what should happen to it. Of course there will be buyers! There are already the flicks and others waiting to finally buy the Austrian forest so that they can expand their hunting areas. Of course, farmers are waiting, for which it would be a great advantage. Of course, one can talk about it, that makes sense, that is not a question at all. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But I think you do not want to speak!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to this brochure, which Mrs Auer has massively criticized from the "F" movement here. [[Call the ÖVP:Hey! Hey!]] Excuse me: from the ÖVP. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We do not say: The Wabl of the Communists!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here Auer comes to the speaker's desk, quoting passages from this brochure, which – admittedly – represent an open criticism of social policy in Austria. Incredible! There is a smooth state position in Austria – imagine that! – a printing work financed with massive criticism of government policy! That's incredible! Lord Auer has also been so excited about press promotion here regularly, because the newspapers are always so shamefully pulling this government through the dirt: The "Kronen-Zeitung", the "Kurier", the "Standard", the "Profile", these incredible newspapers! He can also be "put to the head and still rubbed" as Mr. Khol said. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! They're incompetent expressions!]] He insults the Lord Hums because a... – That was a gesture of the Lord Khol and the accompanying sentence he said; I just quoted. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's inflatable!]] If I quote you, it'll get even more inconvenient. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Khol obviously carried out a very interesting movement in his concept of democracy. I didn't know exactly where, but in today's "standard" there was a clue to me, and that's remarkable: Andreas Khol places a movement at the "F" towards "Constitutional Arch". – I asked myself: What happened? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] What's going on? How does this matter look? According to today's statement, in which Khol accused the Minister of Social Affairs: "It will make you on your head – and then it will be rubbed!"Because a critical government paper is being financed here, I knew what step Khol is taking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] After all, he's confused a little: He took a few steps out of the "Constitutional Arch" with his concept of democracy and visually deceived himself: He believed the FPÖ was moving towards him. The mistake was: He has stepped out of the democratic constitution, while he believes that the FPÖ is moving towards him. The FPÖ has taken two steps back, three steps ahead, but from the "Constitutional Arch", Mr. Khol. That's your problem you have. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues Auer von der "F" – von der ÖVP, Sorry!, I promise again and again... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is true that my sensual perception often has more effect on my language than what comes out of his mouth or what is in his party book. This is a bit of a problem I have with Mr Auer. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not your only problem!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then I thought: What is all about the "Constitutional Arch" to which Mr. Haider and his party are supposed to approach? I've seen the sample here today: There's an opposition leader going to the speaker's desk and... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Criticize a minister!]] That he criticizes the Minister is correct. I think you can't criticize the ministers enough, they need it every day. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] This opposition leader claims, in connection with the PKK, that the Minister not only ignores a recognition of the Supreme Court, but even violates laws. – The fact that he claims it is an interesting thing. . I hope that the Socialists will still defend their own ministers, only on one, please, I would like to point out to you from the ÖVP like Kiss and others and you from the FPÖ that you think the Minister for Internal Security should decide which means are appropriate, Mr Haider: There is no doubt that in many European countries the PKK acts terroristally, seeks violent conflicts and violates laws. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's a judgment!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: protection press!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Bomb attacks!]] There is no doubt that this knowledge is the same as it is. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But already proven in Austria!]] – Well, then, the Austrian authorities are to take action to combat money extortion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, but he doesn't want to!]] Mr Haider! There is a very fine difference here, and that is very difficult for your ear and for your colleague Stadler to hear out. One can clearly see that if a bank has been robbed with hostages that is a breach of law in a bank. No question at all! But it is a difference whether you shoot in immediately, spray tear gas and kindle a fire – or whether you try to resolve this conflict differently. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for deciding what funds are considered appropriate! It was not a question of legalizing violence! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: These were your friends from the Revolutionsbrauhof! These were your friends from the Kirchweger House!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has not been a question of legalizing terrorism – for then the one of the greatest friends of the Freedom Party – but it has been a question of the Interior Minister responsible for security in that country. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's our constituency helper!]] Only if you can deceive voters, maybe. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for applying the appropriate funds. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Does the rule of law now apply or does it not apply?]] – One can enforce the rule of law as you wish: with the fist and with violence and more prisons, but one can also enforce the rule of law by trying to talk to resolve conflicts and to dry out violence. – This is how you can enforce the rule of law and security! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] That's the ideological difference! Mrs. Partik-Pablé! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are a dreamer!]] You talked about the addiction problem earlier. – I think this is a tragedy, including in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] The criminals who do their business here must be persecuted, that's right, but why don't you draw attention to the need to wait for months, even years, for them to be treated in a hospital? – Since measures would help to elucidate this problem! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] But, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're calling for more police, you're calling for more, you're getting tougher. This is necessary when violence is escalating, but please, please, in a democracy we have to try everything to descale in order to mediate to build up communication – even with groups that are at risk. But this is obviously a way you cannot understand from the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! We will still be able to discuss this in the context of the "F" request to set up an investigation committee, and we will then discuss your role in detail, Mr Stadler, whether you are a desperado or not. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We always want to discuss with the Gs, but that requires better G-Beiträge!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41580	Mr Wabl! Please, we still want to bring the debate on stage in a somewhat acceptable way today! Please do not use such expressions!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41601	Mr President. I asked a question. Desperado is one who does not comply with the laws: I asked if he was a desperado. There are still questions to be asked, Mr President. All right! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We will have to discuss whether or not Mag. Stadler is an error in a democratic organization or whether Mr. Federal Minister violates a law. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm asking you if you're a mess!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] A desperado, a desperate person, a lost person – but you are an error in the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41645	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41666	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For a number of times, Mr. Dr. Haider found it necessary to deal with Mr. One and his office just a few minutes ago, and in this context he has accused that Mr. Bundesminister One had trampled on the rule of law and, in addition, by means of an interlocutory call, assumed that the Federal Minister did not intend in any way to have the PKK persecuted by the police and the Gendarmerie. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Will you still be allowed!]] Dear Dr. Haider! First of all: I should like to tell you, as a lawyer, what the rule of law means, with the reluctance to do and with the tone to be spoken in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what the right one is talking about! You've been mowing on the pult with the fist, Mr. Klubobmann!]] The rule of law means the guarantee of a law-compliant decision and the provision of a proper legal protection procedure. All of this is given sufficiently, internationally exemplary, especially in the Ministry of the Interior. If you raise an accusation in this context, then this is a monsterity that has only one goal: a differentiation policy without any evidence. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Haider]] You don't want to give evidence at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Dear Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read what he said!]] They say that there is an OGH judgment which states that the PKK is a terrorist organisation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Criminal Organization!]] I don't want to bother you at all, a multi-faceted understanding of the OGH that you may have already had in your hands to really analyze – the time you probably don't take – but take "the press" from yesterday at hand. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Criminal terrorists!]] On page 6 you can read an interview with the unsuspecting president of the OGH. I quote: In conversation with the "Presse" OGH President Herbert Steininger said he would be careful to read something out of the judgment in general. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a criminal organization! That's in judgment!]] That's not enough. The court decision affected a single criminal case and the persons involved, says Steininger. He doubted that it could draw general conclusions on the structure of the PKK, that it was not for the OGH to make general statements in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But the judgment says something else!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In the judgment it is however!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, Dr. Haider did not claim more and no less than that the OGH had expressly referred to the PKK as a criminal organisation; the President of the OGH said exactly the opposite. That's your truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider and Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Further: You say in your speech, but also in interlocutory calls, Mr. Bundesminister One of his authorities would prevent the executive from taking action against the PKK in this context. You have repeatedly quoted a press release by Federal Minister One. At the very beginning there is the sentence: We have a clear attitude in the executive: We observe the activities of foreign political groups, and where we have the impression that they are leaving the legal framework, we are taking action. – Here too, Dr. Haider: Their poetry and the truth are two things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In connection with your allegations, they require the establishment of an investigation committee. That's your right to oppose, but I'm telling you: The accusation that the rule of law should be stepped up is much higher for you if you anticipate the outcome of a court procedure and the outcome of an investigation committee before it can still be voted on. You are basically saying things here in this house that in no way – not even of you! – can be proved. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What's going on?]] That's infamiation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Dr. Haider! They demonstrate by such processes that there is good reason why the Austrians want to prevent them from knowing that you and your husbands are ever represented in the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not reject you more and no less than that you have a very cynical approach to the truth and to the fundamental values of this state. Do not imagine what would happen if someone like you with this attitude had to have a device such as the Ministry of the Interior! We will be able to prevent social democrats in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The actions you are setting – including in this House – are a negation of the basic values that you are constantly leading to the lips, namely the fundamental values of the state of the art, the rule of law and democracy. Don't wonder about the exclusion you're experiencing. You justify it, for example, now, here and today by your course of action.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41868	Ladies and gentlemen! I can't quite understand the reason for your hustle and bustle, but please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Reichhold applauded Kostelka!]] We are continuing the debate. Member of Parliament Dr. Haider has reported an actual correction. – Mr Dr. Haider, you have the floor. I would ask you to start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41903	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka has accused me of wrongfully calling the PKK a terrorist and criminal organization. – The fact is that in my already mentioned closing act, 30. It is said that the Ministry itself has found this. Here is literally – I quote –: It is clear that the ERNK in Austria is neither an association nor a party. However, reference must be made to the fact that, in the view of the Supreme Court, this organisation is a criminal association according to § 278a of the Criminal Code. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Here you go, Mr Kostelka!]] I would also like to quote: The following: The above-mentioned Supreme Court decision does not allow the ERNK Office to remain unobserved in its view. According to § 84 of the Criminal Procedures Regulations, the security authorities in this case are obliged to investigate and to notify. In order not to suspend public accusations, it would be intended to initiate investigations against the official representatives of that office because of the suspicion of membership of a criminal association. However, with regard to any attacks in the near future, the accusation of inactivity or abuse of office in the media could also be voiced in the event of non-action. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's all wrong!]] That's what the Ministry itself writes. I would ask you to note that your own minister has found this act to be good, and I would ask you not to accuse me of quoting what the Supreme Court has said and what the officials of the Minister have said. To one of them they have taught him and asked him, in the sense of an extrajudicial decision...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41942	Dr. Haider! That is no longer the subject of a correction. You've already corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41958	... at last proceed and draw the corresponding consequences as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e41988	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42009	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks only two sentences on the Bassena level of Dr. Haider, that's all it deserves. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The One, not the Haider!]] I'll tell you: Who in the last days in this House has followed this inflamed terrorism debate, who has seen and heard, as is constantly being worked out here by Dr. Haider and Mr. Stadler here with untruths, is constantly being presented, as is currently shown here, that it is not at all about the matter at all, but only about the political damage of a person who has seen, as German conditions of violence are to be spoken here, ladies and gentlemen, who must conclude that the expression "Bassena-Niveau" for these methods is an extremely charming harmonization. [[Calls of the Abg. May. Stadler and Dr. Krüger]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the second point: Whoever concludes his speech with the expression "the subjects on the government bank", he uses a violent language and acts contemptuously. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Poison syringes!]] – Both must be rejected. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is not about the basic, vital problems in this country, but about party policy alone. I would therefore like to take the step forward. Today is an important day from a number of points of view. There is a substantial budget debate, but at the same time we are holding a commemorative day, a commemorative day, which – and on it I am still coming – has a lot to do with this budget debate: the commemorative 10 years of Chernobyl. A commemoration of the most devastating disaster in the environment, which has claimed over 100,000 victims who have demanded incredible human suffering, a commemorative day which has also shown us how the impotent unbearable risks of industry, in this case the nuclear industry, are also happening financially. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The calculations of the Ministry of Health itself say that the follow-up costs of Chernobyl to this day – and these follow-up costs continue on a daily basis – are no less than 1 billion schilling, despite this huge distance to northern Ukraine. This concerns only the consequences of the there GAU for Austria. I have therefore spoken in order to get clarification from the Minister for Finance. We have already discussed in this House yesterday that ten years after this reactor disaster, Austrian capital participation through the East Bank, EBRD, new reactors, new nuclear power plants in Ukraine is now to be built up or finished. These are the reactors Khmelinsky and Rovno. There is a recommendation from the G7, the EBRD and thus also Austria – Austria is involved in the EBRD – may this funding be carried out in an order of 10 billion schilling. I believe that it is necessary that the Minister of Finance should do so at this 10th anniversary. Here, Chernobyl's commemorative day clearly and clearly states what the government's position is about, and whether it is actually possible that, after Chernobyl, Austrian capital will return to new high-risk reactors in Ukraine – or whether it would not be more useful for Austria to apply for credit from the EBRD within this eastern reconstruction bank, but for non-nuclear energy projects: in the hydropower sector, in the alternative energy sector, in the field of energy saving. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I expect a clarification, clarification, a clarification of the Austrian position in this regard today. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have calculated the closing of the twelve most dangerous reactors in Eastern Europe, the twelve largest risks, the twelve nuclear time bombs in Eastern Europe would cost about 200 billion schilling. This is a seemingly enormous sum, but if you compare it with other budget approaches, it would be quite financial if there were indeed international efforts in this direction. This sum accounts for about 2% of NATO's budget for a single year. So with only 2% of a single NATO budget, the twelve most dangerous scrap reactors in Eastern Europe could be closed and replaced environmentally friendly. – This would be a security offensive, which would be a security vision to which Austria could contribute a lot. In this context, I expect to see Austrian positions, which have been substantially strengthened in the future, a new offensive of the Austrian government policy, because the Federal Government has now fallen into a fixed anti-atomic deep sleep after many announcements and promises on this issue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the National Council a year ago, we adopted very excellent offensive orders to the Federal Government regarding their anti-atomic policy, orders to transform Euratom, at least to request the task of taking the nuclear issue on the agenda of the EU Government Conference, to massively increase applications and orders to the Federal Government, such as the eco-funding funds, so that aid concepts can actually be drawn up to close orders to the Federal Government, coalitions with other nuclear-free states, et cetera. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of these unilateral requests in this House, unanimously adopted by all five parties, no one after a year has been implemented to this day. Not one! And the Foreign Minister even tells us: As the legislative period during which these contracts were decided last year has expired, these orders were, whether they were decisions of the House, null and void, and the Federal Government no longer had to comply with these decisions. There is one last point that needs to be discussed here, for which we will not reach a decision today, but for which there has been a first resolution yesterday in the Upper Austrian Landtag, namely whether the Austrian Federal Government, in the context of the accession negotiations of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, must also address this issue of nuclear power plants, the threat of Europe by scrap tractors in a very massive and clearly defined way. It is a question of whether, as the EU has done with Austria in relation to the transit treaty, there should be some sort of nuclear agreement to be concluded in the context of these accession negotiations, in which concrete exit scenarios, concrete timetables, concrete stages and concrete financing plans, such as how to help these two neighbouring countries get out, are defined and thereby fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also expect the Minister for Finance to make a clear statement about whether he shares such considerations. The hard phase, the intensive phase, the concrete phase of accession negotiations with Slovakia and with the Czech Republic is expected to be in autumn. That is to say, until at the very latest at that time, the National Council must have a clear opinion on this. I believe that there must be such a nuclear treaty with those countries that want to join the EU, with our northern neighbours. I believe that this is a historic opportunity, this anti-Atom debate, this question of the necessary compensation of scrap tractors at our border – I mention only the AKWs Temelin, Bohuni#e, Dukovany, Mochovce – and of course also Krško in consequence, and I believe that since the Austrian Federal Government must speak a clear word in these accession negotiations. In this sense, I would like to give you a statement of the Greens to the 10th. It is a commemorative day of Chernobyl. [[The speaker shows a brochure.]] In fact, it's a phrase of thought! – And maybe between all the hustle and bustle that happens here is also time to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42105	The next speaker is Mr Johann Schuster. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42130	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A proverb reads: People owe the progress to dissatisfaction. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It must therefore be shown dissatisfaction in some areas if we are prepared to have a positive impact on progress. In the 1996/1997 budget debate, a number of priorities were particularly developed: It is about the topic of genetic engineering, it concerns whether Austria is free of BSE meat, or whether we are commemorating the ten years after the reactor accident in Chernobyl. We know that in Austria there is a great effort to form an axis between producers on the one hand and consumers on the other. As far as food is concerned, we can see that Austria, with its natural production on the one hand, but also with its control of quality, is well on the road in Europe. It was pointed out yesterday in the chapter on health that all the parties demand from the Minister of Health increased controls or labelling and approval requirements of all genetically modified and genetically engineered foods. But we also know that Austria is free from BSE meat thanks to these initiatives. In this respect, the main trade organisations, the Federal Insulation of the Fleischer and the Fachverband der Fleischwarendustrie have made a written confession. In this regard, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution at today's final debate: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also ask all other parties to give their assent to this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42205	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schuster is included in the negotiations and is sufficiently supported. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42229	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has shown himself here in a significant act of spiritual self-discharge and has criticized the fact that the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has co-financed or subsidized this brochure. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What kind of expression is this?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But when you say "Subject"! The self-righteousness of the left! The ultra-left!]] I remember: A week ago, the same Member of Parliament, Haider, criticised the government for refusing to do so in media politics or in politics towards the ORF, for holding a state radio, a state television, in which only one's own opinion can be published. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has criticized the government's dual nature if you have not understood it!]] Even younger, Mr Haider – which was just a few days ago – wanted to boast, not here in this House, but through the support of the "profile" editor Hubertus Czernin, with a quote of Voltaire, according to which he is one of those who will also protect the opinion of the others and stand for them if they are not of this opinion. The same honourable Member, Mr Haider, stands out here and criticises Federal Minister Hums for subsidising a brochure in which there is something that the Federal Minister of Human Rights cannot actually represent, because it contradicts his own opinion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't understand!]] I am sorry, Mr Stadler, and if you have not understood this, I am sorry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't understand!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't understand! That's the problem!]] This is your way of dealing with freedom of expression, your way of dealing with democracy policy. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He criticises that the government is too double-talent!]] Mr Stadler, you know that. [[The speaker has a brochure.]] Let me quote a few things from that. This is a series of writings by the National Defence Academy entitled: "NATO accession to Austria", author: Erich tab. Erich Reiter is head of section and head of the Presidential and Legal Section of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. This Mr Reiter, a former or still member of the Liberals, makes a very detailed comment in this book not only on the possible NATO accession, but also on Austria's neutrality policy. He characterises this neutrality policy, for example, as a humble neutrality; he characterizes it elsewhere as a political involvement by Austrian neutrality thinking. He says that a cramped neutrality ideology prevails in Austria. – This is the attempt of a high official in the Ministry of State Defense to execute and represent the Neutrality Act to change Austria’s neutrality policy. It is, of course, an interesting question, how to evaluate it. It is an official writing of the Ministry of Defence, and it is not a question of whether the Ministry of Defence allows Mr Reiter to comment on what I would absolutely think is legitimate, that of course a senior official of the Ministry of Defence must also have the opportunity, with his criticism of an official policy, not to keep behind the mountain with his criticism of the laws in a certain framework. Of course I agree with him! – But it is something else if the Ministry of Defence in its own publication makes its own laws, namely the Neutrality Act, in fact bad and the Neutrality Act ad absurdum wants to lead through this argumentation. That would be something we should seriously discuss whether this is really something that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs should finance and promote in this case. That would be something we should think about. I mean, In the event of doubt, Mr Reiter and his personal opinion should be preferred to the possible restriction of this freedom of expression by the Ministry. But I really think it is a problematic matter when a very important law that is based on this Republic, namely the Neutrality Act, almost by the Ministry of Defence or a high, one of the highest officials in this ministry is led ad absurdum when trying to resolve it. I think that is a question of concern. It's very different with this brochure. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] Since I am mentioned in this brochure, I can tell you: I do not agree, Mr Haider, with the brochure either – and that will You may be surprised – in all respects agree. But that's not the subject. It may surprise you that I did not read this brochure before its publication, did not practice censorship, whether it really reflected my opinion on all points. That wasn't the subject either. There was an survey, a workshop in which various contributions to this topic were collected and brought together by a team of authors. Of course, I think it is legitimate that this team of authors should publish its opinion without Mr Oellinger or without the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and at all not Mr Haider, or anyone else before, having to accept this brochure, so that the agreement can be given to their subsidisation. May the citizens of this Republic protect us, Mr Haider, that your concept of democracy, your opinion of freedom of expression, your view of the subsidisability of brochures, newspapers and magazines in this Republic can ever prevail!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42371	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking. Second word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42392	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! A brief replication of Mr Wabl's remarks. There is no question at all – the Liberals have often and often, and I would like to do so again, say and establish it: We are in favour of resource taxation, but we want a tax relief for human labour when it comes to resource taxation. This is an ecological tax reform – everything else is money acquisition, Mr Wabl. I do not understand that – and I am saying this only from one Styrian national councillor to another Styrian national councillor, Mr Wabl – it is entirely one of the rights which the Styrian citizens have under the constitution – read to you the § 36 of the Constitution – were simply passed on this question. Mr Wabl, who, as we have noted earlier, is also strong in the process of democratisation, it simply goes without saying that the rights of the Styrian citizens will pass. He may still find that funny, but we do not! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And this also shows, Mr Wabl, that it has been something quite different than in the explanatory remarks of this bill of the Steermärkian Landtag we mention: The exceptions show that it really was only a panic-like acquisition of money, with which you try as far as possible to save your own clients. Therefore, the ecological steering effects have not been estimated because they will not occur – perfectly clear! – because where the steering effect should occur, the exceptions are placed. That is why those who are ecologically correct are asked to check out, but those who do not are excluded. Where the sense is behind it, you have to explain it to me first! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The purpose raised, including by Mr Wabl, is so soft and completely contradicts the other content of this law that there is no need to refer to it seriously. What is generally underestimated by all political groups in this matter is the prejudicial effect, ladies and gentlemen. This measure, if it goes through, will also have a prejudicial effect for all other federal states. The Lower Austrians do not think in vain about whether they could not do the same. Now they say, we're waiting for the Steirers to find out, and if it goes, we'll press the other one on the eye. If your call, Andreas Wabl, was really serious about communication here from the Pult, then you would have to be a supporter of the motion for a resolution by us Liberals, who demands a discussion between the National Council and the Federal Council, which is the same as it is provided for in our Constitution to be able to discuss this question. – This is about communication and not about driving! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Again: In this case, this procedure, which has been taken up by the Styria – in my opinion in the best faith – is damaging to the consolidation of public budgets, harms the enforcement of an environmental tax reform and, in particular, damages cooperation between the individual states. And that is exactly what we cannot need with regard to the Maastricht criteria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Very right!]] If that is the right thing, Mr Arbitrator, I would be pleased if you would also give your consent to our motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unfortunately, that's not possible!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is precisely one of those problems that the government groups are saying over and over again: This is a proper measure, but unfortunately we cannot agree! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (for Abg. Arbitrators turn) Very elegant!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The price to be received with this levy is simply too high for us Liberals. We rejected this measure in the Landtag. Once again, with our motion for a resolution, Andreas Wabl, we are trying to initiate a discussion here at the national Council level in order to achieve a conflict-free balance of interests and not to shift responsibility to the Constitutional Court, as always happens in politically sensitive questions, instead of when the Constitutional Court has decided to say: At the Constitutional Court you have to be careful, which is already the negative legislator! This is exactly the wrong way, which is not politics, because politics would mean taking measures that are really in line with what is being said here all the time in the debate – now also by the Greens, without really doing so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42495	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42517	Mr President. High house! It took a long time for one of the first guards of the socialist Members in the person of the clubman Kostelka to dare to speak, and finally gave a rather weak defense to his Minister of the Interior from the Rostra, a speech which was not at all a defense at all, but only an attack on our clubman Haider, because no one is ready to defend this minister within the SPÖ, because everyone knows that one has probably already been released internally to write down the memory schilling, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday it was possible to read that only more pragmatized and assigned officials defend Minister One in the media – and besides the Greens, no one here in the House defends him at all. The Greens will probably make him an honorary member of the left wing within the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to congratulate the Green Group on this excellent acquisition today. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But Mr Kostelka has tried, in a remarkably debated manner, to give the National Council the impression – at this point you have really been talking about, otherwise your speeches are quite weak – so [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Ready? You have to decide!]] They have tried to give the House the impression that the accelerator "PKK" would probably be for a nice organization, that is a dear club, there are cards being played, there you meet. "PKK" probably stands for "proletarian coffee wreaths", but not for a terrorist organization, ladies and gentlemen, High House! – Of course you deceive the Austrian public! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will deceive the Austrian public! This has something to do with proletarians, but nothing more with coffee wreaths, as the OGH has noted. You have obviously not read this OGH's knowledge completely – or your secretary has not fully told you if you have not bothered to read this knowledge yourself. Although the OGH says perfectly correctly and in accordance with our criminal law that the ERNK, a subsidiary organisation of the PKK, is a criminal organisation within the meaning of § 278 of the StGB, where § 278 "criminal" is used as a super term. You can now choose whether this is usually a criminal criminal organisation, whether the ordinary bandit and ganovies are, or whether the terrorist is or is the mafia. But further in the back, Mr Kostelka, on page 7 – I recommend the reading of this paragraph – it says literally – I quote: "It was valued" – meaning the court – "in doing so as to make it difficult for I." – that is one of the accused – "had a relevant pre-condemnification, the meeting of a crime with three crimes, and he one" – and now you listen especially to – "especially active role as a terrorist" – as a terrorist! – "has played in the sense of the goal of the organization." Ladies and gentlemen! In this realization, therefore, in connection with this criminal organization, it is clearly about a "terrorist". Mr Kostelka, however, comes out here and says: That's a nice organization, a dear club, and the evil MP Dr. Haider wants to make it a terrorist club. This is such a nice organization that the Minister of the Interior may indeed, because of his closeness to his friend Prader, take over the special pattern for this nice, proletarian coffee wreath round. Only the evil liberals find something bad about it! But rely on it, ladies and gentlemen, High House: Mr Haider did not quote everything from this decision. He has now quoted you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, a little more from it. For I have the impression that when you see you react in such a way that you are obviously not properly informed by your own people, but that you are only expected to really hold up or sit up like the puppets when it comes to voting against the Minister, that you are not giving you pure wine. [[Complaints with the liberals]] How does this "proletarian coffee wreath round" look like in Austria? – It is described this way: ==References====External links== March 1995; The goal of this fire was the Turkish Cultural Association. At the Newroz Festival in the Kurhalle in Vienna-Oberlaa, violent action was planned. The Federal Police Directorate Innsbruck and the security management of Tyrol point out to the Ministry of the Interior that there were large-scale fund extortions, with the ERNK Office finding the appropriate blocks. [[Abg. Arbitrators: We do not know the act!]] This is the problem of having a selective perceptive need: Whenever it comes to a socialist, the ears are closed and the brain is shut off. And then when it comes back to Dr. Haider goes, the diskette is pushed against Haider, and then the Rostra is arduously watered against Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now he looks embarrassingly touched away!]] But the interesting, High House, is that this pattern of the Minister of the Interior is reflected in this closing act, and that this is even so that the PKK wants to move its headquarters to Austria. I'm allowed to quote: "In PKK-Creises Beside Former Eastern Block Countries" – this is also interesting! – "now Austria is also discussing as a possible location for this exile parliament." [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is not the headquarters of the PKK!]] No, Austria should only be the headquarters for the PKK, where the exile parliament is meeting, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Exile Parliament is quite different! That's incredible!]] Mr. Schieder! They will probably also be among those now called. I'm allowed to quote: "The reasons for this are: The high pressure of persecution in the countries of France and Germany – these are probably "bad police states", with which we live as partners in the European Union – "as well" – and now it becomes interesting! – "On the other hand, the very good relations of PKK representatives with Austrian politicians and parties". – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen! Three times you can guess who is meant to be, Mr. Schieder. You will also be there if I listen to you as you age on the fact that the PKK should not move its exile Parliament to Austria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, there they are in parliament, this is an establishment of the Kurds and not the PKK!]] Look, I don't need an office or an exile Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Parliament is recognized by the Council of Europe!]] As long as protective money is exerted here as long as arms trafficking and drug trafficking are carried out here, as long as a war is carried on in our country with which our country has nothing to do, I also have an office too much! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Your representatives have also met with Parliament!]] I don't need an exile parliament of the Kurds in Austria where the PKK indicates the tone. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But the exile parliament is not the PKK!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have always believed that only ministers are one and the international secretary for the PKK, but I now hear that there are obviously prominent Members here, right up to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who feel a special excitement when talking about the PKK of their terrorist activity. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, if you like the exile parliament with the PKK!]] Look, there the PKK people indicate the tone! Don't be so blue-eyed! You know very well that in this non-proletarian non-coffee wreath, which is called PKK with all the daughter organizations, the tone is given in this exile Parliament! [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea at all!]] In any event, your ministerial officials see this as being so, informing their ministers that the Minister has issued an instruction that these organizations should be particularly appropriate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The FPÖ representatives also met with the Exile Parliament!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! How "net" these PKKs operate, I can tell you from an advertisement of a newspaper published in Germany, but especially in Vienna under Kurden, very often distributed, called "Serxwebun" – I suppose I have spoken in Kurdish, "Serxwebun" – in translation. In March 1995 the following appeal appeared in this newspaper – I quote –: "All for war! We call our people to war! In the Kurdistan War of Freedom, we give each one a place between seven and seventy! It is called to the Holy War of Revolution!" A "net" organization! A very "peaceful" story! A "coffee wrench" war should be that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] You can also play with me! You'll be invited too! You can also play in this war! "Our organization grants this opportunity and this opportunity to all who want to fight!", that's what it goes on to say. – Mrs Langthaler, you can report! I'll tell you where: "Whoever wants to fight in the mountains, in the metropolises and in other areas is to register immediately!" – Mrs Langthaler! You're there too! And on top of that: "The time has come to participate in the total war and celebrate the day of triumph. ERNK, Europe-Organisation." – Quotes, ladies and gentlemen. A "fine" club where the Minister of the Interior took over the Patronance. The total war is announced, everyone is supposed to go to the mountains or to go to the metropolises and there war for the PKK, just as Mr. Minister probably introduced himself "In Wild Kurdistan", at the reading of the Karl May book, ladies and gentlemen, High House! Only: He is supposed to stay with his Karl-May-Lektüre and he is supposed to leave Austria alone with this! Austria is at risk with it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What dimension of this conflict has already taken place within the government is recognized by the fact that the headline in the "Kurier" yesterday is in view, where it reads: "The ÖVP lacks the coalition culture." – Whoever is not for the terrorists is missing the "coalition culture", ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: You lack the discussion culture!]] We are trying to make clear to the EIA that it is being called into order. One tries to make clear to the ÖVP with a discipline and with a dressage number that the It will become a coalition issue if you are not for the PKK and its sub-organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! It was Mr Khol who, with a remarkable quote in the House, once gave a stir when he said that the SPÖ members would be led through the High House at the Nosenring. . I hope I correctly quoted you, Mr Khol. What threatens you today, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, is that you are now being laid on the nose ring, and that in a causa for which there are no longer any leftovers of percentages in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I would therefore urge you today to take a stand against the fact that the socialist "constitutional" brochures are on your table, in which your own results of the government negotiations are made ridiculous – it is not about censorship, it is about me being double-bedded – and that today you are supposed to make the wall of an interior minister of which you yourself say that this Minister of the Interior is unbearable, especially because he has an unbearable proximity to foreign terrorist organizations and even takes on a special pattern for these organisations. That is why I say to you today: If you really want to encounter the accusation of being puppets by the ÖVP, you have the opportunity to do so today. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's an invitation!]] If you do not do this again today, you will also lose the remains of credibility and competence, especially in the security area, where you have, admittedly, still some rudimentary competences.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42792	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42813	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My colleague, Mr Schuster, prompted me to speak briefly, on a subject which has been very hard on us in the past. It is about the insanity of cattle and the BSE plan of the European Union to eradicate this disease in order to protect Austrian consumers. Mr Schuster has today tabled a motion for a resolution by the ÖVP calling for a mandatory, verifiable indication of origin. . Well, I am glad that the EIA has now taken up this call, especially since a week ago, last Friday, a joint request from the Green Group, the Liberals and the Liberals was made here in this House, which had this request for substance. This request was voted down by the ÖVP in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the ÖVP has already thought differently after a week and it seems that consumer protection is important because it is also the basis for the existence of thousands of farmers in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a reasonable requirement, but the procedure is typical of the ÖVP. I have given some thought to why it is now submitting this proposal. That's a little suspicious. As always, we must ask very carefully if the EIA submits an application and has a different opinion on a very important subject after a week. I have noticed that negotiations are also taking place in the European Union and that health minister Krammer has recently made an advance in this direction also in Strasbourg. Do you know what Commissioner Fischler, your party friend, is doing today in the "Press" Mrs Krammer's Minister for Health? I quote: "Fischler also gave an idea by Minister of Health Christa Krammer a departure. It expressed its support for the introduction of a geographical designation of origin for bovine animals." . That is nothing but the fact that here in Austria, here in this House, a political group is submitting a request which she already knows is not being enforced in the European Union because her own mandate, her husband from among her own ranks, will vote in Brussels. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a double-beddedness that it is worth being shown. And I call on the Socialist Group to do everything possible to reduce political truthfulness. I also appeal to you, Mrs Krammer, not to let go of it, not at European level, in order to put emphasis on this legitimate demand. If I am already speaking, I would like to take a step further. It is too little to call for a designation of origin, but it is also necessary to analyse the situation of the Austrian farmers more precisely. This disastrous market collapse, which cattle insanity has brought with it, presents many thousands of farmers with real problems of existence. It was a very long winter, the feed stocks tend to end, but the cattle cannot currently be sold. It would therefore be important to finally implement an emergency programme for the Austrian farmers. I cannot accept it and do not understand, Mrs Health Minister, that, from the Austrian side, no progress has been made by the Austrian Government at European level to compensate Austrian farmers with EU funds. I simply think it is wrong for the British beef producers who are the cause of this crisis to be compensated, while the Austrians are being left empty and left in the rain by their government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also making this request, not least because a high-ranking official of the Austrian People's Party recently made these demands public. It was President Schwarzböck who announced in the newspapers that it is now time to help the Austrian farmers too. He's right! He has the opportunity to support our request today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42925	Mr Ing. Reichhold's resolution, which is sufficiently supported, is included in the negotiations. Mr Krüger has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e42949	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! If I may draw a preliminary summary of this two-week budget debate, it should be noted that, in principle, the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, the amendments and the 1996/97 federal financial laws have not changed anything. But please, ladies and gentlemen, there is an exception, and I want to speak to this one now: This exception concerns the district courts. I'm allowed to sum up the situation briefly. The government template initially contained a provision providing for the closure of the district courts. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: The Unbundling!]] Then it was recognized very quickly that the closure of the District Courts was massively involved in country interests. It would have changed significantly in the country's execution. And the consequence, as we know, ladies and gentlemen, would have been that the Federal Council should have approved with a two-thirds majority. That was also the reason why the Budget Committee had its own legislative proposal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, two Members of the Government Party, colleagues from Upper Austria, have tabled this bill, and it was similar to that in the Government's proposal. There is no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen, that on 9 October, In May 1996, the necessary majority would have been found by the votes of the coalition parties at the time when the proposal for a law would have been debated. Ladies and gentlemen! I took this issue out this week and kept the ÖVP the double-landing. The dual need is to act at the national level as a guardian of the district courts and at the federal level to hand over to the Minister of Justice the key to closing the district courts. I am very pleased – and I would like to highlight this as a very positive summary – that the ÖVP has carried out a remarkable change of mind. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We are able to learn!]] The mayors in Upper Austria have entered, and I am pleased, Mr Kukacka, that you are saying here: "We're capable of learning." I welcome this ability to learn, because it also shows that there is still a democratic understanding in the EIA on important issues involving federal rights. I also think it is an act of honesty that MP Mühlbachler has explained literally and with refreshing openness and honesty that he would have changed from Saul to Paul, because now he too opposes with all vehemence the closing of 16 district courts in Upper Austria. I have heard with great satisfaction yesterday, directly from Mr Mühlbachler, that this is the case for the 9th century. The agenda item on the closure of the district courts, which was scheduled in May, was abandoned and the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ, are now being closed for the continuation of the small district courts. – This is also due, of course, to the fact that the freedom of the country-day group in the Upper Austrian Landtag has submitted a request for urgency aimed at preventing the closure of the district courts. I am pleased to say, ladies and gentlemen, that all parties represented in the Upper Austrian Parliament have signed this request for urgency. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is primarily, of course, a success, a victory of the liberal opposition. But this is also a victory of federalism, and above all it is a victory of the federal states against the Vienna central bureaucracy. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is a victory of reason.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43006	There is a second speech by Mrs Haider. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43027	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I take advantage of the opportunity that Mr Fischer, too, is sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, in order to raise a very fundamental question at the end of this budget debate. Over the course of this week, in the course of the debates on very many issues of parliamentaryism, differing opinions were expressed in part, but also in many areas in agreement. It has become apparent that no one is satisfied with the way in which this structural adjustment law and the budgets have been whipped through. But this is an instrument that could be used because there is a majority of two government parties who have chosen this process. There is, however, the federal constitution, and it states that the entire administration may only be exercised under the laws. Therefore, it is also a relatively complex procedure to come to a law. And a law only works in the Republic of Austria when it is declared – if that is contained in the law – when it enters into force and the stations of law enforcement have been carried out. Now I have a letter from the Social Insurance Institute of the Commercial Economy, which made the following statement to its compulsorily insured members last week – I quote –: "Information: Social security institution of the industrial economy. Increase in the rate of contribution in industrial pension insurance from 1 April 1996. As part of the savings package, the government has also decided to increase the contribution rate in industrial pension insurance. ==References== April 1996 the contribution rate in industrial pension insurance accounts for 13.5 percent." – And it is already included in the deposit note. Now I'm asking You really are: How do we deal with parliamentarianism? – This afternoon, the Structural Adjustment Act will only be dealt with in the Federal Council, it is not done at all at all, Sorry, yesterday it has been dealt with in the Federal Council, today it will be imposed from 4 p.m. to enter into force. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It was decided yesterday!]] I do not know whether it is really the appropriate way to deal with Parliament if here, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That's what you're saying!]] Yes, that is precisely what we are saying, because where Parliament really is concerned, you are hiding and moving back on side-by-side fronts, where democracy is really not concerned! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The question now is whether Parliamentaryism is, whether it is a democratic attitude that you have. I am fighting this and criticizing it, but it cannot be in the interests of the government parties that people will be required to make contributions at a time when the laws which have the increase in contributions are not yet in force at all, even if the procedure has not even expired. It is true, therefore, that the administration that sent social security last week sent out the tax regulations because it could no longer expect the money to be collected. This is a genuine custody of the rule of law. This is really a break with the traditions of the Constitution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, we wanted to remind you of this. For if Mr Novotny said out here a few days ago that the liberals want to destroy Parliament, then I can only say, Mr Novotny: [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's right, too!]] Parliament is being destroyed by stamping all of us into puppets and by implementing laws before they are even decided in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43104	There is a second speech by Mr Wabl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43125	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I have to mention a small encouraging result that was sent to me just a quarter of an hour ago by ÖVP and SPÖ delegates: It is an application for product declaration. Mr Schwarzenberger, I assume you have worked hard on this. This is a motion for a resolution which, due to the disasters in Great Britain in Austria, is now finally introducing a legible, comprehensible product declaration. The Minister for Agriculture is jointly invited by SPÖ and ÖVP to develop a concept in this regard in the Ministry. I would like to remind colleagues Schwarzenberger, Schwarzböck and others in the ÖVP, who have not negotiated the Greens' requests for months, only that there is already a group working on it in the Ministry of Agriculture. I wonder why you are now asking for something to be worked out, even though it has long been done. I'm a little surprised, but that doesn't matter. In any case, I am very pleased with your request. Granted, it took a little longer, but it is good that this should finally come. We by the Green Group will, of course, agree with this request, even if our own request has been ignored for many years and has been in the Subcommittee because the chairman was unable to convene or wished to attend a meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on Mr Barmüller's comments. Mr Barmüller, in connection with the eco-tax, it is clear to me that you have invented this. We don't want to argue about that. But in connection with the Styrian activities relating to water pollution and problems in the Styria you should better inform yourself or agree better. The Liberals in the Styrian Landtag voted against it. I don't know if you know what the greens did there: They have been massively opposed to this form of law. But, Mr Barmüller, you and your group in Graz should at some point decide what you really want. – You have had problems with the Ennstrasse: They were against it, Keshmiri and Brno are for it. In connection with the party financing, Brno was against it first, then he drew out of the full. At the time of the water tax you were first for it, now you are boundless against it. Fight Now It is even before the Supreme Court. That is your right, but I expect that sometime there will be a consolidation phase in the Liberal Party in which the partners exchange a little information with each other, Mr Barmüller! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] This is a bit difficult with you, I know, because these partners come from different sociological groups and social areas, but it will still be! Moser is now coming back and she will tell Schmidt how the successor project Draken is. This will certainly still work: The half comes from the party funding that Brno has entered, and the other half will pay to the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still a wonderful debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. So I'm not gonna stop you anymore – if the Liberals or other wild opposition parties believe they have to beat the Greens here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43169	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43190	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The 1996 Structural Adjustment Act was part of the parliamentary measures we negotiated and decided last week; the 1996 and 1997 budget is the second part to be voted today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haider has found here today that social security is already working in advance and that he is taking measures that are extremely uncertain to the citizens and that he believes that Parliament is out of the way or that the parliamentary decision is already under way. I have looked at this information and can tell you the following: In the present case, this is information on the basis of legislation to be passed, which will soon enter into force – after decision-making. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But that's not in the information!]] Just a minute, please! Here's what it says: "Information"! The second is: The government has decided to increase. – The government’s decision on the government template was intended to be sent to Parliament. The note of payment, Dr. Haider – and you can say that quite emotionally and clearly – that has been prepared refers to the old contribution scheme, to the contribution rate of 12.5 percent, because the quarterly contributions are subsequently collected or demanded. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Dr. Haider! A system has certain rules, and it may not be so easily doubted. There already needs to be a clear legal requirement, which is regulated in the GSVG as well as in the ASVG and the BSVG. I believe that these things should be properly represented. The reason for the increase in the contribution rate from 12.5 to 13.5 percent in both the GSVG and the BSVG is that the level of own funding had to be increased in both systems in order to contribute to fiscal consolidation. I would ask that this matter be seen in such a way as to show the correctness.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43240	A second speech is also made by Mr Dr Kier. – Mr deputies, because of the voluntary agreement on a time limit, there are still 3 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43261	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Donabauer has given me a unique opportunity to stress here once again that this is a bad deal with Parliament and a bad deal with our constitution. In my first speech, I had the opportunity to point out a similar case, in which the Financial Office for Companies wrote circular paper with a date which is also clearly ahead of the decision-making in this House. Mr Donabauer, I am not at all comforted when this document refers to a decision by the Federal Government. On the contrary: This makes me even more concerned, Mr Donabauer, because the Federal Government can decide what it thinks is right, but it has no legislative effect. That is why I ask you, Mr Donabauer, perhaps to think more about such defence speeches. In fact, you have confirmed once again that the accusation that I have already made in my first contribution to the debate – that the legislator is being dealt with here, as if he were just more of a ornament – is correct. However, Mr Haider, at the end of a debate in which his group – although the next item on the agenda will be a debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry – is almost exclusively concerned with questions of the Kurds, the PKK and the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, and wants to explain to us how it is dealing with its honesty to Parliament. It's not acceptable to me! It is not acceptable that someone whose group spent an hour using the budget debate to propose small political money – even though on the same day, immediately thereafter, a debate will take place exactly on this point; but obviously this had to be put forward with a view to the conclusion of the editorial and the like – the chairman of the same group then tells us here that he is in favour of parliamentaryism. I think that this is a double-bedded and not even a pity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43301	For the second time, Mr Magistrate. Stadler to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43323	Mr President. High house! The trail that the liberals of the Socialists are trying to draw into the government partnership within the socialist coalition arch has again become a little wider. This has become clear, after these really ridiculous and from the point of view of an opposition party, no longer justified and no longer to be understood. Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! You are rightly the SPÖ's "Blinddarm". – I am telling you that as someone who is currently having problems with the idiosyncrasy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Donabauer is trying to make it clear to us – and this must be done on the tongue – that you are even, I believe, a representative of the Constitutional Committee on Obmann, that this skewer of the Social Security Institute of the Commercial Economy is in order. There's inside: "The government has decided." – The government is already passing laws in Austria! Mr Donabauer, as an expert in the Constitutional Law of the ÖVP, goes out here and finds nothing to be done about the government's passing laws and we only have more to do here than the government's puppets, ladies and gentlemen. – This opens up a thought that speaks directly of a parliamentarianism! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He goes out here, knowing that Mr Kier, yesterday, in an approach to a residual portion of courage, described a case where the Financial Office for Traffic Taxation is already implementing regulations, although the law is not yet in force. He knows. Today he is justifying the next practice of the Social Insurance Institute of the Commercial Economy, just because he has a fat director's content there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls:For farmers]] With the farmers, excuse me! The social security institutions are all in agreement on this issue. It is likely that the farmers will only have to be asked to come up with similar regulations. And he doesn't think it's a matter of fixing the order. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer! You probably do not find anything in that – as I take away a wage bill from a federal official – the one-time payment of 2 700 S in April 1996 is already in place at the time of the month reference, although the corresponding law is not yet in force. That's incredible! At the moment, the cases where we see this government disregard Parliament, and you should take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43369	There is no further word message. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have some votes to take, and I would ask you to pay special attention. We are now voting separately on the two Committee proposals concerning the 1996 and 1997 Federal estimates. First of all, the draft federal financial law for 1996, together with investments in 70 and 70 of the supplements, as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements, is to be voted on. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mühlbachler, Ing. Mr Gartlehner and Mr Comrades tabled amendments. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Count and comrades submitted an amendment. In addition, the honourable Member has power. Trattner calls for separate vote. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have called for separate votes. First of all, I will have to vote on the amendments mentioned and on those parts on which separate votes have been requested, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been agreed. There are now estimates 1/02107, 1/02207, 1/02400 and 1/02403 of Chapter 02 of Annex I to the Federal legislation as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining estimates of Chapter 02 of Appendix I to the Federal legislation as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. I now put to the vote the estimate approach 1/6000 of Chapter 06 of the Court of Auditors, as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was adopted by a majority. In Chapter 10 Federal Chancellor's Office there is an amendment tabled by Dr Graf and Comrades. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The amendment was rejected. I shall immediately vote on Chapter 10 of the Federal Proposal, as amended by the Government's paper, 70 of the Supplements, and I shall ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for this sign to do so. - That's the majority. This chapter has been adopted by a large majority. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades refer to the modification of the area of responsibility in the estimate approach 2/54854. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. This amendment was adopted by a majority. Proposals 1/6311, 1/63116, 1/6315, 1/63566, 1/6317 and 1/63176 of Chapter 63 Trade, industry and tourism, as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This part has been accepted by the majority. We come to the vote on the remaining parts of Annex I to the 1996 Federal Estimate, including total summaries (Annexes 1a to 1c) - taking into account the amendment previously adopted - and also the economic compensatory estimate (Annex II) and its summary breakdown (Annex IIa) as well as Appendices III – establishment plan, IV – vehicle plan and V – plan for data processing plants - in 70 and 70 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This part of the Federal proposal has also been adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the 1996 Federal Financial Act, as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades have an amendment concerning Article III (1). 2 introduced. I leave on Article III para. 2 having regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Mühlbachler, Mr Ing. Gartlehner and Comrades vote and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Article III, par. 2 has been accepted by the majority, taking into account the amendment proposal. Finally, the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, together with the title and receipt in 70 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report 96 of the Supplements, are to be voted on. Whoever agrees here may disclose this by a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. This concludes the second reading of the Federal Finance Act 1996 and its investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the draft law at third reading to have a similar sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority of the third reading. The 1996 budget has thus been adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on a motion for a resolution which is directly linked to this budget, and I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Gradwohl and Mr Comrades on the proposal for a new system for the labelling of meat and meat products. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. This motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously. (E 10.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft Federal Finance Act for 1997, together with investments in 71 and 71 of the supplements, as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mühlbachler, Ing. Mr Gartlehner and Mr Comrades tabled amendments. Mr Graf and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. In addition, the honourable Member has power. Trattner calls for separate vote. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have called for separate votes. First of all, I will have to vote on the amendments mentioned and on those parts on which separate votes have been requested, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been agreed. There are now estimates 1/02107, 1/02207, 1/02400 and 1/02403 of Chapter 02 of Annex I to the Federal legislation as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees here may give a corresponding sign. – These approaches have been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining estimates of Chapter 02 of Appendix I to the Federal legislation as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I am looking for a corresponding sign. – This part has been adopted by a majority. I now put to the vote the estimate approach 1/6000 of Chapter 06 of the Court of Auditors, as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This approach has been adopted by a large majority. In Chapter 10 Federal Chancellor's Office there is an amendment tabled by Dr Graf and Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is rejected. I shall immediately vote on Chapter 10 of the Federal Proposal, as amended by the Government's proposal, 71 of the Supplements, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – Chapter 10 of the Federal Proposal as amended by the Government's proposal has been adopted by a large majority. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades refer to the modification of the area of responsibility in the estimate approach 2/54854. Whoever agrees here, I ask for an appropriate sign. – The amendment has been accepted by the majority. Proposals 1/6311, 1/63116, 1/6315, 1/6356, 1/6317 and 1/63176 of Chapter 63 Trade, industry and tourism, as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees here may disclose this by a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The above estimates have been adopted by a majority. We are now voting on the remaining parts of Annex I to the 1997 Federal Estimate, including total summaries (Annexes Ia to Ic) - taking into account the amendment previously adopted - and also the economic compensatory estimate (Annex II) and its summary breakdown (Annex IIa) as well as Appendices III - establishment plan, IV - vehicle plan and V - plan for data processing plants - in 71 and 71 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Committee's report in 97 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to these parts of the Federal proposal to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. These parts were adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the 1997 Federal Financial Act, as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades have an amendment concerning Article III (1). 2, Article VII, points 12 and 13, and Article X, paragraph 2. 1 point 2. I leave on Article III para. 2, Article VII, points 12 and 13, and Article X, paragraph 2. 1nd paragraph 2, taking into account the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades vote and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a corresponding sign. – The above parts have been accepted by the majority, taking into account the amendment proposal. The vote is now under Rule V. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one point 24 as part of the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. - That's the majority. This part has been adopted by a majority. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, together with the title and receipt in 71 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report 97 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees here may disclose this by a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. These parts of the proposal have also been adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 1997 and on investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who have approved this draft law at third reading in order to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. This also adopted the 1997 budget. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Ofner and Mr Comrades on the special promotion of the groups in the 'Millenium Year'. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on the increase in the national defence budget in the XX. legislative period at a comparable European level. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zweytick, Mr Leikam, Mr Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Barmüller, Wabl and comrades concerning nuclear power stations at Austria's borders. Whoever agrees here may show this by a sign. This request has been adopted unanimously. (E 9.) We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and comrades on ensuring the delivery of privatisation proceeds to research and technology promotion. Whoever agrees to this request may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The request has not been accepted. I now turn to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. ==References====External links== Consisting of national law. Whoever is for this, may show this by a sign. – That too is the minority. This request has not been accepted. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the prevention of the double toe as a result of the introduction of the Toutpickerl. Whoever is in favour of this request, may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the prevention of toll on urban highways. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Preisinger and comrades concerning toll pickerl for vehicles with alternating marks. Whoever is for this, may express this. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Pumberger and others on the green light for group practices and employment societies for health professionals. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on LKF application also at day-to-day clinics and sanatoriums. Whoever agrees here may show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application did not receive any consent. The motion for a resolution by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on health care is to be voted on as a priority concern of the Federal Health Policy. Whoever agrees to this request may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Firlinger and comrades concerning the meat investigation law 1982. Whoever is in favour of this request shall make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on drug prevention. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pumberger and others on consumer protection on the basis of health schools. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the introduction of binding designations of origin for meat and meat products. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may declare this by means of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the introduction of control and quality assurance measures in the context of the LKF. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application has been rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Barmüller and comrades concerning the risk of federal interests by the law of the Steermärkian Landtag on a Nature Use Tax Act. Whoever agrees to this motion for a resolution may declare this by a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. As the last motion for a resolution in this context, I shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wenitsch and Mr Comrades on EU price compensation for Austrian cattle farmers. Whoever stands up for this, may make this known by a sign. This motion for a resolution did not find the necessary majority. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43861	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stadler and colleagues on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior in relation to measures against the PKK and, secondly, the investigation of bombing. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43949	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure I limit the speaking time in this debate to 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Ederer. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e43973	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I am firmly convinced that policy is characterised by different political positions. I also believe that it is right that these different positions in terms of content should be repeatedly discussed. I am also of the opinion that it should be very hard political debate because it is part of politics. But what I am opposed to is a process that no longer focuses on the content of the matter, but on personal attacks, which ultimately involves making a politician or a politician worse. I think that is wrong for a number of reasons. The first reason is that all politicians – including the Federal Government, the state governments, the countryside – have one thing in common, namely the professional image of the politician. And if one or one here is condemned again and again, all of us meet. The professional image of the politician is being questioned, and in the end people in this country feel that they are all the same, and that is not a lot to start with. That means that this is, on the one hand, a undermine of the democratic system and, on the other hand, a very personal and psychological question. In contrast to other people in that country, politicians are exposed to public assessment. That is, if we do something wrong here or if a minister does something wrong, then we do not have the chance that the failure will remain in a small circle, that it will not come to the public. On the contrary: As a politician or politician, you will find his assessment in every newspaper. Each and every one in Austria receives this assessment, and this is often a very personal problem and goes deep into the personal and psychological areas. In recent years, there have been people in Austrian domestic policy who have been condemned by the media and by some politicians. I think they paid a very high bill, and you should be very careful here. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is now an application for the setting up of an investigation committee. A committee of inquiry is in favour of clarifying political responsibility, not only legal but also political. I have the impression, however, that the applicants do not need any information about political responsibility because they have long drawn their conclusions about the Austrian Minister of the Interior. I would just like to read two examples to you. These are two quotations from Mr. Klubobmann Haider, in which he says: "One is not a democrat, so it is necessary to get another Minister of the Interior." The second quote is: "Mr. Minister One doesn't have our trust anymore. I think he's in danger of going into a pubanie with the left-wing terrorists." – This is classical pre-condemnification, which is a classical condemnation of a person without having any evidence. And that is the same thing that should not be done in Austrian domestic policy. A committee of inquiry would not be used by the applicants, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify content positions in order to ultimately clarify political responsibility, but would be used as a platform to continue with the political accusations. And we won't let that happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say the following. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is not about the PKK for applicants – I am primarily from Klubobmann Haider – but it is about the first of them not wanting an interior minister who once was a paroleist, because it does not fit into the system. A person who says himself, the Minister of the Interior belongs to a g’sunde Watsch’n, who has nothing at all to do with a parole officer who provides for quite different forms of conflict management, and does not want to do it as an interior minister. That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second: It's also a distraction maneuver. A person who says red and black felt lice should be fought with blue acid, who does not mention that the brown brute is a danger, but the red bulwark – he thinks us, dear colleagues – and who ultimately participates in Waffen-SS meetings, he needs a distraction maneuver, namely that there are left terrorists in the country, because then he is courteous and possibly also able to enter any government.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44017	Please pay attention to the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44032	You are not concerned with the PKK, you are concerned with a distraction maneuver with high personal costs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Final rate!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44071	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44091	Ladies and gentlemen! The statements by Mrs Ederer here have not really surprised me at all, because I know the chronic malice of SPÖ and ÖVP when it comes to dealing with a request for the setting up of an investigation committee. The Noricum Committee and the Lucona Investigation Committee have already come up against the greatest resistance of SPÖ and ÖVP. Seven times we have made a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, and then, admittedly with the help of the Greens, this committee has finally been set up on the basis of a very blatant electoral failure. We know that you are walling, and I am aware that in this case the Socialists are particularly interested in the fact that no committee of inquiry is being set up within the framework of which the Minister of the Interior is reviewed. But you from the Austrian People's Party should now show that you are not subject to this misconceptional coalition fidelity, but you should examine what Mr Kiss has already said in the election campaign. He said that the Minister of the Interior had given an illegal direction when it came to the investigation or non-examining of the PKK. Now you have the opportunity to examine, Mr Kiss, whether this directive was illegal or not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Mag. Ederer! You are right that the professional image of the politician is extremely important and that there is a constant public discussion of how a politician acts. But do you not believe that a politician is already very bad in the public on account of this accusation, as he is made to one? Do not believe that it would also be in the interests of politicians in general to investigate: Why has an instruction been given? What guidance did there even exist? – For there was one, we have already seen this from a note presented by Mr Haider. But it would also be interesting to consider why the Minister of the Interior denied that he gave such an instruction. We must be interested in this – whether they are from a government group or not – by parliamentarians. Control law is one of the most important rights. We have already been granted all the other rights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, the legislation is no longer making Parliament, but it is already making the Minister or the Government, as we have now seen again in these ominous decisions. The control function is also continuously cut with such dubious responses. One last part of this control function is a committee of inquiry. And there you are regularly those who are walling, who say, no, that's not what we want. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a matter which must be examined by the court, but rather the political responsibility of a minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not a question of the courts whether the executive is blind on one eye and in the case of letter bomb terrorism has only been determined to the right and not to the left. This does not have to be clarified by a court, but it has to be clarified by those who are politically responsible. And for that, the committee of inquiry is the only right way! Mrs Ederer! To you again: You've done exactly what you're giving us in your speech. You said that we would only demand the setting up of the committee of inquiry as a distraction maneuver. You said we'd just explain everything to the Minister of the Interior. – You have made this pre-condemnification! And you accuse us that we are always making prejudices! – So I really find that strange that you do exactly what you blame us. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: As the bad guy is, he thinks!]] - That's right! I ask you to give up this coalition fidelity – I am speaking to you from the Austrian People's Party – that you show once that we are not only a blind voting machine, but that we are independent of those Members, as it is in the Constitution, who are independent of any party mandate and who also have a control right and should exercise this control right once too.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44147	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44168	Mr President. High house! In the decades of tradition of its foreign policy, the Austrian People's Party has always advocated the rights of minorities and minorities themselves, both domestically and abroad. And in this tradition, the Austrian People's Party has always participated in the fate of the Kurdish people. We have always advocated dialogue with the Kurdish people, with all those forces who want to enforce their rights in a democratic and non-violent way. However, the Austrian People's Party has always distanced itself from terrorist organisations or organisations trying to enforce their rights with criminal means. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, the judgment of the Supreme Court and the corresponding instructions of the Minister of the Interior are the subject of an inquiry by the prosecutor and thus in the Austrian case law. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not a case law?]] - Excuse me. We are therefore pending at Austrian courts. We trust in the independence of the Austrian courts, and we therefore do not believe that such a pre-judgment by a committee of inquiry should affect this judgment. We will therefore not vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44210	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44231	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Khol, Clubobmann of the ÖVP and also the chief guardian of the "Constitutional Arch", is an honorable man. What he says has weight and must also be taken seriously. I could see how he disciplined his group with red cards this week. The Group has done what it has ordered with the red cards. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Much of what he has said up to now also has hands and feet; even what he has said in connection with the Minister of the Interior, who is now discussing, has had a hand and foot. He has said of One thing – Pauli, to you I come in the same way, a little patient – One is a danger to this country. – That's what this honourable man Dr. Khol really recognized. And this honorary Dr. Khol said: If this one should sit in a government, I am not available to this government. - Good. This honourable man once failed. But what's going on, that can happen. Mr Khol! Today you have a chance to restore your honor. You are not available with your ÖVP, you said, Mr Khol! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Khol is not in government!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is related to the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm not in government!]] But Mr. Pauli Kiss, who can't expect it until we come to him, did on 14 May. A press conference entitled "One – one case" was held in December 1995. And then, under the word "fact", he described the following: The Austrian Interior Minister as a guardian of the Austrian legal order gives an illegal instruction, according to Pauli Kiss! – terrorists in Austria must not be combated by the security organs. And thus – according to Pauli Kiss – he issues a free letter for all the terrorist activities of the PKK in Austria. He also said: This is a criminal organisation, and here the Minister has violated the principles of law in Austria, especially because it is – as he then in an instruction of 21 January. April 1995 – there are no consequences, only when attacks can be brought back to this office. – In a press conference, honorary Pauli Kiss has acted accordingly. And Kiss has demanded consequences! He said: Due to the fact that the Minister of the Interior is not only committed to the laws of the Republic, but also in his function as one of the top guardians of the Austrian legal order – with which he is right – the scientific break of Austrian laws cannot be tolerated by him. – So is Father Pauli Kiss, as he stands here. And then he said, The only sensible solution therefore appears to be an immediate resignation of this Minister. - That's the honorary Pauli Kiss. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Well, we do not want to call today for the resignation of this Minister, although he would have been due for a long time and he would have to take this step of his own, but we want to have the proceedings on this point examined. And we want to give the Honourable ÖVPler Kiss and Klubobmann Khol the opportunity to restore their honor in the form that you agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44307	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44335	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The question we have to answer in order to decide our voting behaviour for the request to set up an investigation committee is a political one. She already has some criminal aspects, but she is primarily a political question. First, I turn to the criminal aspects. There's a preliminary investigation. Moreover, the discussion of this is a problem of its own, because the essence of the preliminary investigation is... [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: There's no preliminary investigation! That's a pre-examination!]] There are preliminary surveys. I would like to thank you very much, because this is an essential difference! I was unconcentrated for a moment. There are pre-examinations and the discussion is a particular problem, because it is the lowest level of examination on the possible initiation of an actual criminal procedure, but it is already in a form of an examination; therefore, it is not usually a matter of public debate. The fact that this stage of the proceedings is made public in this case is, in itself, a sign of a certain lack of law. For the purpose of the preliminary surveys is to make clarifications and then to find a decision whether to continue or not without discrediting the persons who may not even be indicted immediately. I'm just mentioning that. But at least now we know that there is. Therefore, the question is whether illegalities are present here or not, at a very specific level of our rule of law in discussion, and that should be so. It's supposed to be, it'll take its course. – As far as the legal aspect is concerned. A second aspect is the judgment of the Supreme Court. Those who have studied the Supreme Court's judgment more precisely do not find anything there that he did not know before. I have to say this quite clearly. In fact, there has been a criminal proceedings and an appeal, which has been taken, established by the Supreme Court in the overall context of criminal offences, which, I believe, each one of us must have known before. We know that there is terror in Turkey, and in part there is repressive terror, that there are terrorist attacks from Kurdish circles in Germany. And that is what we know about terrorists. In the specific case, the question was to be demarcated only on the basis of concrete acts of action, whether the perpetrators who in that case have appealed to the Supreme Court by means of an appeal are to be subsumed under this circle of perpetrators or not. And this question was answered by the Supreme Court – and nothing else. He has not made any political findings that go beyond that. That means, of course, that judgment is serious, but it is nothing new at all, because we know that there is terror practiced by Kurds. However, we should not hide the fact that this terror has been triggered by another form of terror, namely the grossest disregard for human rights in Turkey. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on representatives of the SPÖ and on the Greens.]] And that's not a bill when I mention it. I'm just saying, you can't be uniform. The applicants for this request, which occasionally accuses others and their political opponents of unanimity, provide proof of their own inadequacy, because they do not seem to be important to the Kurds' human rights in Turkey, otherwise they would see this connection. But, of course, this one is not a reason and not a legitimacy for the other. I'd like to hold on to that. But now to the political question, so that I can end up: The political question must be discussed. It's a political line question. But this political line is not entirely new either. This one has not invented the current Minister of the Interior, it has tradition in Austria. We should discuss this politically, but not in the form that we should involve a member of the government, which we find by chance now, in a committee of inquiry, but that we discuss this question and decide together and not criminalise it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I already know that colleagues from the FPÖ have an disturbed relationship to these questions because they seem to have such a close relationship with politics and crime that they sometimes cannot distinguish it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44384	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44406	Mr President. High house! It was not surprising, of course, for us liberals, that the Liberals again played out as the advocates of the Minister of the Interior, namely those Members who are constantly quoting the laws, who find legal interpretations, scepticisms, and who speak the Constitution. This is really a very strange way of dealing. I think you are really blind on one eye, Mr. Kier! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is a cleanery!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I fully understand that you are aging. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The considerations on pre-conceptions et cetera have already been addressed. I agree with the SPÖ that there is no pre-condemnification in the criminal sense. But, Mrs Central Secretary, Mr Ederer, just as there is a pre-condemnification in criminal law, there is no criminal or political form of pre-crisis. And that is it, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it's all about. You want to present this forerunner to the Minister of the Interior, and the ÖVP is making itself a willing companion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One more, Mr Kier! It was also written to you in the main book. There are two levels to be examined here: One level is the level of criminal law, which concerns criminal responsibility. A committee of inquiry is concerned with political responsibility. As a lawyer, Mr Kier, you know that very well. It is precisely from this point of view that it is so inexplicable that you are playing here again with inaccurate reasons to defend the duty of the Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A fact has already been addressed today, namely the inconceivable expression of the Minister of the Interior One in Linz. One said literally today that there is a political debate on "Bassena-Niveau" by running as a prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of the Interior assumes that the prosecution of a bassena must be equal. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: No!]] He says it. The statement that a political debate is being held on "Bassena-Niveau" by running to the public prosecutor's office is quite clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] See, Mr Novotny, that's the springing point: Minister One feels like a monarch, a legibus solutis. I, one, stand above the laws. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I, "by One"!]] I'm over the laws. I don't care. Or is this inconceivable insult of the prosecutor's office and justice, for which the Minister of Justice should actually stand up for the prosecutors to interpret in such a way that Mr. Minister calls one of them with a conviction and therefore says immediately for this reason, is it about a "bassna-level" at the public prosecutor's office? – This is an incredible derailment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to finding the truth in the political sense, when it comes to a complete coverage of the matter, what does a committee of inquiry stand up to? What is a committee of inquiry for a terrible body? – Witnesses are questioned, a case is identified, and conclusions are drawn. The conclusions can be quite different in nature. But, from the outset, with the reference - now addressed to the address of the People's Party - to the Court of Justice, it is too cheap for you to know that the Court of Justice is examining a completely different level of fact and decision. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we have requested a nameable vote. And I am very grateful for the fact that every single member of the EIA, who once again stands behind One on the basis of unlawful motives, is included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44506	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44527	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The enthusiasm, which is formally sprang from your speech, and the conviction you show, colleagues from the FPÖ, shows how important and how serious it is to you. You already have the choice, because you have delivered it within the framework of the agenda. And that's the troublesome duty program you're doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] It's always the same thing: It is a cheap comedy that you supply, which obviously has the background that you are afraid of losing its influence in the Ministry of the Interior, because it is known that a procedure against several officials is going in this direction. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schottengasse!]] You are afraid that you will lose this influence and that you will no longer be able to mix and mix with these surveys. This is obviously to be done by a committee of inquiry which would then have nothing to do with hindering the actual surveys on the information of the attacks. That seems to be the case. But the theater you're doing here is always the same. Look at the minutes of the last week and this week. They're spicy with intermediate calls that are immense. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're full of prejudices!]] In your own word messages, there is a mix of accusations, defamations and slanders against people who are not here who cannot defend themselves at all, allegations that lack any basis. Wherever such individuals found the way to court and took the effort to go to the highest instance, you have lost. It turns out again and again that you have a mixture of poetry and half-truths that you present and that you try to take advantage of in a populist way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] .. – You really have every means to do that. The following is also to be said to you – I was not present at this meeting last week because I was on a parliamentary mission –: If you believe that you are successful by trying to bring me with any claims that are not even understandable to me, which are not even explainable to me, into a slanting light or into an optic that could follow your argumentation, your intentions, then remember: You're on your way! As you are clearly constantly quoting from the file, I can assume that you also know about my files at the State Police and the Army Defense Office. I can tell you that you can continue to quote quietly, because this is without any connection and any claim you make in this regard. I can tell you, you're completely on the wood road. Keep on quoting, but at least find out the right files! Don't get into wrong files, and bring them. They are not other innocent persons in such a light that these people cannot defend themselves and can never rehabilitate again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not only unfair and unfair, but, as you can see, there is not much more to be done with it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44596	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44618	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the sober facts. Here in the house a few hours ago, the Minister of the Interior explained that he had not given any instructions in the context in question. A quarter of an hour later, he was read from an act of the Ministry of the Interior that he gave the instruction and as she said. The Minister of the Interior here in Parliament has not said the truth to the Members and thus to the public in order to express it intently. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fact 2: Chief officials of the Interior have not even turned to the public on several occasions, calling for help and for help, and, among other things, have pointed out that in terrorist attacks with their officials, they may only have been identified in a specific direction. Fact 3: In fact, only six or seven of a large series of explosive attacks have been clarified, and this is because of the failure of one, the perpetrators have found death in this and could be derived from the bodies of the killers. All other attacks, the letter bomb attacks, Klagenfurt, Oberwart, Stinatz et cetera, are unexplained after a long time – to this day. And it is open whether this is related to the fact that, as top officials – I repeat it – can only be determined in a certain direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Independent of this, inconsistencies with regard to these attacks are said to have increased inconsistencies. So much for the facts. It's not about valuations, it's not about the drumherum – it's about the facts. The Minister of the Interior has not said the truth here in Parliament, that is not long ago, we all have a fresh memory of it. It's unexplained explosive attacks. Chief officials regret that this is so, and they place in the room that they may only have been able to determine with their people in a certain direction. Now on the issue of judicial proceedings, because preliminary proceedings are a procedure; judicial proceedings on the one hand and examination committee on the other: This has never bothered this House in the setting up of committees of inquiry. I just remember the committees that come to my mind: AKH, WBO, NORICUM and "Lucona". There have been parallel judicial procedures and committee procedures everywhere. This is also quite clear, because it is a matter of different objectives: The court is there to work out and draw the consequences of a conduct which is relevant to criminal law. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry shall determine the mandate, political responsibilities and the underlying facts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is always true, ladies and gentlemen, that if there are any applications for the setting up of such committees, there will first be resistance. But in the end, the Committee is always coming. The longer resistance is made, the more embarrassing it becomes for those affected. I remember how long it took for the AKH. I remember how difficult it was at the WBO, how difficult it was in the case of "Lucona", since it was finally Gratz himself who wanted the Committee. Everyone asked: What does he want now? – The Committee took him and another minister away, and it was no different with NORICUM. I'll tell you: If the Minister does not previously suffer or a similar diplomatic event should occur, then this committee will come. And in the interests of all, including and not least of the minister concerned, he will determine what has happened and see what political responsibilities there are to be borne by whom. – It will come; and it will come in the interest of all. And those who try to wall will be all the more in the light, the longer it takes for the Committee to be set up.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44700	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44721	Mr President. High house! I would remind you that in his municipalities Waldhäusl and Friedersbach he had a RAF man and these municipalities were dissolved only after a drug addict, because there was also a drug scene there, was killed by a self-incineration. I recall that this Minister of the Interior came to the headlines by means of "TATblatt" - for a printing machine and for process costs that the "TATblatt" had to impose, because it has lost processes to fake one of the previous speakers against FPÖ. I recall that Mr. Caspar of One, Mr. Baron of One, in his perfection of power, which he presented to us these days, has been struck by the fact that he knew one of the dead suspects from Ebergassing personally and that he had disputed for three days, namely Mr Thaler, with whom he has already noticed in the home-occupied scene Aegidi-/Spalowskygasse – on which there is a video – and has done a corresponding donation work with this Lord. I recall that this minister did not know immediately after the attack in Ebergassing, that there was a political assignment – he disputed it for three days – but from the outset he disputed any political connection of the attack in Ebergassing with those in Oberwart, Stinatz and Klagenfurt, although until then there is not a spark of an investigation result on the table, ladies and gentlemen! I wonder why? I would remind you that this Minister of the Interior has made false information in the public and here in the house about the timing of the departure of the wanted assassin Bassam al Taher. I recall that this man, as a PKK-patron for the ERNK and in particular for his friend Prader, has gone to an instruction to protect this terrorist organization from police access. And I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are four fines – four fines! –: an advertisement of the "Forum" editor Oberschlick, who knows God...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44758	Second, Mr Stadler! I ask the gentlemen at the gallery to include any interference in the course of the negotiations and not to engage in any dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44779	They didn't get it, Mr President. – Do I get the microphone again? I remind you that there are four fines: Mr Kiss, who has now led to the parliamentary debate, and who is a blamable chapter of his parliamentary career for Members Kiss, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, because he must practice himself today in chastity and in coalition discipline. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I would remind you that there is an attorney's fine, because the Minister of the Interior has been able to pick up the registers in the Vienna security office by EBT officials, and I would remind you that there is an extensive criminal charge from me, which contains the ominous operations in the disability of investigations to investigate the terrorist attacks. Against this background, it is no longer time for false coalition discipline, ladies and gentlemen from the People's Party, for false comrades' fidelity to self-denial, ladies and gentlemen, to the ex-ministers at the SPÖ MP, as is the case with the SPÖ at present, it is no longer the time for parliamentary democracy as it is today trying the government. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Kier! I personally remind you that the same colleague Kier, who today rejects the establishment of an investigation committee, asked for an investigation committee after my speech last Friday, i.e. on Friday a week ago. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh, that's it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's it!]] Today he does not want to know anything about it, so I remind him that he himself has asked for an investigation committee for my speech and today he will reject it in a natural vote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The public has a right to information! The public and Parliament have a right to information, and this has nothing to do with a judicial clarification of the case. The public is concerned, it is rightly alarmed, and it has the parliamentary right to know from us what has happened around this Minister of the Interior and how the political Enlightenment is handled in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44845	The next speech is by Mr Mag. Barmüller before. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that actual corrections are not permitted in such debates, I would just like to point out here that what Mr Stadler said is incorrect: Mr Kier has not called for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have the speech!]] But you convinced me, Mr Stadler. That's my answer! - Thank you. [[The speaker shows the red vote card.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44908	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request has been made by 20 Members, so it is being done in this sense. The ballots to be used are in the shop and bear the name of the deputies, as well as the names "Yes", which are the grey, and "No", which are the pink-colored polls. Only those voting documents are valid. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called. The procedure is known. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to give 'yes' votes to those who vote against 'no' vote. Mrs Reitsamer will start with the name call, and Mrs Ute Applebeck will continue at the appropriate time. I now ask Mrs Reitsamer to start with the name call, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that if Mrs Haidlmayr does not wish to vote himself, an official of the House will vote and cast his vote. This is what we have just decided recently. Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44966	I hereby declare an end to the vote. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The session will be suspended for the necessary time. The sitting was suspended. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 4:13 p.m. and resumed at 4.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e44998	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Valid votes issued: 166, of which "Yes" votes 37, "No" votes 129. The application was therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall include the names of the Members, stating their voting behaviour in the Stenographic Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Tomb, groldish; Haider, Haller, Main; Young; Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Lenser; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Trattner, Trenk; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Anchober, Antoni, Auer, Barmüller, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischer, Freiser, Frieser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kammerlander, Kampichler, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, Langthaler, Leikam, Leiner, Löschnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Nowotny; Oberhaidinger, Onodi, Ollinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, Schieder, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Wabl, Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e45158	I declare that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made for 167/A (E) to 179/A. Questions 447/J to 510/J have also been raised. Finally, a request from the honourable Member is Mag. Stadler was brought to the President of the National Council. Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e45185	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the official minutes of this sitting so that it is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable the immediate implementation of the decisions taken by the National Council. It must be done in the light of such a desire, and I will read the Official Protocol quickly, but accurately: "Dayly rules according to Appendix A. There is no objection to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 and 2. Agenda items 1 and 2: Mr Graf and Mr Comrades put forward the amendments to Supplements 1/1 and 2/1. The President shall have the distribution of amendments to Supplement 1/1 and 2/1 as set out in the key points. 4 GOG. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Ofner and Comrades, put forward a motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/2 EA. Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Deputies Zweytick, Leikam, Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Mr Barmüller and Mr Wabl tabled the motion for a resolution 1/4 EA. Mr Schöggl and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades submit the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA. There is a demand for separate voting supplements I and II/1 and I and II/2. Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades put forward the motions for resolutions in additions 2/2 EA and 2/3 EA. Mr Preisinger and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/4 EA). The Pumberger and Comrades have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/7 EA). Deputies Dr. Povysil and comrades submit the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/8 EA. It is the request of 20 delegates for reading the official protocol of the 17th century. (Applause from the European Democratic Group and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/9 EA). Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades shall submit the motion for a resolution to the European Parliament and to the Council. Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades put forward the motions for resolutions in additions 1/11 EA and 1/12 EA. Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades put forward the motions for resolutions in additions 1/13 EA and 1/14 EA. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Gartlehner and comrades submit amendments to Supplements 1/15 and 1/16 as well as 2/5 and 2/6. Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades submit the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/17 EA. Mr Auer, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/18 EA). Wenitsch and comrades have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/19 EA). Deputies Mag. Stadler and comrades submit the request to set up an investigation committee and call for a debate to be held (Annex E). There is a desire from 20 Members for a national vote, which is also being carried out. The vote will take place at To TO point 1: The draft Federal Financial Act for 1996 and its Annexes, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 96 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in part unanimously, in a separate vote in the second reading, taking account of amendments tabled in additions 1/15 and 1/16, in part by majority and in third reading by majority. The amendment Annex 1/1 is hereby rejected. To TO point 2: The draft Federal Financial Act for 1997 and its Annexes, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 97 of the Supplements, shall be adopted by a partial majority, in separate vote, taking into account amendments to Supplements 2/5 and 2/6 at second reading, in part by majority and in third reading by a majority. The amendment Annex 2/1 is rejected. The motions for resolutions Supplements 1/2 EA, 1/3 EA, 1/5 EA to 1/14 EA, 1/17 EA and 1/19 EA and 2/2 EA to 2/4 EA are rejected. The motions for resolutions Supplements 1/4 EA and 1/18 EA are adopted unanimously. Implementation of the debate on the request for the setting up of a Committee of Inquiry (Annex E). The request for an annex E concerning the Committee of Inquiry shall be rejected in a nominal vote. Valid votes issued: 166, of which yes-voices: 37, No votes: 129." In so far as the text of the Official Protocol, written by the Directorate of Parliament, is concerned. Are objections raised against this version? - That's not the case. This applies to the Official Protocol in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-23-020-XX-NRSITZ-00017_d7e45357	I would also like to point out that, at this meeting, self-employed requests were made for 167/A (E) to 179/A. If my memory does not deceive me, I have already announced it, but for security reasons I add again that the questions 447/J to 510/J have also been raised. Finally, a request from Mr Mag. Stadler to the President of the National Council. If this notification has been made twice, there are at least two identical communications. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She will be taken note of once!]] I call for the next meeting of the National Council immediately following this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
