ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3749	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 27th. Meeting of the National Council and welcome you all. [[At first, only a part of the Members are present in the Chamber.]] I would like to stick to the tradition of opening the national council meetings at the time when they were convened. The official protocols of the 23. Meeting of 22 and 23. May 24th, 25th and 26th respectively. Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Mock, Neugebauer, Anna Huberand Dr. Fuhrmann. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3795	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Mr. Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art Dr. Scholten is represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Krammer. Ms. Dr. Helga Konradwird, Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family Dr. Bartenstein by Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3825	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "Proposal for a Council Directive on the Economic obstacle for Austria in the common market
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3846	I am speaking, Mr Peter, but I will only give him the floor in a few seconds. - I'm interrupting the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3871	I take up the interrupted sitting again and may now be allowed to speak to Mr Magistrate. Peter gives the word. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e3898	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ditz! Between the request to hold this current hour and today you have obviously arrived at us. We consider the fact that we are discussing the trade regulations with you today as a small farewell to an economic minister who has dealt with this question, but who will only be left in the Annals – unfortunately! – that he was a wise, committed man who, however, could not prevail on essential issues of the liberalisation of trade regulations and the conclusion of shops. – I think this is a pity for your departure, Minister of State Dr. Ditz. I would have preferred you to have done something in this respect – except for proposals – in concrete political terms. To the bowl of this course. [[Abg. Wabl: What is that?]] Who doesn't remember the bowl-ditz course? – Austria should heal from this, it should get better. The bowl-dez-course, friend Wabl, was: We need to start 40,000 new ventures – and that by order. Businesses are founded down from the top and not from the bottom; however, there is the realization that only entrepreneurs create productive jobs. It was therefore discussed about a young entrepreneurs' savings, about promotions, about discussions. And when you finally have the young businessman on the fishing, when he finally bites and says: "I want to become independent!" then the bureaucratic obstacle begins: He goes into the traps of bureaucracy, into the fabrications of the trade order. This is about a flower seller who has the HAK-Matura and does not find a right job – always only employment for half a year – and who then says: How about I make myself an independent flower seller? – She goes to her chamber, where she will then be a mandatory member, and asks: What am I supposed to do? – The answer: They must work there for at least two years and carry out tests so that they can distinguish cycles from roses. Ladies and gentlemen! Self-employment creates work, self-employment creates new satisfaction of customer needs – but not bureaucratic, camera barriers to the trade order. Let's sell these flower sellers flowers! What is she supposed to do with it? Why do you want to check if they can sell flowers or not? Ladies and gentlemen! This trade order, which we have today in Austria, which is a valid right, is, after all, a budget from the 19th century. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It has, however, become increasingly rigid in the course of the 1920s, the 1930s and the 1950s, and has gradually become an instrument of protection against competition! Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen if a baker sold a cake – or even "slimmer": if a confectioner sells a chicken! - He can't do that! [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: It's about more than a chicken!]] Mr President, Mr Maderthaner does not tire out with his claims of protection, and he says again and again: You must protect the quality! Mr President, I already know: A confectioner can't sell chickens... [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: I beg you! It's more than a chicken!]] Mr President. These are "arguments" from the deepest 19. 19th century! When to Become They finally wake up and see that we are almost already in the 21st century. Are there centuries? [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A flower dealer – we were already on the topic of florists today – may sell a vase, but the stockerl on which you place the vase, he must not sell! That's weird! This makes a beautiful and modern country like Austria ridiculous internationally! If all of us, who are so valued by Pröll, want to buy a second book today – "The Treasure in the Silver Lake II" – then he can only do so in a commercial and commercially authorized business. [[Rejoicing]] – I could imagine it would be quite fine if he bought it at a gas station: Perhaps Mr Landeshupt would rather come to a second book. Ladies and gentlemen! The same is true in the industry: If one of us rebuilds his bathroom, if one of us rebuilds his kitchen, he needs eight professionals, he has to go to eight masters. "Do not despise me the Masters and honor their art." – He has to go to the tile army, to the mason, to the installer, to the electrician, to the insulator, to the carpenter, to the tapemaker and to the spengler! Ladies and gentlemen, this is all weird, please! Why is there not an entrepreneur who solves all the problems for this one project? We in the economy need to learn not to sell products and offer services, but to solve problems! And the problem of the consumer is – to stick to this example – the new bath, Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! You, Mr Minister, will now have a new apartment – and I hope you will have a nice bath, otherwise you will have to negotiate with eight different professionals! Eight times you have to pay for the construction site, eight times the overheads of the whole company! This means that the bathroom will certainly cost by 20, 30 percent or even 40 percent more. – Reactionary trade regulations prevent entrepreneurs from really acting and being successful in the sense of the customer. Quality, ladies and gentlemen, are not any criteria of the past, but quality, Mr President Maderthaner, is exclusively the fulfilment of customer expectations. The quality concept changes with people, with time. The tests of the past, the tests of 1955, 1958 or 1962 do not guarantee the quality of 1997! Strict liability and responsibility must be borne by entrepreneurs for their customers. We Liberals have already introduced a new commercial law half a year ago, after we have found that the old trade regulation has only one place in this Republic: It belongs to the commercial museum and is stored there like a sacred book of the past. We Liberals have 15th place. A draft of a new commercial law was introduced into Parliament by January, with only more than 56 paragraphs; a slender, in-depth law, an initiative that has it in itself. What you do of the coalition parties is the usual reflex: You make such requests in the committees so to speak, because you are not prepared to negotiate constructive opposition proposals here with us. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wabl.]] We hear, above all, from the Chamber of Commerce' claims rather than arguments. First claim: This is a proven system. – Ladies and gentlemen! In the past it has already proved itself, I think so, only: We want to win the future. We want to create more work in the future, we want to be more productive in the future, we want to offer better services to consumers. The second argument: security. – Of course, this is an essential and serious argument. We must guarantee that the protection of humans, animals and the environment is guaranteed in the event of commercial activity. The only question is whether it is possible to do so through audits and where specific liability provisions should be made with appropriate insurance protection. We have clearly defined that someone who wants to start with little knowledge today as a tile army will, of course, work with a private liability insurance and with a higher entry-level premium than someone who has a master's exam, that is, a high-quality training. This one will have a lower premium. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what Professor Lukesch doesn't understand. This is private business, but he doesn't understand that at his university. That's competition, that's strange to him. I understand. We must at least try to make him understandable. [[Abg. Ing. Madethaner: I haven't heard so much nonsense for a long time! That must not be true!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is about liability insurance, which is clearly responsible to the consumer. If liability cases arise, there is a malus, there is no condition, there is a bonus. – It is very funny to observe how President Madethaner amused. I'm glad you can make a president laugh with little things. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: I must laugh when you speak so much stupidity!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Apprenticeship training is not at all affected. They can continue to make a determination procedure, still saying that apprenticeship training has a master's examination on condition. Not every company is training apprentices. The detection procedure may remain at any time. This is a purely protective claim, Mr President. The Master's exam is not to be abolished. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Who will train people then?]] It is an important, voluntary condition. Anyone who wants to be able to run a business can decide whether to do it or not. If he wants to train apprentices, he must make them. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Maderthaner.]] The fourth claim that President Maderthaner will not tire of giving of himself: the protection of small businesses. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. You didn't understand! Small businesses cannot be protected. Small businesses must be flexible. This is their chance against the big but not the camera protection of the "father", the trade order. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you, Mr President Maderthaner, said several times – almost threateningly –: "We are not anti-dote, with us the quality is in the foreground!" then you should really say that you are concerned with the order of reason. They're about exercising power. They are concerned with having their fingers inside everywhere and determining who is practicing a trade. That's the truth. Tell me – at least everyone knows! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commercial Law is an opportunity to limit discrimination against domestics that we have since Austria became a member of the European Union. Someone who has operated a beach buffet in Portugal for three years can run a big hotel tomorrow in Austria. It is an opportunity for red tape reduction, it is also an opportunity for new employment, because the amount of work in this society is not defined. There is a lot of work that is not done – for the very simple reason, because it cannot be carried out in a commercial way and is therefore pushed into the push. More competition, more ideas, more jobs, more companies by liberalising the trade order! – Sire, give me business freedom!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4061	The opinion was delivered by the Federal Minister. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4082	Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to say that in my house the preliminary work for a major trade reform has been completed and that we can now proceed to political implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We did not simply act arbitrarily, and I also think it is completely wrong to resolve everything and say that we do not need the entire trade order. We did a study and found: There are certain criteria for access to independent activities in each country of Europe. This is necessary to ensure quality. This makes sense to fix competition, but also to ensure quality. That is why I believe that a means must be found. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The EU certainly does not force us to change, even if we have to say so openly. We don't have to change anything. But I recognise very clearly that, in view of the principle of reciprocity in Austrian economic policy, it would not be useful to make it much more difficult for Austrian entrepreneurs to access than a possible foreign entrepreneur in Austria. And that is why we will change these points in a major trade reform. This trade reform has three objectives. First objective: Facilitating access to independent commercial activities. Second objective: Administrative simplification and debureaucratisation measures. Third objective: Promotion of competition. . I would really like to thank the staff of my home for having completed a comprehensive, certainly maximum draft in this respect. This proposal contains seven key regulatory areas. First priority: We believe that access to the craft should be facilitated, but at the same time the Master's exam should be upgraded. However, I would only make them compulsory for certain professions where, for example, there may be a health risk or other things. I would also provide incentives to take the Master's exam because I am convinced that it is a quality seal that can help and will help us to market Austrian products optimally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second priority of this draft is the conversion of bound industries into free trade, i.e. in industry without proof of competence. And it certainly makes sense to do as generously as possible. I believe that there are many new ideas in trade and that we should therefore create a free trade. I believe that tank guards, business consultants, asset consultants are actually activities of a modern service company where free access is useful and quality ensures demand. The third priority is certainly to facilitate access to binding trades for university and technical graduates. If someone has graduated from a university or a vocational college, we must assume that he can run a company. However, there is no guarantee. But I think that would make sense. Fourth priority: full supply possibility. That means: Exercising a trade by a physical person even without providing the necessary proof of competence if a business manager has been appointed in accordance with the legal requirements of business law. Flexibility is also gained. Fifth priority – this is certainly controversial, and one has to discuss it – is the withdrawal of the entrepreneurship examination for graduates of commercial teaching professions as well as for those who have already demonstrated their entrepreneurial ability. I believe that we also need to acknowledge that people themselves are training themselves commercially so that they can rise. And I think proof of this should be sufficient. The sixth priority – it has already been addressed here, and there are so many grotesque situations that only result in activities being carried out no longer in the official economy, but in the grey economy – is the expansion of the scope of commercial law. That is necessary and meaningful. This applies both to craftsmanship and to trade, so that trade can also make assembly and other things more – and also that the baker and the confectioner are not permanently separated in the cake area, so to speak. This is certainly a requirement to be fulfilled – and to be fulfilled. I have nothing against it, either, if gas station owners expand their range of trades, but we also have to release the shop opening times at least for small businesses without employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I have always called for this to be a sensible demand for the ÖVP, because it cannot be the case that gas stations have to change to trading operations, while the trading companies themselves, but for which the new monopoly situation applies, are not allowed to lock up on Sunday. Here we must help to make things move, change, and we should strive to find a more generous solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The seventh focus will include administrative relief and debureaucratisation measures. Connected trade is certainly necessary – gas, water pipelines, electrical technicians – but I believe that the obligation to grant approval needs to be considered and that a change in the scope of crafts is useful. Ladies and gentlemen! To liberalize commercial law is necessary, it makes sense. But I would think that this alone does not create those jobs that we urgently need. I think it is urgently necessary to make progress on liberalisation in other areas too, to check very carefully: What, for example, does our labour inspectorate law look like? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Is it not true that, over time, more and more provisions have been taken up, which no longer bring protection, but only mean more shock and bureaucracy? Therefore, we should have an objective, technical discussion on what other materials are to be worked on in this respect, including in environmental law. In all other countries it has long been recognized that the environmental requirements for an industrial plant cannot be transferred to a small company. It is necessary to differentiate in this area and to verify whether errors have occurred in the first euphoria that prevent young entrepreneurs from finding themselves in the jungle of bureaucracy. In this sense, I wish for all the good and good success for the political deliberations of the proposals, and I am convinced that the discussion can be brought to a good end for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4194	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. All speaking times in this debate are now 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4215	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know, Dr. Ditz, what you would say if I described you as a liberal fig leaf of the EIA's economic policy. But that's you for me. Your statements, since I know you, have always been so hard that I'm trying to replicate you and say, so to speak: You're wrong, you're wrong. – You say it all so beautifully, and I believe that many people in this country have trusted you too. For many, especially for entrepreneurs, you were so to speak, hoping that there would be a force within this government and within the EIA that could control entrepreneurship issues for the better. However, I have always had to point out that there is a clear discrepancy between what You say here and what has been implemented in your group or what has become a law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to make clear today – on the day when Dr. Schüssel will tear this fig leaf: Mr. Dr. Ditz, it is unfortunate that it is not enough to be an opinion or simply to present the right approaches, it is not enough if you say that you have prepared something and that is what it is about to do now. I think you know that implementation will not be possible to that extent or in that quality, as you yourself imagine and wish. For me, this is one of the main reasons for your resignation and resignation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You know from a sad experience, Mr Federal Minister, that your good and forward-looking proposals in this House have been voted by the votes of your own group. They themselves – I've been here already, so it can't be too long ago – said, at the latest before Christmas – I think it was probably Christmas 1995, it could have been in 1994 – there will be no more shop opening times. It was a strawfire. Once said, Mr Höchtl has risen and said: Njet, and a few others from the SPÖ, too, and the thing was shubbled again, it was no longer talked about. And such examples, Minister of State Ditz, unfortunately there are many. For the commercial order: I think that we would not be so far away from each other with our concerns: to facilitate access – even if we want to do so – we want to avoid the pressure – we also want to create incentives for the master system – we also want to do so, that has already emphasized Mr Peter. We are aware of the parallelity between free and bound industries. We also believe that, as soon as human life or animals are affected, there must be a trade and qualification restriction. We also want the business surveys to fall, and we want, as you do, an extension to the extent that there are still committed trade in this area. Of course, Mr Federal Minister, we also call for administrative simplification measures. You have received applause for your suggestion that we must also consider whether the Labour Inspectorate Act and other laws – I remember my favorite law, the Workers' Protection Act – are associated with positive effects in the implementation into practice except with costs at all. We certainly have the obligation to think about whether these laws and regulations are still in practice. But everything we do, and all we're saying here is unbelievable if we don't put the problem at the root. Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. You have to say this again: You will not get rid of the smell of the cameralist, the chamberman in the bad sense of the word, the protector of the possessors, the protector of a small, powerful clique if you do not even get rid of this disbelief – this also applies to you, Mr. Dr. stupid – of your minister, who has now resigned, who will tear your party's larger hole, but continue to act in this disbelief. On the one hand, you step out, Dr. stupid, saying: I will never vote in favour of a Constitution, that is against my conviction. And then you get up here in the plenary and don't even have the courage to go out at least. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the Liberals.]] That, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should be behind the ears on today, on which Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ditz was sitting for the last time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4294	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4316	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Peter, of course we also want the flower dealers to sell flowers, but it is a lot more. We should deal with this matter more intensively. Unfortunately, the current hour is too short to discuss all the problems. Many of your critical views I share, yet one cannot ignore the background, because the trade regulation was and is one of the most essential building blocks of the legal foundation of our entire economy, it was and is the framework for about 1.5 to 1.6 million employees, it was and is ultimately the basis for collective agreements. All of this is necessary for the whole social climate, for a good economic climate in this country. We cannot believe that, if we leave out a number of paragraphs, a healthy competition is already being created and we have already solved the problems. It would be nice if it were that simple. The need for legal permission, ladies and gentlemen, to set up a business, is not only important for entrepreneurs themselves but, logically, also for job creation. A rigorous access to the trade is – in this respect I am entirely of your opinion – an unjustified competition protection in the various industries. Finally, it also concerns the creation of jobs, whether for good or less skilled workers. However, this is primarily a problem for commercial firms in the narrower sense. In the end, we already have easier access to trading in other areas. The Liberal Forum has now put in place a proposal that is, for the first time, quite attractive. I just wonder if all possible consequences have been considered, and I am already looking forward to today's discussion. Because it's very easy to say: We are saving ourselves hundreds, perhaps even thousands of paragraphs and provisions, because we are managing everything in terms of insurance contracts and more. I wonder if you're not making a mistake if you say, Get away with all these paragraphs, we'll settle this in private contracts. I can only excite this now in the short time available to me – without you feeling that too much criticism, but for me one thing is important: What do the Liberal Forum's proposals mean when looking more closely? – Insurance becomes de facto a commercial authority. The general terms and conditions of insurance would largely replace the sections of the trade regulations, which regulate access to trade – we can then think in detail in the discussion. Consumer protection is completely abolished because the corresponding regulatory powers are repealed. This poses a threat to vocational training, since the vocational training law is based on the classification of trade regulations. The draft co-chains with the abolition of paragraphs, but overlooks that these abolished paragraphs would ultimately rise again in the general terms and conditions of insurance and other laws. Does one now have more confidence in the general terms and conditions of insurance or state regulations – whether it be for the entrepreneur, or for the consumer? – These are questions that should be considered in this very attractive proposal. To say it in advance, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum: We Socialists are in favour of a far-reaching, profound reform. In this regard, we share your view. The objectives mentioned by Mr Ditz are also applicable to us. It only raises the question of how to actually implement them in detail. We should not pretend that the previous trade order was just the anti-dote. How else – and you know that as well as we do – would it be to explain that the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular have been able to make export successes in the course of Western enlargement, EEA and EU accession? If the whole system were really so bad, then these successes would not have been possible. I would like to stress once again: Much has to be changed in order to make the necessary flexibility possible because of the rapid change and increased competition we are now facing. In addition, it is necessary – and to do so in particular – for the quality idea to be strengthened. For example, I do not see at all – even if the social prestige of the master businesses and the skilled workers is to be lifted: Why shouldn't a master have free access to university? – Whoever has learned nine years, who has carried out so many tests, can be granted this access as well. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy-Schreider and Dr. stupid.]] We must lift up the social prestige of the craftsmen, the masters must be a seal of quality. But this must not prevent us from at the same time creating easier access to the establishment of commercial businesses, whether it be your example of the gardener or hundreds of others I might mention, where one does not necessarily have to be masters. We demand a reduction, a networking of the various trades, an easier transition to "relative" trades. We believe that, in particular for the operation of smaller businesses, for lighter activities, one must not necessarily be masters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4388	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4409	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main problem in Europe today is the protection of jobs. And if this coalition government has put the creation of businesses at the centre of its efforts, it is because it has recognized that only companies can create jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We therefore need to do everything to promote business start-ups in Austria. I warn you, however, that it is only necessary to abolish or change the rules of commerce, and that new companies will only be shot out of the ground. I know from my daily work that in most cases the question of commercial rights and here, in particular the proof of competence, can be solved and is therefore not at all a problem at all. The overall economic framework is to prevent even entrepreneurs from taking over businesses; they say: We know what we're expecting. No, thank you, we don't. - That's where we have to sit! In principle, however, for many it is only this qualification system, which is often challenged today. It is thought that access to entrepreneurship must be made independent of all qualifications and thus facilitated. Why not just for entrepreneurs and not for other professions, such as teachers, policemen, pastors, lawyers, ski teachers? Yes, even the mother-in-laws today demand a qualification to be part of their group. – Don’t worry, I don’t demand any additional qualifications for politicians. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But it would be necessary!]] It would probably be necessary; yes, you are right. Regardless of the fact that there are regulations for commercial access in almost all EU countries, I ask: Does anyone really believe that today, with small to no conditions in the economy, one can succeed? – With a gold tomb mentality, according to the motto: to keep everyone trying his luck, one will not face the challenges of the European market. I can quote here my party officer Wolfgang Schüssel, who said yesterday in a very different context: The new economy is an economic of know-how. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, this is also evidenced by the recent study by the credit protection association on the causes of insolvency from 1995. More than three-quarters of all insolvency cases of 1995 are due to commercial defaults, only 15 percent of which are, as it were, externally indebted. Unfortunately, we have to take note of that. I do not think that the Liberal Forum's proposal, which is the only prerequisite for commercial start-up, is a serious one. They distrust the audit committees of the commercial authorities, but They trust the insurance company to compensate for this lack of qualification over the amount of the premium. [[Abg. May. Peter: This is market economy!]] This is market economy, but this market economy is a deadly market economy, Mr Peter, and so you will not be able to raise the qualifications of our economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They can cause a consumer to fight for years for his right to finally get his order fulfilled. You can spell American conditions in our system. But I do not think that this system strengthens our competitive position within the European Community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more thing: Your bath problem is not a problem of the trade order, but only a question of qualification. What quality does the entrepreneur have? In this regard, there are so many possibilities today, but sometimes people talk about a color that they don't know at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not intended to restrict competition but to ensure fair competition among qualified persons. There is also a need to change the rules of commerce where they do not make sense. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: For example?]] The list of possibilities is unlimited. However, it is not important to throw the system as a whole overboard, but to adapt it to the challenges of our time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Renovating, not demolating, is therefore the foreign exchange of the People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4510	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4531	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am very glad that we have the opportunity to carry out this current hour during the end or before the end of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I think it is a good thing for us, as an opposition, to appreciate very much Mr Peter's and Mr Hazelsteiner's opinions here, because I believe that the liberalisation of the trade order is unfortunately under way too late. You know very well, Minister Ditz, that in 1992 your predecessor, Minister Schüssel, put a bit more emphasis on it, and that trade regulation has still been subject to restrictions and difficulties. You yourself have heard from your colleagues in the Chamber what arguments you have already put against a reform. They have already launched new insolvency trials, "insolvency audits" are called by Mr. Maderthaner. The fact that the tests are not sufficient should be the reason why we cannot finally reduce insolvency. - That's scurry. It's going in the wrong direction again! And of you, Minister, you hear a social partnership answer: If you once started to do something about the labour inspectorate laws by the SPÖ, we would have done something much earlier in the trade order! – That’s the same behavior pattern as always – again and again! I wonder, When will you learn from it? [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] That is what we criticize liberals, even though we are talking about the EU. We didn't "fit" ourselves. We have decided here in 1992 under Minister for Economic Affairs Schüssel things that develop us away from the EU. The freedom of establishment in Austria, for example, is much greater for EU citizens today than for us Austrians themselves! We will receive additional examinations if it goes after you, gentlemen and ladies from the Chamber! We think that's a nonsense. It is absolutely right that we should go through the liberal proposal there and there. Of course, the qualification and training element has to be taken into account again and again. It is also necessary to see – and this is also stated in this proposal – that it is not possible to release everything. We are far away from a gold grave mentality, Mrs Fekter. But not only can it be liberalized the flower binders and similar areas, but it must already be more... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Scoff Tomb!]] Right! I'm not saying that, I understand. – I think the dog is buried there! This now seeming freedom to trade and to call it no longer concessional, that is also a fin with which we will soon be confronted. But we'll get back to the counter-account history. [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] This counter-account history probably looks like this again: You do something about working time laws, then we will liberalize the flower binders. – This is the snail pace in which we face Europe and the globalisation of the world! I have to say that this can only result in some chamber brains, but never come from entrepreneurs who are actually on the market, not only in Floridsdorf or Simmering, but in a slightly larger market. You're missing it! Faith Give us the following: We are not talking about our mouths here, because we want to lower you, but because we want to bring Austria from the last or last place of the self-employed of 6.3 percent once more a bit further, not just where Italy and Holland are, no, but at least a little bit further! Mrs Fekter, that must be your concern, must it not? – Please tell Mr Puttinger and Mr Maderthaner, they are entrepreneurs, and they are very friendly entrepreneurs. Perhaps they will also be sympathetic politicians by making us eurofit! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Stummful and Dr. Drinkl.]] Now he's finally applauseing, stupid, now we've finally done it! Bravo, stupid! He's joining him. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the whole thing is very sad. I have to tell you, I don't think it's funny at all. The position that you are attesting to the entrepreneur in Austria is a shame! I must tell you this from the Chamber, so I too am a member of the Chamber and pay you a lot of money. It's a shame! You should have made us eurofit and self-employed-fit, but you didn't!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4603	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4624	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating the Liberals on having chosen this subject for the current hour. Of course it's like this: In principle, it is never wrong to choose this as the current subject. At least in the last 30 years you've never been wrong with that. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This has been the OECD's economic report on Austria for some time now. [[The speaker holds a yellow issue in the height]] This is this harmlessly looking booklet in the German translation. The focus of the reporting was on the restrictions on competition in Austria, and a significant part of it was the impact of the trade regulation. This was less about restrictions on competition within the economy, but about market access restrictions. With regard to the ideas for market access restrictions, Austria has done a lot in the past. In this respect, it is not surprising to conclude from international statistics that Austria is a high-priced country. This is the natural consequence of such barriers to entry. Mr Ditz! I have heard your explanations about what can come soon. Of course, it's overshadowed by you – how do you say? Abeundi? What is the right Latin word for that? – unfortunately leave us. I cannot say that I share your optimism that these things will be put into practice in the near future. We have had too many bad experiences for this in the past. I believe that the Liberals have presented a very interesting proposal on the liberalisation of the trade regulations. I am not quite convinced that everything is clear enough in the environmental protection interfaces, but we can still discuss it. In particular, the vague provisions on plant law concern me. In the past, these provisions have partly been misused by the so-called experimental works permits, which then did not face any appeal. In short: We Greens wish us a uniform environmental plant law, as I believe, in broad areas together with industry. This may well be combined with a process concentration and a reduction of bureaucratic rules as long as environmental protection requirements or the rights of the arrants are guaranteed. I've already said: Today's current hour is also updated by the resignation of the competent Federal Minister. I regret this because, over the years, Federal Minister Ditz has given the impression that he has made an tireless effort in this respect, namely liberalisation, in promoting the idea of competition. And of course I'm stocking, because sometime this has a limit, and it seems to be tired over time. But he tried! From his predecessor, Minister Schüssel, I wouldn't say that. This was a very long time Minister of Economic Affairs, and in this whole period has been almost nothing in terms of liberalisation. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: A lot! Minister Schüssel! He has begun to liberalize!]] – Maybe you can explain to me on occasion what this "why" is supposed to be. Now, at least, we are facing a somewhat strange, bizarre situation. Minister Ditz was mainly involved in a budget package that deserves respect – once purely technical –. I do not want to be misunderstood here: It had to be tied up because the budget situation had previously exploded. Nevertheless: This climate-disz package deserves purely technical respect. This task could be fulfilled. But the closing of the shop and the liberalisation of the trade order cannot be dealt with. This gives a strange insight into the political realities of Austria. The Coalition Pact and the Government Declaration promised us thousands, tens of thousands of jobs as well as thousands of new companies, the famous source wave that is about to enter over us. I'm asking: When does she come in? [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager and Wabl.]] – Hundred thousand – I don't know how many of them were anymore. Today we've heard: Please don't overestimate that! There will hardly be any effect on the liberalisation of the trade regulations, my predecessor from the ÖVP has said here at the speaker's desk. – Please, where will the new jobs come from? Where's the Founder's Wave? Why is the liberalisation of the trade regulations already on the increase? – I wish the successor... [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: She's not stocking!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4684	Please take note of the speaking time, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4699	I wish the successor of Mr Ditz in this relationship all the best! However, I am pessimistic against the background of the personality and the qualifications of the divorced Minister of Economic Affairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4729	The next one is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have found very marked words, Mr Drinkl, and you mean that the market economy is deadly, I tell you, that is right if you want to put it in such harsh words: The market economy is the political death of inflexible chamber structures! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But don't be angry with us. The compassion you might want to achieve with this does not go in with the liberals, as our compassion is very limited. It is also significant that you have concluded very well with the words: The position of the EIA is, we must renovate, not demolise. - That's it! If you are talking about a trade reform, then you are actually talking about a new facade for the Chamber of Commerce, but you are not talking about new structures in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who says that?]] [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] I also know where you're taking the money for it, Mr. Deputies. The money for doing so You probably take from those 3.5 billion schillings that you have not yet returned to the companies in Austria, although this sum has been too much removed in connection with external trade promotion. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The victims of this lack of reform, ladies and gentlemen, are the entrepreneurs outside this House every day. Today a very prominent victim is sitting here, this is Mr Ditz, the Federal Minister, who has also been the victim of your own policy here in the house. It would be necessary to take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. This should in fact be the reason for the fact that there is a real willingness to do something new in the context. If, for example, the reform of the trade order is to say that there must be administrative simplification, ladies and gentlemen, then that is already good. But it should be administrative simplification, which in particular means a reduction in the duration of the proceedings, because this is a very crucial problem! – Unfortunately, only a few applauses from the ÖVP ranks, but that does not matter, it is a real beginning, Mr Deputies! [[In the case of the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. Dr. Puttinger and Dr. Drinkl.]] What is the honourable Member's point? Van der Bellen is quite right to say that the trade regulation is an essential part of environmental rights and environmental protection. The plant permits have been addressed. If it is repeatedly claimed that in Austria the high level of environmental protection would be an argument for companies to leave behind the fact that it poses a threat to Austria's economic location, I will tell you: The high environmental standards we have in many areas prevent economic development far less than the bureaucratic procedures associated with it, especially because simply the duration of these procedures cannot be estimated. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are already in time: What is never addressed in the entire discussion is the time factor associated with the bureaucratic effort for entrepreneurs. It is an extreme burden on entrepreneurs and freelancers, ladies and gentlemen, for example, that there is no concentration of examination. It is simply not possible in Austria to achieve an examination concentration. If, for example, the state – which is not directly part of the trade order – is outsourced into businesses, so that the state does not have to do so, then it would be really easy to go here and compress those audits that are still to be carried out in the area of tax law, so that the entrepreneurs in their time when they have to make economics in order to cover the costs, is not bound by them and cannot generate money, but must de facto stand by foot for the state rifle. That, ladies and gentlemen, is simply the wrong access! It is also completely wrong that we should always be overlooked here, and that we should never be told that bureaucracy cannot protect us. We have seen, for example, in the field of genetic engineering that bureaucratic regulations are not at all suitable for protecting anyone. So it is also in the environmental field: You will not protect the health of people, nor will you protect animals or plants by establishing bureaucratic obstacles. What we need instead is a modern environmental liability right. Liability and liability insurance will also play an important role, but this will not be an unusual examination carried out by the board. The same applies to quality. That is a protected argument, and each of us, ladies and gentlemen, knows that! For it is true that those who ultimately have the right to pursue a certain activity and who have the qualifications, do not do the work on the ground! As long as this is the case, it will be necessary to note that the person who suffers a damage – if that happens before – is better off if there is a compulsory liability insurance with which this damage is replaced. This is an access that has a reasonable amount of damage treatment in mind – rather than bureaucratic structures, and not political security of power for a party. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals stand for this to be different at last! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4815	The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! May. Peter's talking about awakening. Dear Lord Mag. Peter! You should address this call to yourself! Mr Mag. Peter surely slept the last reforms, otherwise he could not talk like that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] With half-truths and false representations, he tries to make the Austrian quality poor. We have doubled the number of free trade in the last reform, ladies and gentlemen, including you, Dr. Hazelsteiner. Do you believe that there is more access now? – The reasons for this are elsewhere and not with the tests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner and Mag. Peter.]] Of course, a confectioner may sell chickens. Of course, a baker may sell a cake, he may also produce it, Mr Mag. Peter, only he must carry out an additional examination of the necessary knowledge. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: He must make an additional test! And the exam commissioner is the baker's master! This affects all consumers!]] Why, do you think, could we in Austria develop as well as economically? [[Newly lively calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The quality is essential to us, and this also applies to the cakes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May Peter.]] The statements of Mr Mag. Peter about the flower dealer...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4911	Mr Haselsteiner! I beg you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e4927	The statements about the flower dealer were grotesk at all. We all know and see every day what is sold in a flower shop, all that has to do with floristics in the narrowest or widest sense. But old furniture you can't buy there, you go to an antique shop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That too is quality, that we know that we have specialist shops and no such traffic jams! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria has grown large and strong as an economic country with quality, but not with any less products or services. Quality will continue to be required in the future, especially in the large market. This applies especially to a small country. We can only enforce ourselves with quality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to leave the quality level and the standards, or if you want to break down the quality, Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no job creation but a risk of job security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when there is a real need for even more quality in training, in which quality standards for existing businesses are constantly strengthened, in which quality certificates are distributed, in which consumer protection is further strengthened, you cannot secure the future by reducing quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor can you solve this, as Mr Barmüller, for example, has now done, with insurance and more court proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not the way we want to go. We want to produce quality in Austria in the future and offer quality in the service. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] What we need in order to create new jobs, ladies and gentlemen – and I would ask you to participate in this – is a new spirit of business in the form of a new spirit of entrepreneurship in the principle of giving more attention to the entrepreneur in principle, creating a climate in which the entrepreneurship is enjoying itself! That's essential, you can take part in it. What we also need is a streamlining, debureaucratisation and an acceleration in operating permits. That too is essential. We'll work on this, and I'll ask you to join us. That's the way to the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5011	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. He's got the floor. The speaking time is known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5032	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The trade order is not a sacred cow, which cannot be attacked – but it does not belong to any replacement. I think we should calm this whole discussion down a little and take it in order rather than fall from one extreme to the other. That's definitely wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The trade order is also not isolated. There are a lot of laws and regulations that play with them, and I want to deal with some of them. There is, for example, the problem of apprentices. It is simply important that we develop new thoughts there too. Today, when you talk to those people who have trained apprentices for many years in the chamber, you notice that there is a certain frustration. Less and less, apprentices want to train. This also shows the open teaching places. It is very important to come up with new ideas. And I say something that may not be unproblematic: It is simply necessary for those establishments which do not train apprentices to make an Obolus, and for those establishments which train apprentices to be well trained to meet a training plan which is very difficult and costs money. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] The public hands, the communities, the local workshops, the gardens in the municipalities, the businesses, all take advantage of skilled skilled workers, but do not want to train and not stand up for them. The dual training system is still correct. You'll have to think about it. Another consideration: The higher schools are not so much supported and supported by the state – and there would also be a need to rethink with regard to apprentices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next problem is the question of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! The competition of agriculture becomes increasingly tough to trade – whether in direct marketing, in the ticketing basket and all these things. We've talked about it many times. There must be more tax justice. It cannot be that one has to pay tax fully, the other has to comply fully with social obligations, but the other does not. This leads to distortions of competition, which have become increasingly problematic lately and which are becoming increasingly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism, commerce, but also in commerce, difficulties that are gradually becoming a threat to existence. Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of a business by the son, for example, is a very difficult thing. There are conditions, so that very often young people say: I don't do this at all, I don't take over the operation, because if I have to find out all this now, I'm totally paved for the next decades, and I don't want to do that. It would be important to introduce long deadlines, to look more often – and not to prescribe everything at one time. A new insolvency right would be important, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In the field of insolvency, a dramatic development can be observed. There too, it would be important and necessary to establish a fishing network. To bureaucracy: For example, the board is finally taking up the teaching contracts and simplifying them, because to complete a teaching contract, it soon happened to me as much as the old freight letter at the Bundesbahn; this was just as complicated and difficult. Now we are reformed, and we are going to proceed in time. I would like to say very clearly: If we are now dealing with the trade order, ladies and gentlemen, then it is also the chambers that are involved. There are those who must live with the trade order. It can't be that all those who don't have to live with it are talking! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The chambers have received high approval throughout the federal territory, and this allows them to say something as well. [[New applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We do not want to abolish the old industrial order, but we want to create a modern industrial order for the future, but we should not, as I have said, fall from one extreme to another. I would also like to ask you, Minister of State Dr. Ditz, all the best for your further life course. It was a nice cooperation with you, across the party borders. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5130	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. [[Call the ÖVP:Oye!]] He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5156	Ladies and gentlemen! "Ohe" could be said about the trade order that you have buffered in recent years, because the infinite history of the trade order is following us once again. Alpine dreams follow me when I think about how Mrs Tichy-Schreder acted in the last so-called "reforms" as chairman of the committee responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, that was a disaster! In addition to Madethaner, it is jointly responsible for the fact that almost nothing has gone on in the field of trade regulations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know. Heindl is one of the drivers to put a trade order on the feet of the coalition, which makes it possible to create new entrances, only: So far, he hasn't gotten through with it either. The last "Reform", colleague Maderthaner, was not worth the paper she was printed on. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You haven't read it! That's the problem!]] It was just cosmetic operations. If we were to talk about the confectioners, about the bakers, and President Maderthaner is aging, I would not be surprised if he were to be called the "Punschschrafferl hunter of the nation" from today on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: This is typical of your kind, Mr. Colleague!]] Now, Mr President-in-Office, I can only say that something has to change at last. This is where we have to look at the cost of access to industry in Austria. This is another moment. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Powerful suggestions! That would be good!]] For comparable holdings: In Austria, a GesmbH foundation costs more than 100 000 S, but in Germany 8 000 S, Mr. Maderthaner! And do you know why 100 000 S beats into beech? – Because the chamber is soaking with exorbitant sums. We have to think about whether we could not abolish the so-called enrollment fee, Mr Maderthaner. [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] That is where you, Mr President Maderthaner, did not need to make an appeal to the Christian child, send a letter, but you could come at your own door and cut down the bureaucracy there. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Don't talk about something you don't understand!]] You have been exposed today that you are not prepared to reform, but that you want to continue cementing, Mr Madethaner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this respect, I am not good hope either, for Ditz has gone – or is about to go. Whether this is an accident to talk to Aunt Jolesch, or a blessing, that will prove to be the case. This will have to be answered elsewhere. But it is at least a mosaic of the resignation whether of concrete, which Maderthaner pours out daily, ladies and gentlemen. – But not only Maderthaners, but others are on this terrible road. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. To the trade order itself. We have put forward numerous proposals; They all refused. They were not willing to talk about reforms. And now you've entered the Coalition Convention again, on page 11: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of So one more time one paused off, tore out pages, wrote another year on it, and went on fresh-fromming again. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: He doesn't know anything at all!]] This has gone because he failed. He resigned. He's tired. He's been tripped. I do not wish to regret this or congratulate him on it, but you, Mr Maderthaner, are guilty of it. That is why – I do not want to say – it is Pharisee if you now regret that Ditz is going to question it. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Don't worry about Ditz and me! You wouldn't break your head!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are, admittedly, various schools of thought in relation to the trade order. However, access to industry is undoubtedly facilitated. I also say from personal discussion with those concerned: The path proposed by the Liberal Forum, which is already under discussion today, with this insurance, is a wrong way, ladies and gentlemen, because this would not facilitate access to trade, but would be made more difficult. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Yes! Bravo! That's a wrong way!]] – This is really a disastrous proposal! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals believe that land-based occupations should be created, and that it should also be possible to reduce the charges, to make a proper tax policy related to the trade regulations, and to improve and extend the dual training system, which would also be ruined when the Liberals' proposal was put into effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Although this system has admitted horse feet, it is all better than the state teaching workshops, which would be a consequence of the Liberals' application if this were to be implemented. That's the Bocksfoot number two at your request, Helmut Peter. Therefore, the path of the liberals of the better, namely, to reform...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5297	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5312	Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying: The whole thing should be unbureaucratic – with a view to Europe, because we want to form Europe, but not without If and But, but with Austrian quality.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5342	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5364	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Ditz.]] Mr Bundesminister, you have every reason to be comforted by Mr Haselsteiner, because if that is true, what is in the paper and what is said by the top ÖVP representatives, namely that you, Mr. Ditz, are a very sensitive person, then you must have suffered a terrible deal lately. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He doesn't look like that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: He laughs!]] Minister for Economic Affairs! However, I have also suffered a little during your remarks here. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would have expected you not only to talk about red tape in connection with the trade regulations, because, after all, plant law is the most important environmental law at all. There is an approach that the Liberals have put forward in their request – if this is over, then it will be apparent in the negotiations – namely, to reduce bureaucracy, to make simplifications, but on the other hand to improve liability, to increase consumer protection. But you did not say a word about this, Mr. Federal Minister. The thought of this is the following – and there has become Her predecessor "excellent" –: We have here in 1988 introduced one of the most extensive legislative proposals that the Greens have ever drawn up, in terms of environmental liability law. However, this has not been negotiated, as most opposition applications have not. However, there was, of course, a working group here in the Ministry of Justice. We've been involved because we've been thinking: Wonderfully, our request will be accepted to carry out on the one hand a aggregation of these difficult materials and, on the other hand, the personal protection provisions to improve liability. Until 1991 the Ministry of Justice was negotiating, and then your predecessor, the great taxpayer of the Tussel-Diz course, said: no! – And so Michalek went with his wonderful suggestions; such a law did not come. Ladies and gentlemen! President Maderthaner here tells us that this would be a protection for small and medium-sized enterprises. – Look Mr Maderthaner, what is it like with the protection? Where are the many small businesses, where are the many small local suppliers? - They've all forgotten you! They have all delivered the large chains that have other infrastructure costs – and that increase the conditions for the others. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There are no more restrictions!]] Mrs Fekter, your commercial law has long failed! Your commercial law has long been superfluous! You failed in this important thing. The allegation that this is only more about protection provisions for your board is really justified. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Maderthaner! I have made the effort to look in connection with the concession in the hospitality industry: How is that in Austria? If you don't have a concession, you pick up the paper, look at the heading "Various" and read: Concession to forgive, lease and and and. Then you have to find social structures to make it work. - That's your "protection"! A friend who has been working in Munich for ten years said to me: You, I became unemployed, I was a printer, I want to continue my education now, I signed up for a course at the Munich Chamber of Commerce, don't you want to come out too? – I said: very interesting! How long does that take? - One day, it was the answer. I left, sent a fax first, signed in. I have been told that I must be there on time at 9 a.m.; five after nine I am not allowed to enter. I was sitting there for hours, listening to lawyers, hygienics, accountants, people from all kinds of areas relevant in the hospitality industry. At 4 p.m. I made a test – and at 5 p.m. I already had a look in my hand, EU-fit, with a stamp mark of the Chamber of Commerce Munich on it, and can open a restaurant business all over Germany. – These are the "limitations" you have in this regard in Germany. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Can you read a balance sheet?]] Now I've been thinking: That can't be! Mr. Maderthaner, I thought: That can't be! I asked those in charge in the Chamber of Commerce: Tell me, have you noticed a significant difference between those farmers who have such a reputation or those who may have taken the difficult concession test?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5456	Mr Wabl, please take note of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5489	The person responsible for this course of the German Chamber of Commerce said: Do you know whether with concession exam or without: If one is a pig, he remains one, and if he is a good host host, he is a good host!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5519	I don't have any further words. This concludes the current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5540	I say that the Fifth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been duplicated and distributed to all Members. As for the items obtained and their allocation, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room, however, provided that the proposal was made to me not to assign the Convention on money laundering, the investigation, confiscation and collection of proceeds from crime and declarations (127 of the supplements) to the Committee on Justice but to the Committee on Health. Is there any opposition against these allocations? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5813	MEPs Dr. Pumberger and Comrades have asked for urgent consideration of the written question referred to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs concerning "sickness" in the agenda 700/J by Dr. Pumberger and colleagues at the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. The The aim is to carry out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time. I therefore propose that this urgent question be dealt with before 4 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5837	I would also like to point out before the entry into the agenda that Mrs Magistrate is speaking. Stoisits has requested that the Constitutional Committee report to Member Dr Petrovic and Comrades on the Novelle Convention on Reference Law on the application 109/A for a period of until 9. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover In addition, there is a duly justified desire to have a brief debate on this deadline request. This short debate will take place after the urgent request has just been made. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place at the end of this debate. I would also like to point out that the honourable Member has the power to do so. Mr Stadler asked the Constitutional Committee to report to Parliament on the 105/A motion for a resolution. Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the referee law and other laws, a period of time until 11. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating Here too, there is a proper desire to have a short debate. This brief debate will take place after completion of the urgent request or the brief debate which has just been mentioned. The vote on the request will also take place after the end of this debate. Finally, Mr Magistrate also has power. Peter requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 101/A concerning contract law and civil service law be limited to the 11th. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative An additional debate was not required. This request for a deadline will therefore be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5874	As regards the actual agenda of today's meeting, it is in order to be able to negotiate items 11 to 20, in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to withdraw from the 24 hour period of the Committee's reports. These are the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the government templates. 103 of the supplements: Additional Agreements to the Agreement with Canada (178 of the Supplements) and 104 of the supplements: Additional Agreements to the Agreement with the United States of America (179 of the Supplements) – both in the field of social security – and 105 of the supplements: Agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany (180 of the Supplements), 118 and 118 of the supplements: Termination of the Agreement between Austria and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (181 of the Supplements), 119 and 119 of the supplements: Termination of the Agreement with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (182 of the Supplements) between Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, further 120 and 120 of the supplements: Termination of the Agreement between Austria and the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in (183 of the Supplements), 121 and 121 of the supplements: termination of the Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia (184 of the Supplements), 122 and 122 of the supplements: termination of the Agreement with the Turkish Republic (185 of the Supplements), 123 and 123 of the supplements: termination of the Agreement with the Tunisian Republic (186 of the Supplements) and 124 and 124 of the supplements: Termination of the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia (187 of the Supplements) – all about social security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, with the derogation from the deadline for the Committee's reports, give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5942	Let's go into the agenda. It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 8, 10 to 20 as well as 22 to 25 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e5969	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates on the whole agenda was reached in the Presidential Conference. Accordingly, for the joint debate on points 1 to 8, for the debate on item 9 and for the joint debate on points 10 to 20, a block speaking time of a total of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speeches are made: SPÖ 135, ÖVP 126, Freeman 117, Liberal Forum and Greens per 81 minutes. For the debate on item 21, a maximum of two speakers per group with a speaking time of 15 minutes for the first speaker and 10 minutes for the second speaker was established. The joint debate on agenda items 22 to 25 is to be limited to 2 'Vienna hours', so that speaking times are as follows: SPÖ 30, ÖVP 28, Free 26 Liberals and Greens each 18 minutes. Are there any objections to these proposals? – That's not the case. Then it is one-bright and only quite with the required two-thirds majority so decided. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-4 of the Supplements) on the social situation 1994 (157 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 8/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the re-definition of self-employed employment and the harmonisation of all pension rights (158 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 55/A (E) by Mr Jörg Haider and others on comprehensive measures against rising unemployment (159 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 103/A by Mr Mag. Helmut Peterand comrades concerning a federal law amending the holiday law (160 of the supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 25/A by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on a Federal Act establishing the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons (BEinstG) of 11 December 1990. ==References== No. 22/1970, as last amended by the BGBl. No. 27/1994, amended (161 of the supplements) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-15 of the Supplements) on the activities of the Labour Inspectorate in 1994 (162 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Government (III-5 of the Supplements) on the Conventions adopted at the International Labour Conference (No. 174) on the prevention of industrial disturbances and recommendation (No. 181) concerning the same subject matter (163 of the supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 9/A (E) by Dr Volker Kierund Comrades on the restructuring of family transfers (165 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6123	We now come to points 1 to 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-4 of the Supplements) on the social situation in 1994 (157 of the Supplements) and on applications 8/A (E) by Dr Kier and Comrades on the re-definition of self-employed work and the harmonisation of all pension rights (158 of the supplements), 55/A (E) by Dr Haider and others on comprehensive measures against rising unemployment (159 of the supplements), 103/A by Mr Mag. Peter and comrades concerning a federal law amending the holiday law (160 of the supplements) and 25/A by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons (161 of the Supplements), on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs (III-15 of the Supplements) on the activity of labour inspection in 1994 (162 of the Supplements), the report of the Federal Government (III-5 of the Supplements) on the Conventions adopted at the International Labour Conference (No. 174) on the prevention of industrial disturbances and recommendation (No. 181) concerning the same subject matter (163 of the supplements) and on application 9/A (E) by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on the restructuring of transfers in the family sector (165 of the supplements). The rapporteur on points 1 to 5 is Mrs Pittermann. I can ask her to initiate the deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6177	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the social situation in 1994 (III-4 of the supplements). In addition to a foreword from the Federal Minister, the social policy preview and a summary, the present report contains the sections Social report, activities of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Contributions from the interest groups. Statistical data on the labour market situation, social security and income distribution are included in a separate dataset. It also contains an annex on the social budget, disability and hospital financing. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs at its meeting on 29 March. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. After a detailed debate, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs voted by a majority to recommend that the National Council take note of the report. As a result of its opinion, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council take note of the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the social situation in 1994 (III-4 of the Supplements). I shall also present the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on four further requests: the request by Dr Volker Kierund comrades on the re-definition of self-employed work and the harmonisation of all pension rights [8/A (E)], Dr. Jörg Haiderand comrades' request concerning comprehensive measures against rising unemployment [55/A (E)] – this motion for a resolution was tabled on 31 December. Introduced in the National Council on 3 March 1996; Mr Mag. Helmut Peterand comrades concerning the renewal of the holiday law (103/A) – this initiative proposal was submitted on 27 July. Introduced in the National Council on 1 February 1996 – Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund's request to comrades concerning a federal law amending the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons (25/A) - this proposal for an initiative was adopted on 30 July. ==References====External links== The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the amendments which had been put forward at its meeting on 29 October. Negotiations were held in May 1996 and debated in detail. When the vote was taken, there were no majority of the amendments. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council should take note of the relevant reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6259	I thank you for reporting on points 1 to 5. On point 6, Mrs Silhavy reports. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6277	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the activity of labour inspection in 1994 (III-15 of the Supplements). According to § 10 para. 1 of the Labour Inspection Act 1974, BGBl. No. 143, the labour inspectorates shall report to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs about their activities and their perceptions in the field of worker protection for each calendar year. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the present report at its meeting on 29 October. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore requests that the National Council take note of the report of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the activity of the labour inspection in 1994 (III-15 of the Supplements).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6305	Thank you, rapporteur. I can now ask colleagues Dr. Drinkl for the two remaining reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Government on the 1980s. Conventions adopted at the International Labour Conference (No. 174) on the prevention of industrial disturbances and recommendation (No. 181) on the same subject (III-5 of the supplements). The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the present report at its meeting on 29 October. In May 1996, the Council decided, by a majority vote, to recommend the adoption of the report to the National Council. As a result of its opinion, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council should consider the report submitted by the Federal Government on the 80th anniversary. Conventions adopted at the International Labour Conference (No. 174) on the prevention of industrial disturbances and recommendation (No. 181) on the same subject (III-5 of the Supplements). I shall also report to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request from Mr Volker Kierund comrades on the restructuring of family transfers [9/A(E)]. Mr Volker Kier, Mr Klara Motter and Mr Comrades have tabled this motion for a resolution on 15. ==References====External links== At its meeting on 29 October the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the present proposal [9/A(E)]. In the course of the negotiations in May 1996, it was decided by majority that the application in question should be examined in the Committee on Family Affairs for reasons of responsibility. As a result of its opinion, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council should take note of the present report. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6377	Thank you. This concludes the reporting process. The time taken to speak is known. I have the first speech by Mr Dr. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6405	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The agenda already points out that a large number of material initiatives must be dealt with, which unfortunately did not reach the agreement of the government parties, although everyone must be clear - in particular you, Federal Minister for Social Affairs - that the social state is in a profound change and that there is an urgent need for action in view of the major problems which cannot be denied. One of the major problems is certainly the growing unemployment in our country. Unemployment has continued to rise compared with the previous year, despite all the beauties you have recently published in press releases. There are other job losses compared to 1995. On the one hand, as you yourself have announced in an issue, Mr. Federal Minister, it is possible to find a break in the apprenticeships for young people, and there are about 35 percent less available apprenticeships in this year compared to the previous year. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of job seekers of more than 20 percent. All of this is why, Mr Federal Minister, you still do not seem to be working. Also, the warning comments made by economic researchers do not cause you to take action. For example, a few weeks ago, Professor Felder, the head of the Institute for Higher Studies, urged you to put the pillars of the Generational Treaty and thus to put the pension system on a new basis, because in the long term, he believes, in Austria, that it would be expected to have a stronger levelling of state pensions. This is a very dramatic situation: if those who are now under 50 and pay the contributions for a very comfortable pension, the economist is already saying that, despite the high contributions, they would no longer get into the enjoyment of this pension provided by them. Is all this still not a reason for you to carry out such fundamental reforms in this country rather than to see how a new wave of early retirements is reversing your forecasts and expectations? – The Director-General of the Austrian Federal Railways, who is apparently overwhelmed, sends everyone who is ready to go to the early retirement. For example, the State is rehabilitating the problems of the ÖBB because the Director-General is unable to do so. Is this your model that you have tried to introduce to us here in Parliament? You're not coming out of this mess anymore, and I'm telling you quite openly: They will finally have to respond to the fundamental reforms of this social state, instead of playing fire brigade behind the front and saying: If it burns somewhere, I'll erase! Unfortunately, they do so most of the time with inadequate means. One example of this is the model you introduced in the employment of older workers, because there is a malus when workers over 50 years of age are terminated. In this way you have done nothing but quit with 49 now and no more with 50 if the company wants to relieve itself of its labour costs. In addition, you have not considered that this means that women get their hand kiss quite massively, because women who usually earn less income for the same activity are cheaper, and for women, the malus is less. – All these are things where I say, you didn’t even delete the fire that exists, but you have increased the accident even more instead of bringing solutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has been a little out of control for you, Mr Federal Minister, but also for the social state in its forms of activity. You yourself philosophise, you will by law ensure that the state of health financing, the payment of compensation in the state of illness is guaranteed in all cases for one year. At the same time, the health insurance companies tell you: Minister, you can do whatever you want, we'll lower it now! The Wiener Landeskrankenkasse in its financing need reduces from 78 weeks to 26 weeks. But the Minister is talking about a legal arrangement, of which he wants to extend to a year – knowing that the funds for which he has a supervisory right, for which he is directly responsible as a minister, are facing a huge pleite; – with more than 3.5 billion schilling is given an unfinanced need – knowing that the benefits for the workers who are insured there are now shortened, but no one is thinking about it – even you, Mr Bundesminister – once intervene and ask: Why do we actually pay 2.2 billion schilling for special pension rights for employees and staff working there in the Austrian social security system? Why Grab hold Don't you use it instead of shortening the benefits for the hard-working people of this republic? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why don't you find any answers to Debakel II at the health insurances from 1. January 1997 threatens? The VAT system is changing there. The conversion of a real exemption from VAT into an incorrect exemption of VAT means that, according to the forecast accounts of the main social security institution, the health insurance companies can no longer claim pre-tax deductions that they will have to repay pre-tax deductions for building investments they have made. This represents a sum of about 4 billion schilling of additional financing needs next year. Federal Minister! I mean, it's really time to act. They can't sit around for months and pretend to be like all of this going on again. The imaginativeness with which social policy is being made in this country today, by saying: If we no longer have money, then we reduce the benefits or increase the contributions!, is extremely wrong, because with it you ruin the last motivation in our medium-sized economy to hire people and want to carry entrepreneurial risk. You will no longer be able to save yourself from increases in contributions, but you will have to reform the structures of this social state at last! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is this structural reform, Mr. Federal Minister, if you believe on the one hand that all citizens in Austria have a huge burden package and the money is missing in the health insurance funds – you are going to have 360 million schillings for financing this year – but on the other hand, is building a new administration building around 300 million schillings? But as a supervisory body, you sit there and watch and say: Let us think whether we can't increase the contributions or cut down some benefits that the sick will have to finance itself! - You're doing that all the time. Ongoing benefits, which have so far financed the local health telephone, are reduced or discontinued because the same ones are no longer affected by the financing. Even the organization from which you come, namely the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, feels that. It said about the Carinthian ÖGB President Unterrieder a few days ago: "The measure is full!" – I can’t keep this from you because this is a really unlikely dramatic statement: "The measure is full!", said the ÖGB chief of Carinthia. The Trade Union Confederation had contributed to the savings package because the government had promised improvements on the labour market. However, practice looks different and imposes unilateral burdens on workers. That's interesting! Your own trade union organization says: The measure is full, and it announces a hot summer. We have promised her something if she is silent in the load package, but that is not the case either. This is so typical of the government of Vranitzky: It is explained: We're doing everything! – and a few weeks later, when everyone played, it looks quite different again. A few days ago, Mr. Vergestnich, President of the Trade Union Confederation, came to the "Kurier". He said the government should do more for job creation. . Today he no longer participates in the debate to avoid the embarrassment of having to read the Levites to this government once because she has not been willing to comply with what she has promised for months. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – But a few days ago, Mr. Vergestnich said: So far, the government's employment has only been a secondary issue. At the last ECOFIN summit – a meeting of EU Finance Ministers – jobs were once again only a secondary issue, the ÖGB President continued. But in Austria I always hear it differently: They fight for every job, one "offensive" chases the other, the government always announces offensive: an employment offensive, a social offensive, an apprenticeship offensive, a cost reduction offensive, a job offensive. I'm just wondering: Where is she, this offensive you announced? Where did they all stay, these offensives? Tell us very openly how you want to wage the fight against unemployment! Tell us very openly where you want to take the money to achieve a dynamic economy! Tell us openly where your founding initiatives are! Where are these many young entrepreneurs? Where is the motivation to create new jobs? – All of this remains in the dark. Except for the announcement of offensives, nothing will happen at all. In the Salzburger Nachrichten, Roland Barazon therefore wrote: The state should set many offensives that deserve this designation. Above all, the economy would have to be relieved so that it could have more money at its disposal to cope with the crisis described. In any case, the savings package is the opposite. - Quote. That is the reality, and that is why I ask you, Minister of State: How will you really cope with the increasingly dramatic situation? We are discussing the 1994 Social Report, which is no longer up-to-date at all. The government simply rejects all the opposition parties' requests concerning structural reform, the reform of the social state, the creation of more jobs, the fight against unemployment, but has no alternative. Yes, it would not be reasonable to talk about whether we should not introduce a tax-legislative allowance for apprenticeship training so that businesses are prepared to enable our young people to return to vocational training. It is much cheaper to finance than the unemployed! That is why our initiative to combat unemployment, which we say: If a person has an employment permit in a farm which is made for the seasonal operation and is willing to be transferred to a worse place until then, at least he should not be disadvantaged. Then the difference between unemployment benefit and what he earns is to be given to him, and what he deserves in the mean season is not to be fully counted on unemployment aid. Then you save yourself unemployment money, create additional employment effects, and at the same time you have relieved the labour market. What prevents you from finally taking up such a reasonable proposal and thereby contributing to combating unemployment? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What prevents you, Mr Federal Minister, from working in other areas and saying, as we have stated in our request, that someone who does not try to find a job, as in Switzerland, is referring to degressive unemployment benefit? Then he will try to find a job. And those who strive should also have benefits from it. Who's bothering you? [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Who will control this?]] Which means: Who'll control that? – You control everything in this state! All of this always raises the question of control. Free yourself from the idea that these people are animals that you must lead on the leash in the social state! Free yourself from it! If you assume that the majority of the Austrians are decent, are willing to work and are righteous – then you do not need to control! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, the following will happen: Without appropriate offensive measures to relieve the economy and fight against unemployment, They have announced that only the savings and burden package will have a further negative effect on the additional unemployed. If you calculate this – I have had this calculated by a business and tax advisor –: An average Austrian medium-sized company with 5 million Schilling annual turnover – 700 000 S is roughly the profit – pays only because of the loads resulting from the removal of the loss premium, from the removal of the advantage to the company's car, and due to the new energy tax approximately 30 000 S per month. 30,000 S! If you convert this now, Mr Social Minister – you are a very fifty social politician and you know it very well –: 30 000 S amounts to about the wage costs of an average employee, including the additional wage costs. This is an income of 16 000, 17 000 S, plus additional wage costs is about 30 000 S. In other words, many medium-sized plants draw the consequence from this load and say: If the government "bumps up" a new energy tax to me without at the same time discharge measures, more burdens "bumps me up", I – I currently have 11 employees – will just cut one down and make it available to the state. Then I'll have my money back inside and work with the ten who'll have to work a little more. Do you want thousands of businesses to react that way? – The trend is in this direction: every year a lot more socket unemployment! This is actually the end of social democracy, because it has resigned in the fight against unemployment. But that can't be! We must become offensive in order to create jobs, to reduce unemployment in order to make a future in Austria possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So where are they, the offensives? There are many proposals that have been made to reduce additional labour costs and labour costs. Why isn't that happening? What about the red tape? It was touching when Chamber President Maderthaner said today: There must be a form of bureaucrats, there must be an acceleration of procedures! Who, then, prevents this government from finally doing that? In almost all the federal states, they are the trade and economic agents of the ÖVP. Who prevents you from implementing these reforms? They put all the presidents in the Chambers of Commerce. Who will prevent you from finally abandoning the fact that the Chambers will vote in favour of each concession, even when they are admitted to the concession test? In fact, the Board also decides to consider the conditions for admission to the concession test. – Let the people do a test if they want to do it; they do pay for it anyway. But there too the chamber mixes in! These are things that you should eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, instead of threshing empty straw here and not taking any action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what about the equal treatment of our businesses? – We still live in Austria from medium-sized entrepreneurship, which ensures the mass of jobs. The great ones are cashing the subsidies on us, and then they re-evaluate when they have consumed the subsidies. The little ones still pay taxes today, which is detectable. The large companies in Austria, whether they are in Austrian hands or not, have for a long time stopped paying taxes in relation to what they are paying for subsidies and subsidies. The small company, on the other hand, raises taxes and guarantees more than 80 percent of all jobs in our country. And how do you help the little one now? – We made an operation visit with a baker. This baker produces for a large catchment area, up to Vienna; he is native to Burgenland. A good boy! He employs 30 people, including many women. He says: We have to work nine hours a day from Monday to Thursday. I have to be able to deliver my products, because I have my dates. All in operation agree – only the labour inspector does not. The Labour Inspector will come and say: Break of the working time law!, for the first time 50 000 S penalty. Now he was there the second time, and again: Breaking the Working Time Act! - 240 000 S. Punishment. And the next time he comes, the penalty will be 1.5 million schilling. How is this to be achieved by a medium-sized company, which, in an economically weak region, secures permanent jobs for 30, 40 people? Why is he punished, and why, for example, can BMW, Siemens or Philips, just because they are large and influential, disregard the working time law? At the operational level, everything is "packed out", but the small company must understand the hardness of a completely unpracticable law on working time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where are the measures to secure jobs, for example, in the fight against the coup? There is a so-called Luxembourg model. I read again and again that any Red and Black politicians now want to apply the Luxembourg model. We requested this at the special meeting and said: Let us give those who build their own homes and dwellings in funded housing by means of promotion when they use professionals when they use the commercial business when they are legally using craftsmen, a bonus of 15 percent VAT refund for each proven business performance! This ensures jobs, guarantees the legality, and the measure we propose is still cheaper than the coup, the 150 billion Schilling illegal sales in the grey area. This alone requires the State to purchase 50 billion schilling of tax and tax losses per year. All this is no longer very logical what you are doing, and I therefore ask you, Minister of State: Where's your concept? How do you finally want to get out of this dilemma? Where will you at last become active in the form of public contracts looking for Austrian workers to be employed? It is not a piece of fame in the history of Austria's employment policy, if you promote a new farm in Burgenland, in Heiligenkreuz, which is nevertheless being promoted in a wrong direction with EU funds, and then there are 60 Portuguese construction workers in the assembly – the VÖEST has the task – among the 70 workers! Now I'm asking You really are: What, then, do we still award public contracts? So that we send the Austrian stamps, but the Portuguese are busy with us? – I have nothing against Portuguese, but we have the responsibility for the Austrians to pay taxes here for those people who live here and have their families here. For these people we have politics to make! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what is the consequence of all of this? – The consequence of all these unresolved problems, Mr Federal Minister, is that, because they have such high costs, they solve the problems by reducing labour costs. But labour cost reduction means either freeing people, canceling people – or saying no pay for the people, and that is already going on and on. This is going on and given by the overtime regulation. Yes Believe Do you really think that one who deserves 15,000, 16,000 s and does a few overtime hours is already one of the rich in this republic? – Let him do a few overtimes! Tax the overtimes so that the farms can be more flexible! Then people have income, then consumption will work accordingly. But not to abolish everything, to move over a line, and to say: We need the money now, and now the state has to tighten the belt with all its citizens! - It won't work. This is also going on and there is a building where people are now being removed. The separation allowance for those who do not come home for days, the great separation, is simply deleted. The direct and chord allowances are simply deleted, although they are agreed in the collective agreement, although this is contained in the operating agreements. I don't hear from the union. The gentlemen will act at the trade union days – like Mr Nürnberger – and say: We will not allow a wage ban, but then they will be silent in view of what is actually happening. They keep silent about the daily reports of how people are being "assembled" in the businesses, how components of wages are taken away from them. The union is silent because it is glad that you somehow get over the rounds. We will not be involved in this kind of sluggish absence of income, but we will show it because we believe that the person who does something in this country should also have the opportunity to earn something. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But those who do not comply with the rules will be responsible accordingly. All this has moved us, Mr Federal Minister, to really ask you to finally put a concept on the table. It is not true that the Austrians would be so wealthy. There are certainly many who live very well, but at the same time we also have 330 000 people who – despite employment! – don't even earn 8,000 s. Look Once you reach out to the different companies: For example, electric companies that manufacture cable sets for the automotive industry, where more than 1,000 women are active, which, although they work on layers, do not even earn 9 000 s. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: That's not true!]] – Take a trip to Packard Electric to Burgenland! I recommend you make an operational visit there once. These women don't even deserve 9 000 s – despite shift operations, despite considerable loads to which they are exposed. Please, don't always say: That's not true!, but go and look at it once if you haven't done a local eye-catching before! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The savings package is taxing these women, ladies and gentlemen. What do you think of a woman who deserves 9 000 s and now, with 1. June, a new energy tax will be "brown up"? This is what they feel at the monthly costs: rent, operating costs in their own home. What do you think people think if you now "room down" something in the family allowance if you deteriorate the benefits for the families? These people meet you, but that's something that happened to you with your entire savings package: It is the wrong-doers! You cut the pocket money for the disabled – but you don't have the size, perhaps even the multiple earners also ask to check out in this house. There are many double and triple earners sitting in there, and for that people have no understanding anymore. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, but let's do it once! Let us make it clear that officials who go into the politics that is in Parliament must be chosen in the absence of the references. That is the only solution that is credible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can be no double earnings to have worked once. This is a false symmetry, which arises: In Parliament, people who once work earn two or three times, and at the same time, we make laws on the basis of which the Austrians have to work three times so that they can live once. That is an Americanization of the system, and that is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it would be time to go in there as well. We have also made a further priority in our own initiative. Federal Minister! In this respect, too, you – like a political oyster – are closed and do not know what you should do. I am referring to the question of foreign policy. We have said in our proposal that we are in favour of reducing the number of foreigners in employment until the high unemployment rate in Austria is below 5 per cent. The Federal Minister for Social Affairs is sitting there, looking at one – but he doesn't do anything, he doesn't mind. But the request is rejected, and the "Auster" is sitting there and is not politically operational. It is not particularly capable of action where danger is in delay. Risk in delay is, for example, what is happening to the equality of Turkish citizens with EU citizens. You haven't been able to say how this really works until today. But you know very well that Austria has accepted accession to the EU – and this is the common sense that this has been accepted in the negotiations at all – that the 1980 agreement on the decisions of the European Commission with Turkey will also enter into force with us, according to which, when Turkish citizens are employed in an EU country for more than three years, EU citizens are equal: social policy, economic and family law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: One has disputed it!]] And now we have an interesting situation. We have 40 000 Turkish guest workers in Austria alone, who have been with us for more than three years, i.e. they are actually out of the quota. But to this day you haven't lowered the quota! But this is our demand, because if they are equal to EU citizens, then you have the damn obligation to reduce the quota immediately by these 40 000. Otherwise, you will get even more from abroad, although we have a high level of unemployment in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must also give us an answer: What does it look like if the Turks are legally equal to EU citizens? Then, according to our understanding of the agreement and the decisions of the European Commission, there is nothing else but that family succession can be organized without contradiction. That is to say, the threat of Mrs Ambassador and Turkey is not so important at all. They can just come, they can send 25 000 Turkish children, then the Mutti also comes along – and then it's 50 000. And after Turkish families are usually not one-child families, but multi-child families, we will not have a child, but there will be three and four children. Then there will be 100 000 and 120 000, perhaps 150 000 as well – and there you have to explain to me how you want to finance all of this. A savings package is imposed on the Austrians, and they say: Unfortunately, the social state cannot afford anything. Family allowances are reduced, birth allowances are deleted, as are the care allowance. Many things are saved, the families are deleted because the state no longer has money. Mrs Ederer already philosophises in the direction of whether we should not make an exception in the co-insurance of the spouses, whether they should not pay for them themselves. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] And then the same people who say, We have no money, thousands of people from abroad who are also insured. Or do you believe, Mr Federal Minister, that a Turkish family with its children, if they go to Austria, will not have to be insured? – Of course, they have to be insured! Of course they must be insured! Explain to me where you want to take the 400 million schillings that will cause this in addition to co-insurance costs! That is why we say quite openly to you: They have the obligation to enter into negotiations with the EU on the modification of this agreement between Turkey and the EU because, under the current conditions of the labour market in Europe – almost 20 million people are unemployed – it is simply unsocial to the Europeans or the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have the obligation to reduce the quota to the extent that Turkish citizens are automatically treated as EU citizens. And thirdly, you have the obligation to also think about meeting a further reduction in the number of guest workers, especially the quota of those guest workers who are only short in Austria, but who have no chance on the labour market so that we do not discriminate against those who have been there for a long time and so that we try to reduce the hundreds of thousands of foreign workers who are already unemployed – 36 000 unemployed foreigners are currently in Austria. It would be much easier to say: We pay everyone who returns to his home country and builds up a living there for a year unemployment, because it is cheaper for us in the medium term than to finance foreigners as unemployed in Austria, while they could do important building work in their home country. In our view, this would be a step you would have to consider in order to get away from the high level of foreign employment and not the illusions of the Lord. One and the other, Mr Khol, who has organized an adventurous additional wave of immigration for our country. But they have already got fracks out anyway because they notice that the situation in practice is another. I assume at least that Dr. Khol, who read powerful clubs, has studied in depth the statement of the Vorarlberg Government, which, like our liberals, expresses that the command of the hour is a stop from immigration, an absolute stop to immigration. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Caspar Khol!]] First, we must provide those who live here with sufficient work and social conditions before we open borders and accept new immigrations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the dual nature of this policy. This "Caspar Khol" wanted to put a cuckoo egg in the nest, a cuckoo first order. It is said that there would be no labour force at all, but only family members. – The fact that the 24 000 will be in the next four to five years, and that more than 100 000 will move further from non-EU countries, has shamefully kept you silent. But that also means, more kindergartens, more apartments will be necessary, that is, more schooling. I'm curious about how to cover it. The union, Mrs Schmidleithner says, is annoyed by the fact that 220 000 kindergartens are missing – but we are still bringing in a few thousand foreign children who also need kindergartens! 4.3 billion schillings are spent on foreign teachers alone in compulsory education. Do you want to increase this amount again? At the same time, however, you feel that the Austrian children are self-serving and shorten the lessons because we are supposed to have no more money to be able to afford the teachers. Thousands of people are waiting for an apartment in Austria, but we are opening the borders, and new families are coming to Austria, for which we have no apartments and which will then compete for the apartments. The mayor of Vienna, Häupl, said the truth in a light moment: There must be a decent foreign policy. – This allows the conclusion that: You have so far made an unfair foreign policy and a decent foreign policy is also needed for you to correct the course. Ladies and gentlemen! In Vienna too, integration policy must become decent. In particular, the Wiener SPÖ says that no one can come in, but Mr Mayor Häupl as the responsibility for the citizenship award already gives Austrian citizenship to anyone who lives here for three or four years, although it is normally necessary to wait ten years in accordance with law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: To get votes!]] This led to the fact that almost 50,000 people in Vienna alone have received Austrian citizenship over the last five years. These are the ones that come in at once with the congregation apartments. It is now almost more attractive than Turks to accept citizenship and apply for something to the magistrate Vienna than to do as Austrians. That's not how it's done! That is why we ask you, Minister of State: Finally put your concept of social state reform on the table, do not push for future decisions, tell us how you want to finance this, and explain to us why you are not willing to lend ear to the reasonable proposals of the liberals to fight against unemployment, to secure additional jobs and to relieve the labour market by reducing the number of guest workers, by reintegration of the host workers into their home countries and giving support! What prevents you from saying: Honestly, we do what other countries do. If we have too many foreign workers, we need to integrate them back into their homes. It is simply a humbug to say that there is the right to family integration, which is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. – That's wrong. Family integration is primarily a means of living together in the home country. Only if there are political obstacles does the right of succession exist, otherwise not at all. This fairy tale, which is being spread there – also from the government bank – is to be thoroughly destroyed in order to ultimately prevent the interests of the Austrian population from being further damaged by this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6621	Mrs Reitsamer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6643	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, Mr Haider, on the other hand, has poured out a real rag on our Minister of Social Affairs, and on the other hand I can only be surprised to see how much he appreciates him. He has approved of the sole government at all; he is now even responsible for internal affairs and for what is not all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's already in charge of the karenz money!]] I think he missed the subject too: In fact, we wanted to discuss the 1994 Social Report, but it does not matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you allow me, Mr. Haider... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Perhaps you'll calm down a little, Mr Haigermoser, so I can talk. Come on, come on. It's a failure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm not excited at all!]] I will first deal with the 1994 Social Report and allow myself some comments on the statements made by Mr Haider. Despite everything you have said here, ladies and gentlemen: The report on the social situation discussed here today 1994 is once again evidence of Austria's responsible social policy. Since I can assume that this report has been read by everyone, I would like to address just a few details for time. That's what it says: The number of self-employed workers increased by 0.5 percent. There were increases in employees everywhere except for Vienna. Nevertheless, my However, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that in the present report: The number of unemployed has remained almost constant, there has been a slight increase of 600. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just talk about the past!]] We are discussing a report! I cannot discuss a report forward-lookingly. If you haven't gotten that yet, you'll learn German! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: Don't get upset!]] I don't get upset at all! [[Call the liberals:You, Annamirl...!]] Mr President. I usually choose for myself the people with whom I am dealing with first names and in the du-form. I feel it's an infamy and an insult when someone says to me: "Annamirl, what's up to you?" I ask you to step in here. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I do not want to be addressed by the liberals with the first name. I would like to have made that clear once and for all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6746	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I heard that call, too. I just didn't want to interrupt you. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask that this form of calls be omitted in the future. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Haider! This call applies to every political group in the House, which was only a concrete occasion. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Annemarie, why are you excited?]] Mr Haigermoser! I'm really asking for a little more attitude now. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6779	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not want to present the situation here as beautiful or as rosier as it is, because every single unemployed person is a unemployed person too much. Nevertheless, it must not be mentioned that within the last ten years we have created 300 000 additional jobs, mainly in the service sector. In international comparison, we are still outstanding. But reports are in themselves that, when they are discussed, they are already obsolete. In the case of the labour market situation, they are unfortunately obsolete in the negative sense. We are dealing with rising numbers of unemployed – despite the very high level of employment of 3.04 million people. We must do everything we can, ladies and gentlemen, to tackle this rising unemployment. In this respect, I would also like to mention the European Union's employment initiative, which was primarily based on our Federal Chancellor and our members of our government. The employment policy in the European Union, thanks to social-democratic initiatives, is now finally of a different importance. If there are labour market collapses, ladies and gentlemen, it is time and again in the discussion that the main reason is to resort to the claim that work would be too expensive for workers to be able to give up. In addition to wage costs, international comparisons are made, which naturally impress on non-experts of matter. The comparison of additional wage costs, for example, with those in Canada and the claim that they would be twice as high as there, is huge. There's no 13 and 14 in Canada. Monthly reference. – If you want to discuss this topic in a serious way, you simply must not let it go. To hold this discussion exclusively on the back of the workers, we cannot accept that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should now like to return to the report. The "Development and Distribution of People's Income" chapter shows that gross remuneration for self-employed workers has increased by only 0.5 percent in real terms, but capital income by 3.7 percent and earnings from profits by even 9 percent. The net distribution of national income has therefore shifted in favour of income and assets. I think that throws on this discussion as you lead it, another light. Let me say something about income differences, both in the case of active incomes and in the case of pensions between men and women. Men earn 42 percent more than women, and for a third of this difference, women's higher part-time employment is responsible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Part-time also means part-time wages, part-time benefits and so on. Women know this and still choose this variant in order to be able to bring care obligations and professional activity into one's hands. As long as we do not allow women to enter other employment conditions through childcare facilities, these major differences will not be removed. When the social democrats were called upon to train mothers in such a way as to ensure employment and social rights, there was immediate resistance, and the choice between ordinary service relations and value contracts was praised through press releases. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already true that work contracts must now be treated differently under the recently adopted structural adjustment laws. However, as far as sickness benefit is concerned, maternity benefits, 13th anniversary of the death of And 14. Monthly salary and other more to mean, women – they are mostly women affected by it – will only be aware when the contract is signed and the event is due. That is what I know from many discussions with women in the field of old age care. In this area, I repeatedly call for the creation of proper working conditions. As long as individual associations for financial reasons break through the goal, we will not continue here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unless the public support is linked to it. This would, by the way, also be a possible variant for those companies that move their production abroad or at least always threaten it: to repay previously consumed subsidies, as far as possible with interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to women's employment. Here I see a corresponding commitment by all political actors to make a conscious effort to ensure that women have a complete insurance course and therefore an independent pension scheme is essential. The 1993 pension reform with the billing of child rearing times makes it possible. This would also be expected in the longer term. We would no longer have had so many women who have received social assistance and compensation. I am particularly concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that the proportion of women in the small number of employees is still 73 per cent. Do you know what the main motive for women to enter into such employment relationships is? – The single-earner discount amount and better access to housing aids. We have to tell these women what they're doing with it. I'm sure I won't be idle. But I say one thing very clearly: Inclusion of these atypical employment conditions without If and But into the social security system cannot be the recipe. I would like to deal with a few more requests which are being dealt with at the same time as the Social Report. On the request of Mr Peter: Novelisation of the holiday law. Mr Peter! Just because there are problems in the seasonal sectors, it is not possible to alter the holiday law to the detriment of all. There is something else to think of. Perhaps an annual working time model, similar to in the construction industry, would be a recipe. I have already discussed with Mrs Haidlmayr in the Committee; she wishes to see a change in the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. The compensation tax of 1,920 s is admittedly too low for us, but with a gross average salary, Mrs Haidlmayr, I think that I am missing – I have told you – because social assistance services, which accept disabled people, must pay the compensation tax, and that would be too high, because I cannot imagine that disabled people are caring for disabled people. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No, but in the administration!]] In the administrative area one is very cost-saving, very gentle. For example, if, as with me, three persons are employed by 140 employees in the administrative sector, no disabled person could be employed. Because even if the labour market service finances a corresponding entrance door, wheelchair drivers can only get to the front house, but not to the second floor, as there is no possibility of installing a lift in this house. I am only telling you once again, so much so that I share your wish to increase the tax on compensation, but this must be done in a moderate and reasonable manner. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address another area. During the discussion on the Social Report in 1993, Mr Nürnberger has dealt intensively with the differences between workers and employees. Due to a wealth of parliamentary work, which was necessary and important, but also through some unnecessary and time-consuming ceremonies here in this House, we have not gone much further in this matter. This must and should now be tackled as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only the differences in health insurance contributions, payment, termination periods and more mean massive inequality. At a time when reforms and adaptations are needed through changed framework conditions, the sheer will not be the will of the legislator at an uneven starting position. I would like to take a very brief look at Mr Kier's request for a redefinition of employment, and why this proposal has not found a majority. Mr President, you have made a number of demands, including the harmonisation of all pension systems. They know that harmonisation is being worked on. Therefore, it was not possible to agree to a speeding up of so many wishes in your application. But with regard to the approximation of workers and employees, you certainly have us as allies – we can, and I would like to be sure to deal with this together. Mr Haider said something very dangerous with his request for measures against unemployment today. I would agree with him that it would save the labour market administration if workers were not unemployed, obtained lower wages and paid the difference from the labour market service. Faith But you do not think that we would only have more to do with such employment relationships? I think so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you've been dealing with the pusserism. Push isn't just Push, and since you're the lawyer of the little man who's a little woman, you have to think of the house builders doing the neighborhood services. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You didn't listen to that!]] I've been listening. However, I would like to mention once again that we want this to be ruled out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That would be an advantage for the house builders!]] They always say only half, the others will be shamefully silent. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 15 percent less would be an advantage for the house builders! Or isn't it?]] There are other possibilities, but you can't build houses like that, I tell you. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Tell me what your alternative is, Mrs. Colleague!]] That's not how someone's gonna be able to build a house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – This is at the expense of the speaking time of my colleagues. We can discuss this another time if I don't have to give you my hand. Because that's not what I'm going to do! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have no alternative!]] They said that 330 000 workers would earn less than 8 000 s, and they used examples from Burgenland to do so. Not only that I don't believe that – but I couldn't research it any more in the short time – I ask you one thing: Why Praise Is the American model so high, where there are so many working people, poor workers who can't even argue with their work and have to practice several such occupations? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've never heard of me! You must have dreamed of that!]] You have already praised the more often, not today, but I wanted to face this, because you are bringing the other half in one speech half and next week, in the hope that you can no longer remember the first half. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Finally, I do not wish to fail to thank all the officials of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for the excellent and clear social report. He should, as I believe, be a mandatory reading for all people interested in social policy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6958	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate that is just taking place is marked by the fact that several materials are combined, which have quite a connection, but which are, in part – each of them – of the greatest scope. That is why, unfortunately, it is only limited to really address all aspects as detailed as you would like to do in the context of the time available. This is why I find this very unpleasant, because it may also give the impression that individual aspects are not taken as seriously as others. I will therefore try to set priorities and work out essential aspects from a liberal point of view. I will start with the report on the social situation – I stress very explicitly – in 1994, and we are now writing in 1996. There are objective reasons why this is so, but these objective reasons are only very limited, because one of them has been the re-election, which was rather abrupt and maliciously broken out in the previous year. I believe that, once again, it is clear that, from a tactical point of view, shortened legislative periods result in important issues being discussed only with a great delay in time. That is why this report on the social situation has rather the character of a social history or economic history document. In this sense he is quite recognized by us, but for the political day, for today and for the problems of the future he is only very limited to say. We need the more up-to-date data, the current trends will be needed, and these are not recognizable in this report. If Mr Reitsamer has resisted an interlocutory call that has been made on this point, I understand from her point of view, but I must say that this was, of course, objectively correct. It is strange to be in the face of a growing structural crisis, against the background of ever-increasing unemployment, and against the current background of this government's social red tape over 1994. I therefore believe that the report on the social situation should take only two points of view which show how well this criticism is. We have already read in the 1993 report that there are no partial benefits in the area of unemployment. I am very conscious of the remarks made by Mr Haider, who has worked out this issue – although perhaps with a different approach, but quite correctly. In the 1994 report, however, we read that, unfortunately, there are no partial benefits in the area of invalidity pensions, although this is not the case in principle, because in the field of accidents at work there is this, only in the area of other invalidity there is no such thing. If you look at the numbers, however, you see that Zig thousands of partially disabled people would very much like to work if they did not deteriorate dramatically at the social level, but on the pension side in no way would be covered by the pensions they would receive. Here is a sheer that continues to rise, which is expensive, unsocial, inhuman and unbearable to the working world. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A second aspect was taken out of this economic and social history report and illustrated by one example: women. They can be taken out of this social history report because, unfortunately, the findings have not really changed for decades. It is, as it were, a constant of all social reports that shows that women are still dramatically poorly affected, which is easy to see if only income is seen. The differences in income are still so dramaticly large and consistent that one can only talk about a tragic failure of the environment. I think that this is clear enough, as an example. However, the ability for women to earn is still dramatically lower, and among those who earn less than 12,000 S gross is the vast majority of women. But not because they are worse qualified, but because they are better qualified and because they are paid even worse than men if they do the same work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now one would think that, if there is already this dissatisfaction – I am sure, all political groups agree on this point, nothing happens from the government side – at least draw the right conclusions from it. But what knowledge has been drawn from it? – A bonus malus system has been introduced for older employees who use this very element to "regulate" women more quickly from the working world, because if you have these findings, you know: The retirement age is lower, the income is lower, the malus is lower. And vice versa: The retirement age of men is higher, the income is higher, the bonus is higher. It is therefore not only the effect that the under 50-year-old woman will now be temporarily terminated at the latest at 49 years of age, so that the bonus malus system can be avoided at all. But if one cannot avoid it, of course, he announces the more than 50-year-old women and not the more than 50-year-old men, because this causes a lower malus, and appoints the over 50-year-old men and not the over 50-year-old women because women would bring a lower bonus. This effect is clear from the social report, and in the background of this report, the Federal Government has introduced this bonus-malus system. And that – I ask you to take note of this – is unbearable! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] No one can now claim that this happens by chance. And these and other reasons are why we believe that it is quite right to discuss this report here, to take it up for granted, but, unfortunately, it is not possible from a liberal point of view. A second, even more essential aspect, because it contains a future orientation, is our liberal request for the redefinition of self-employed work and for the harmonisation of pension rights. Mrs Reitsamer has just mentioned this, and I have to oppose her quite a lot: This request did not contain a taxative list of claims to be implemented directly, but this resolution was aimed at calling on the Federal Government to present an operating calendar with the aim of creating the legal framework for the harmonisation of workers' rights in the field of self-employed employment and the harmonisation of pension rights. We also know from the Liberal Group that this is a major project, that it is not a project to which one simply submits a request and says: Please discuss a biterl and then – fresh, bird, or die! – decide! but that it is a matter of course – also in cooperation with the social partners – of creating an operational calendar in order to finally develop the right of employment towards a unified workers' right. The ÖGB itself has taken relevant unanimous decisions, but with the exclusion of the public service. On the other hand, we want to know how public service is involved in this reform, but that is only a modest difference when one knows about the magnitude of the problem. It is already understandable that the ÖGB has done so. Obviously he did not want to engage in public service with his own trade union, that may be, because otherwise he might not have obtained unanimity, but it is about the basic question behind it, and the basic question is: We need that! For example, if we had finally moved in there, we would not have had to hold this insidious work contract debate at all. It would have been clear that, in the case of self-employed employment within the meaning of an employee's employment, the contract of work would not have been possible at all, but where it is actually free contracts of employment or contracts of work, this would have been completely clear on the table in the overall codification. We would not have put a very complicated legal question in the subjective assessment of reporting agents whom we still punish if they may be mistaken in reporting. All of this is behind the concern expressed by the Liberal Group, which, although having been discussed in the Committee, has been rejected, given the reasons which were simply clear. Mr Feurstein meant that it was not because the working world was so diverse. We have replied that, when it comes to the fundamental rights of employees, diversity is a secondary argument. Of course, a uniform right of employment is not required to regulate each individual case of work in a taxative form, but it is obviously no different in the world of people who come from chambers and think in terms of sparks and stands. Of course, one has to differentiate, but differentiation is not a question of the basic rules for the servicers, but that is a question which can be differentiated on the ground in businesses, in business agreements, in interaction with trade unions, in interaction with works councils. The legal requirement will only occur if it becomes apparent that our trade unions are unable to negotiate in such a way that our companies are unable to reach reasonable agreements. Only then might it be possible that there is a need for legal regulation on details. I do not hope that this will happen because I firmly believe in the self-responsible and powerful citizens and, in particular, in a powerful union. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If, therefore, our request on the grounds that it has been too far-reaching, it unfortunately must be rejected, it has not found a majority in the committee and, I am afraid, it will not find a majority in this House, then this is evidence of the unwillingness to present an operating calendar for a reform. And that says much more about the Federal Government than some others. If one is not even prepared to make a work plan for a reform, then it seems that one is not prepared to take this reform seriously. I therefore cannot really believe the words of Mrs Reitsamer, who spoke of her being very close to our concerns. It would have been quite easy. It could have voted in the Committee on the motion for a resolution on the development of an operational calendar for the redefinition of self-employed workers. It has not done so, perhaps because of political discipline, but that is not a good reason for someone who has a free mandate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now on pension rights: We also know that the reform and harmonisation of social pension rights – I attach great importance to the adverbacy of "social" pension rights – is a project of great scope, but of enormous urgency, because demographic figures speak a very clear language, the development of contributions speaks a clear language, the development of the demand on the disbursement side speaks a clear language. If the Federal Minister emphasizes that he sees pensions as eligible until this or at that time, I tell him: Yes, sure – about debt! "Finally" does not mean that they are covered in the system, that is, that you can somehow represent the money, and that is approaching what you call negligent Krida in the economy. If one claims that the payments could already be made, because anyone would guarantee it, then it is not economic, but only liquidity. We have made the proposal to think of an immediate change by operating on a forty-fifth regime and saying: We'll all do it right away. All rights acquired so far remain the rights of the claimants, and what they still receive up to 65 or up to 60. A new system will be introduced into a new system. But there is not even the willingness to discuss it. That is why I think it is really moving and worrying if this failure to reform is so clearly demonstrated by the voting behaviour. Another aspect of this conglomerate of materials, which we discuss under one, is the family transfer: The Committee on Social Affairs has recently decided to allocate it to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This will be done as well, and we will be voting in plenary today in favour of this assignment to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because we want the debate to continue, at last, so that it does not stop again. But in the political dimension, our proposal was not understood. Our proposal was not a family-political proposal, but was a social request to safeguard the existence of children. – And this is always a social policy issue. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This proposal should not be used to produce a particular model of social policy in the family, but should enable it to protect children from need, to ensure them a minimum of living and to provide them with equal opportunities, with the use of parents and with subsidiary use of public resources. Of course. Self-reliance should also be an element of family planning. Putting children into the world should also be a conscious process and not just a random one. We believe that this element of personal responsibility is very clearly illustrated in our model and, by the way, is fully covered in the applicable maintenance law, but at the same time it constitutes significant discharges in the so-called Karenz leave grant law, that significant reliefs in the area of family allowances to unemployment insurance constitute significant reliefs in other social transfers. . That means that the social dimension of our request is completely unmistakable for someone who has read it. This is also the reason why we are confounded that it has not been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but is coming to the Committee on Family Affairs. It should be discussed where it is going now, however, it does not lose its social dimension, and we will not allow it to perhaps be abused as an instrument for: Women back to the stove! I feel the arguments that will come, I already feel how to try to mix family and social policies in such a way as to maintain the conservative structures of our society, so that the emancipation of women is further hampered and made more difficult, instead of allowing them free, equal access to the world of work. This is also a question of making equal opportunities permanent. – That was not understood! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, it has not been understood that, according to our consideration, which aims to safeguard the existence of children, it would not have been necessary at all to terminate social agreements in this cross-border form – we will still have the opportunity today to talk about them in detail – namely the social agreements with Slovenia, with Croatia, with Bosnia-Herzegovina and so on, just so as not to have to pay family allowances there. "existence minimum" means to depend on the existential needs of the person concerned on the ground. According to our family transfer model, this would have meant that children living in Turkey would, of course, need a lower minimum of existence because of their standard of living there, so that significant discharges would have occurred in the budget without having to terminate unilateral social agreements with states. But I say again: Of course, only someone who has read our request knows that. And that makes you so perplexed, because you have the feeling that it is being looked at who made the application and then decided whether you are against it or for it. If it is not from the Group of the European People's Party or from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it will at least be rejected and not used for a real discussion. This is something that means a crisis of parliamentarianism, and I say it loud and public, because I mean: If we do not really discuss, we will not have the common innovation force in the social policy field, but we urgently need it, because that our social system is in a crisis, that certainly does not dispute anyone. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is in a crisis, in so far as the demands we want to meet with them are no longer uniformly defined and no one knows himself anymore. My colleague, Mr Barmüller, highlighted this very clearly on the occasion of the budget debate. It is about a decent conversion of the social state, it is about refinancing the social state, it is about financing the social state away from the minds of the self-employed to other financing mechanisms – in another Jargon it is about reducing the additional wage costs! But that means finding other ways. [[Call:Value added]] If there's someone there now the call "value added!" That's a one-dimensional idea. We must agree on the tax bases on which this is to be applied: for example, resources, of course energy, but not unilaterally, as is the case now. For years, we have heard that energy taxes cannot be introduced unilaterally, even though the reduction of additional labour costs would have been the parallel action at that time. At present, additional labour costs are not reduced, i.e. social status is being deteriorated, and energy taxes have nevertheless been unilaterally introduced. This is not a refinancing – this is facade renovation! My colleague Barmüller has already brought this to us today. But behind the facade, the social system is eroded, it is denucleated. The facade is regularly removed, the windows are regularly cleaned, but the floors behind it are laid off, instead of being aware that a new architecture has to be built. This new architecture, however, is a new basic consensus, and one must, for example, redefine unemployment. But that would have been an element of this operating calendar that was rejected. We must consider: Is someone unemployed only if he has worked before and lost this job, or is someone unemployed if he is looking for a job, but finds none? – In our system, we insist that someone who is looking for a job but does not find anyone who has not worked long enough – if he has not worked before – has not been recognized as a unemployed person and is therefore not supported as such by us. And these are the things that will be missed if one does not even agree to open a discussion on an operational calendar of the Federal Government. Let me make a final comment on Mr Haider's thoughts on the highest numbers of foreigners, employment and the question of the Turkish legal status with regard to the Association Agreements with the EU. It will be a detailed opportunity to talk about it at another item on the agenda, but one thing I must say already today and now: This is the bill "unemployed against foreigners" through the back door. If I say, If you freeze the maximum number of foreigners or reduce by any percentages in the sense of "türkkenproblemtik", the quota is reduced, you have an absolute immigration stop, then, as if by itself, unemployment will flee, then that is the calculation by force mechanics, only that doesn't work. The demand for the economy will be different from structural unemployment, and we would need a totally inhumane foreign law. It was a need for me to say it here now and not to let it remain unanswered, for I cannot tolerate the fact that under the appearance of representing social concerns, the human dignity of others is being trampled on with feet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7088	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7110	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, you will give us your attention at the gallery! High house! Since I believe in the good and work for the better, I do not fully understand why some of the speakers in the Social Report are bringing us today a mood that is just too sad. We will not be able to accept them, we cannot accept them either. I am not blue-eyed or gullible, but I believe we have every reason to accept this report of activity on the social situation with joy and satisfaction, and I thank all those who have worked on it – not only to the employees in the ministry who have worked on this work, but to all the citizens who have contributed to social work and to the social task in 1994 – this year includes the report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I recall Mr Haider's contribution to the debate, I would like to describe him as follows: So the Lord said: If I had the design options, there wouldn't be any more! – He would receive all benefits, he would deregulate all taxes, he would do anything different. I wonder, How would he finance all this? It is not possible to leave everything on one side as it is, and on the other side at the same time to change everything. It's not possible! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We'll cut your salary!]] If it is demagogically said here that the government is taking away money from the disabled, then we must put the whole thing in the right place. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: System Defense!]] – I am not a system defender, Dr. Haider, I am just one who knows the matter – to the difference from you, although you have an insight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An old social security officer you are!]] In the old form of care, we have granted 20 percent of the care level III as a so-called daily and pocket allowance and – as all benefits are to be provided during this institution care – we also thought that 10 percent are reasonable. That is why, in the context of the Structural Adjustment Act, we have reduced this by 10 percent. Dr. Haider! You will find a performance of this quality nowhere in Europe or anywhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 500 S Pocket money for disabled people! That's your human quality!]] If you claim that we are the downfallers of the families, then this is a demagogic representation, Dr. Haider! You can say that, but it's not right. That is why I am glad that, although you can take the floor here, you do not have an order outside to design something. I am glad and satisfied! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The last election was in Burgenland. The Burgenland was often addressed here today; it was the talk of what conditions would exist there. This has made it clear that you were very often down. – Well, you've been expecting more than you've got there. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You too!]] I said: You've been expecting more. Listen to me, Dr. Ofner! The social field is actually affecting people in all situations of life, the youth as well as the professionals and also the people who have already left working life, the healthy and those who have less ease in life, namely the sick and the disabled. And we can really be pleased and proud that it is possible that we in Austria have 29.5% of gross domestic product or 699 billion schilling – I think that is not a small thing with God, do you think? - spending time in the social field. This is tangible, and we can be proud of it. But we must not turn back, but we must make a far-reaching effort, work on it and develop it further. That's the challenge! The basis for all of this is that we had a good employment situation. At the moment, we have problems in this regard – we in the rest of Europe – and it makes no sense to be sorry for each other here, but we have to think about how we can solve these problems together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that the competitiveness of our economy needs to be strengthened, and the economy includes entrepreneurs, workers, farmers, members of the professions, all of us. That's where we need some action. And if this report also deals with workers' protection and labour law, then it is quite right, but I believe that we have some developments in this area too, where we may have covered a little too much. Of course, we also have areas where we need to re-adjust, not least because of integration. We are also in the process of holding the necessary consultations in the committees. If you ask people about their needs, they say that the greatest need for security is that of security in all situations of life. It's about safety at work. It is about safety against risks of illness, accident and age. And with our social system in Austria, I believe, we have created a good condition that we can provide adequate answers to all the questions or provide reasonable services. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should deal with unemployment insurance, unemployment and the like. Unemployment is, in fact, a terrible fate for every person, and we therefore have to try to ensure that it does not happen to him as far as possible, although I believe that one cannot arrange jobs, that work cannot be ordered, that one can only create conditions for people to have work and work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The unemployment insurance system, as well as it is, is certainly not free of errors. To eliminate these, I believe, is our task. And the question of whether we leave the rules of visibility in this way or worsen something should not be clarified here from the speaker's desk, but rather should we discuss with each other in principle. In 1994, the employment offices had also been reformed. With 1. The Labour Market Service Act came into force on July 14, 1994. We have also experienced corresponding successes in the work placement through the new law. However, I believe that we will have to continue our efforts in this area in the next few weeks and months, and we will also have to work out some delays and failures there. Overall, we can point to a reasonable development that we can still improve on a daily basis. This report also refers to the pension system and states that in 1994 1 805,000 citizens in Austria received a pension pension pension relationship. And it's true, Dr. Kier, that we need to think here. I do not agree with you that we are in a crisis. But I believe that we must do everything we can to see certain developments clearly. We must see that the pension system cannot continue to fulfil labour market tasks. This will not be possible, it will not be eligible for funding, since the generation agreement will not remain stable. There must be changes here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Likewise, we need answers to one – thank God – higher life expectancy. We also need answers to the reduction of working time. In 1970, the lifetime was 43,2 years, in 1994 it was 38,4 years – through longer training, by early retirement. These are the facts we have to focus on. We also note that pension benefits increased by 295 per cent from 1970 to 1994, even by 473 per cent, while the consumer index increased by only 198 per cent at that time. In other words, we have a very good development, especially in the field of pensions, and I think we should be pleased about it. What I noticed and what I would like to say critically, are the pension benefits for the type of pension "general pension". Here we have an average power of 13 400 S, the lowest power of 7 600 S, the highest 17 500 S, in the range ASVG, BSVG and GSVG, in the public area 30 600 S. I don't care about envy, but I'm worried if we can explain to those with a 7 600 S pension that that's all we have to give them. We're not gonna get that over in the long run. That is why we will have to seek and strive for more harmonisation. This is a very difficult thing, because no one wants to get involved here, which is above the means, and anyone who is under the means expects a lot. But it is not a hopeless task. If we want to, we can also achieve improvements here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The 1993 pension reform has already referred in an impressive way to the process of change. I believe, however, that all these remodelling elements are not sufficient because of the changes that have taken place since then and we have to re-adjust them. That certainly does not save us. Reference to the care allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! I have recently spoken to parliamentarians from the Federal Republic of Germany, and they have told me: Dear friend! Guess you're lucky to be in Austria. We in the Federal Republic of Germany cannot at all imagine offering a care allowance of this quality. We have 310 000 citizens in care. 1 per cent of these are in the merciful situation of having to live in the care level 7 and 58 per cent of them are in the care level 2. Overall, I think we have in this area a quality of performance that you will not find anywhere else. That is what we should tell the citizens, we also want to point this out, and we need to talk about it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is no question that there are concerns and problems in health insurance. But I believe that this is what we can do today anyway. I mean, just to point out that we also have to see – in all the palavers there are – that revenue has on average increased by 3 to 4 percent over the last 10 years, while expenditure has increased by 10 percent and more percent. We have received all the additional achievements with joy, but today we will also have to give answers to these things, because we cannot continue this development. Personally, I do not think that the new hospital bill solves the problem, nor am I a friend of increases in contributions. I say this quite openly, and many people know that I was allowed to talk to. However, I believe that some proposals, such as those made by Minister Hums in recent days, such as parts of the tobacco tax on health, are reasonable. And we should really deal with them and not say: I can't, I don't make any sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must also have the courage to discuss this issue honestly. I believe that the health insurance system is no longer a repair, but needs a correction, a new line, new developments and more private responsibility of the citizen. It's not going to save us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If someone believes that accident insurance has to come up for everything, then he should take a look at the case that was reported "help tv" yesterday evening in the show: There a man has run a risky sport and suffered a serious accident, and he now demands all benefits from the statutory accident insurance – up to the service. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to cover all other areas, such as household accidents and leisure accidents, with the funds of accident insurance, which we have essentially contributed to the prevention of accidents and accidents at work, we must also be aware that sometime the cover will be too short. Either we find ways to partially cover household and leisure accidents, or we have to come to a new performance view. I believe that we should also say that we have a comprehensive and good social system – without risk reading – in which almost 99.77 percent of all citizens – are involved, without regard to their status, their health, their age or any other criteria, and can also fully expect all benefits. We also have to say that social security – an enemy image of some – does not work as badly as it is sometimes presented. The administrative burden of these facilities where 28 000 people work is 2.9 percent. Show me a facility that would work much more efficient or cheaper! Therefore, we must not always pour out the child with the bath, but must discuss selectively and clearly: We are talking about the problems we face, we are working on them, but we must not question them as a whole. I don't think that's fair. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have a good social development in this century. Social policy is not a stark thing, but something that must be adjusted constantly. Social policy should remain financially viable, and social policy must serve people. The fact that we have a high standard today that we have a wealth is not a gift from heaven – not with God! – nor is it the sole achievement – you may forgive it – of social democracy, nor is it the product of oppositional polemics, but it is the result of the work of citizens in this country. It was a strenuous development to this day! That is why we also have to value and honor these achievements accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank all those who have contributed here, from a Karl Maisel, who was the first Social Minister from 1945 to 1956, over Grete Rehor, who was a huge reformer, to Franz Hums, the Minister. Thank you all! However, I would also like to thank all the social speakers, including Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer, for having met her as a very dedicated and willing woman in this field. But my special recognition applies to you, Gottfried Feurstein, because you are always one of those who are looking for new things with us and strive to thoroughly prepare and also consistently implement all these changes. We have reason to rejoice! We need to know that social security must continue to be maintained in this country. We have to make an effort to use the resources needed. We have the duty to secure the purchased services. We all have a great task to face!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7289	The next speaker is Mr Oellinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7311	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Donabauer's jubilation, it will be time to return to the realities, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good speech!]] Of course, I already admit what is undisputed by all the political groups, including us: The Social Report is good, but social reality is far from good, Mr Donabauer! They have very detailed what developed social system we have in Austria. I agree. Only you have said very little about what you can do with your policy in these years, now, to help maintain, expand or reorientate this social system. We should actually discuss the fact that, in contrast to the 1994 figures contained in the Social Report, we already have substantially changed economic and social indicators. In my view, it is quite absurd for us to adopt a structural adjustment law in the spring of 1996 with serious consequences for certain groups of the population and then to discuss a social report for 1994 a few months later. So, under the first Structural Adjustment Act, we are discussing a social situation that is no longer in this Republic. This is quite absurd, Mr Donabauer. This is why I think it is quite absurd, because if you had taken this report, for example the distribution report, more intensively than the basis for acting on this structural adjustment law – we can only criticise it – as the basis of the measures, then these measures would have to look different. For example, the income situation of men and women. In contrast to your positive presentation, we still have more than 300 000 people in 1994 who deserve less than 12 000 S gross for full-time work for 40 or 38 hours of work. This is a certificate of poverty for social policy and for income policy in this country! This is indeed a witness of poverty! Ten years ago – I can't get tired of saying that again and again – your group colleagues and the social-democratic trade unionists in Vorarlberg agreed for the first time to demand 10,000 S minimum wage – 10,000 S! But that was in 1985. The 1994 Social Report no longer shows this category of those less than 10 000 s, although there were still working groups in 1994... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We're at 13,000! 13,000!]] Mrs Mertel! There have been professional groups, but not in your public services, of course, but in the private sector there have been professional groups such as taxi drivers, like the employees in the dental field, which are below 10,000 S gross – under 10,000 S gross – 1994! It is quite depressing that we still have to deal with this reality. Mr Nürnberger! It is also depressing for trade union policy. I know the metallers already have more than 10,000 s. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] I know they're over it. But this report again mentions the number of 300,000 people who earn less than 12,000 S gross, and that is about 10,000 S net. That's depressing! In view of this one cannot say: It is a very satisfactory situation, and we have a very developed social system! – You can’t say that anymore! You know the consequence, Mr Nürnberger, too. The consequence of this is that, if these persons have to go to unemployment, they will receive 4 000 p.a., 5 000 p.m. unemployment benefit. [[For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Hostish.]] That is what I am in favour of the Structural Adjustment Act, Mrs Hostasch! I think it is quite absurd that we need to discuss this social report, for example, that we need to discuss numbers and figures in terms of unemployment and emergency aid, that we must note that unemployment benefit and emergency aid for women on average are still much lower than for men, that women's wages and income are still much lower than men's, that women's pensions are still much lower than men's, but that, when it comes to the 1996 structural adjustment law, women are a group of the main subjects. I think it is absurd that we are discussing a social report that we are not discussing the distribution report, although this distribution report says, for example, that the redistribution in the area of unemployment insurance and family policy works in some way. What are you doing with your structural adjustment law that we passed a few months ago? It is in this area that measures are put in place which are the weakest. It is precisely in this area where it would be important to maintain the existing, actually functioning redistribution through social transfers that the weakest ones are punished; it is precisely there that they are trying to reach those with the lowest income in order to demand their Obolus, while those with the highest incomes in this Republic remain – I emphasize it, Mr Nürnberger: continue! – those are – even though you may not share the results or the assessments of the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers or the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers – which are least affected by the Structural Adjustment Act. That is what the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol has found, that is what the Chamber of Labour Salzburg has found, and that is what the Chamber of Labour of Upper Austria has found. Perhaps – I don't know – the Chamber of Workers Vienna has found something different; I don't think so. [[Abg. Hostash: But you should know, because there you sit inside!]] – No, I am no longer sitting in the Chamber of Workers Vienna, colleague Hostasch, but I think it is clear what the Chambers of Workers have found out during the discussions of the Structural Adjustment Act, namely that the groups with the highest incomes are not disproportionately used to finance this Structural Adjustment Act. I think it is absurd that we are discussing this issue here and today, which will probably also be discussed in the afternoon during the health debate – from some sides this proposal will come – that those with low incomes should pay even more self-sufficiency, although, for example, the income statistics contained in this social report in 1994 show that, for example, in the health sector, the high-income group, with over 2.5 million schillings, should not experience a corresponding increase in the amount of income per year. There is no other mentioned area with such high incomes of over 2.5 million schillings per year than those in the health sector. I think that when we discuss changes in the health sector, we should also look more closely at the income situation of certain groups working in the health sector. It is still obvious that this is a hot iron or a taboo issue, which cannot be discussed by discussing the health issue and the health situation in that country, that there are groups that can still be well deserved in this situation in the health sector and even in the empty cash offices. I think it impossible for us to read the reports of the last few days on health issues that, for example, in the case of a case of a death in the hospital, the well-informed primary doctor, who should have been in the hospital and had been obliged to attend, could not be brought to the hospital and brought to the hospital because, at the same time as he was required to be present in the hospital, he operated elsewhere – at his own expense and at his own account. These are the things that we need to highlight in the context of a health debate, a social policy debate on the health issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Haider! They have addressed another issue, which is certainly equally important, namely the situation of foreign workers and the quota in this context. Unfortunately, Mr Haider, you have again misplaced it. You have therefore misplaced it, because I do not think it is as simple as you imagine simply reducing the number of employees in the employment rate. Mr Haider! That does not answer the question: What are you doing with the people? – These have a valid right of residence in Austria. Do you want to "bring it out"? Do you want to bring them back to their homelands? What are you doing with these people? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Reintegration into your home country!]] Mr Haider! We must now note that the very problem of this policy, of this employment policy by means of a foreign employment law, is that this gap between the quotas by means of the right of residence and the employment quotas means that foreigners must, in fact, get to know each other at all prices in Austria so that they do not come under the guillotine of the Residence Act. It is precisely the foreign employment law with its quota that is the reason and reason for the foreigners to have to accept a wage at any price, employment at any price. Mr Haider! You need to explain more clearly! What do you want to do with these employees? I remember, Mr Haider, when you were here a few months ago at this speaker's desk and said: No, we don't want to send home the host workers who worked here for years! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I said that again today!]] – But your policy goes beyond that, because we have been discussing nothing more in Austria for months, Mr Haider, than not taking in more new employees and regulating the admission rates for family members – hopefully humane, according to the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You must listen to me! I said all this today!]] There's nothing else we're discussing. You know the figures that we have dealt with on your urgent question a few weeks ago in this House. They know what the admission rates are currently looking like, how many foreign employees are actually admitted to Austria because of work. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Too many!]] No, there won't be too many. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Of course: Too many!]] It will enable family members to move, and there will be no movement on the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Austrians pay a tax package because we can't afford it, and you'll get it in!]] Mr Haider! The only movement you want to allow on the labour market I think is the most dangerous. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Austrians pay all this!]] They still represent a seasonal model, which would enable the unlimited movement of seasonally employed workers to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Austria first!]] That would be wage pressure. It is not by chance that a member of your party's parliament, Mr. Haider, colleague Stix from Vienna, says: [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not even you are so stupid that you don't understand!]] Of course, we want to get foreign workers in the field of public transport from Hungary, Romania, so that they can act here as wage-pressors, because then finally the tariffs in public transport would be cut down! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A seasonal worker goes home! A season kidney goes home again...!]] This is the statement of a representative of your party, and it is not really clear and not often enough to indicate what you imagine under an employment policy for foreign workers, namely the wages of foreigners and the wages of the domestics alike. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Sozialminister! I have pointed out that the Social Report is a good document, the reality is another. She's not so good anymore. It will be created by the realities you have created with your structural adjustment laws – I do not want to say from week to week, but from year to year – not better, but worse. Mr Sozialminister! I would ask you at least to find the courage to include a new chapter in this social report, which you present year after year with very good figures, namely a poverty report, because we cannot discuss here and today – but not only here and today – where poverty exists in Austria and in which groups. The fact that we cannot do this has to do with the fact that this reality of poverty in Austria is largely excluded from the social policy debate. However, it is also a task for social policy not only to deal with employment and insurance, but also to deal with poverty. However, this requires a condition: One must know where it takes place, one must know at which angles – the angles have now become quite wide – in Austria poverty has infiltrated, one must know that, for example, not only the single parents are now in danger of poverty by means of the Structural Adjustment Act, but of course also families with many or with several children. Of course, these areas are at risk of poverty, which are particularly affected by certain measures in recent months. If you are following poverty debates from other countries, you know that poor people have to put their income together from different building blocks and components. And when a small building block is broken out, it is often very difficult and almost impossible for this group of people to make a replacement. The risk of poverty is increasing. Of course, we know that it is relative to what we call poverty here in Austria. Nevertheless, we also need secure figures on where poverty exists in Austria and in which groups. I would just like to point out that the relatively detailed social assistance report of the municipality of Salzburg, but also the documents made available to the municipality of Vienna, for example, indicate that a Billa salesman must already apply for social assistance at the social office. There are also these cases. The Social Assistance Report of the City of Salzburg says: There is poverty and the need for the use of social assistance in middle class families and in what is known as the middle class family. We know from all the documents available to us that poverty is still a rural problem, mainly in the country, that there are poor rural families who are heavily affected by the measures, especially in the Structural Adjustment Act. We know that poverty also has a gender, a female. Minister! They should therefore have the courage, even if, of course, there is this positive presentation of a social report – it is not consistently positive, as it is about reality – to complement this social report with a poverty report. I thought it was an actual progress if this were successful, and a quality which would enable us here in the House to discuss a little more about social realities outside on the basis of facts and actually to make improvements where they are directly and very urgently necessary. I have already suggested this to the Committee: As far as I am concerned in this social report is concerned, the time report. I would also like to encourage you, Mr Minister, to introduce a new chapter which will also give us some detailed information on the working hours actually carried out in Austria, but not on legal working hours, not on those which are being worked in the industry, but on the actual hours including overtime. I have already done so in the Committee and I refer here to this examination by the Ministry of Family Affairs. If the figures, which have obviously been published by the Ministry of Family Affairs on the basis of a microcensus survey, are right, then in Austria we do not have to do with declining working hours over a period of ten years, but with constant or slightly rising working hours. Then we still have to deal with a gender distribution of housework – a second area of which it would also be important to be dealt with in a social report on working hours. And then we are dealing with a decline, though only minor, of rest periods. From the point of view of health policy – we will discuss this again today – it should at least start by worrying that the actual rest period – that is, not the free time in general, but the rest time – is declining. We should be concerned about this. I think it would be worth devoting myself to this question: How do times, working hours, household hours, household hours, leisure time, rest periods, in a country like Austria? – This can also be examined, and it would help us, for example, in the debate on working time policy, if we could actually see to what extent overtime is done in Austria and whether this is acceptable and reasonable in view of rising unemployment. That would help us in the debate, and that is why, Minister, I would like to encourage this. However, I still have a very important point that I think has been missed in the debate, although it is an own report, which is the labour inspection report. In my opinion, the labour inspection report - I also said this in committee, Mr Minister - is a bad report because it fails to catch reality in some way. Mr Koppler does not know if he should agree. Let me give you an example, Mr Koppler: Today in the early days, a contribution has been made by the ORF on the labour inspection report: The number of accidents at work in Austria is declining, says the labour inspectorate report. - Oils say: Wrong! – Not only oillingers say that, but also the workers' chamber again. Of course, the data contained in the labour inspection report have nothing to do with actual development. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Only quoting yourself is a little too little!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] Mr Guggenberger! It must be said. I say now that it is indeed true that this data, which we have been served annually in the labour inspection report on the development of accidents at work, which it has said today, is very false, is simply and simply wrong, to an unthinkable extent. Now I call you the numbers, Mr Guggenberger, because I compared them to those of the Federal Republic of Germany. In Austria we had 168 000 accidents at work in 1960, I round the figures. In 1994, we have 164,000 accidents at work, i.e. a constant number of accidents at work. The reality in the Federal Republic: In 1960, 2.5 million accidents at work occurred, in 1994, although the Federal Republic of Germany has increased by 20 million people in the meantime, 1 680 000. – This is a decline! But not from 168 000 to 164,000! In Austria, we have a steady number of accidents at work over 30 years, while the Federal Republic of Germany has been able to reduce by more than 25 percent. I say that this different development is not a coincidence. We feel the difference on the other hand with the number of early retirement, Mr Guggenberger! We also pay for this with our social security system, that for decades we have not invested anything in prevention, that we have a completely underdeveloped, marod system of accident prevention. I am surprised to hear that Mr Donabauer says that the General Insurance Institute is mainly for accident prevention, for the prevention of accidents. On the contrary! For the least part – you know, colleague Guggenberger – in Austria, prevention is not only carried out in accident insurance, but in general in health insurance. The accident insurance operates... – No, it is not done. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Nevertheless, in the field of accident insurance, exemplary ones are done!]] We spend 3 percent on accident insurance for accident prevention. Do you know, Mr Guggenberger, how much the professional cooperatives, i.e. the accident insurance companies in the Federal Republic? – Between 7 and 10 percent. This is not a coincidence, it can be seen from the number of accidents at work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] One has to discuss the fact that this reality is not good, but one has to discuss it honestly. One cannot pretend to be good with the help of figures, which are so to speak separately from the labour inspection with a different basis of calculation. This has nothing to do with a serious discussion about the actual development in the field of worker protection and what really happens here in Austria to dramas in the enterprises. We don't have to do with a very beautiful reality. We still have to do with the fact that the number of early retirements due to invalidity in Austria is very high. It is therefore high because the appropriate measures in the preventive field are missing everywhere, because nothing has happened over decades. We pay the price for this poor health system in this area of course with rising and very high costs for early retirement due to invalidity. But it makes little sense to act like that. It would be more sensible to actually have more healthy people in the farms, but more healthy people not only in the farms, but also in the health system as a whole. But I will come back to a point that we will be dealing with later. I believe that there are simply deficits, and it would be the task of a labour inspection report – more than that of the Social Report – to highlight these deficits in the area of worker protection very critically. I am not saying a secret, Mr Minister, but the situation regarding the Workers' Protection Act and the Protection of Workers in Austria is not satisfactory. We have a law that you passed with timps and trumpets and praised as a great example of worker protection in Europe: the Workers' Protection Act. This law is a torso, an absolute torso with countless empowerment regulations for you, Minister, of which hardly one comes from your ministry, because the resistance of the social partners, the Chamber of Commerce would immediately prevent these empowerment regulations. We have a law that cannot be effective in any way, because the appropriate foundations are missing. We have a law that builds on risk assessments taking place in the establishments, but no one in Austria knows how to carry out a risk assessment. We have a law in which workers' protection of occupational doctors and safety technicians is to be monitored, but the relevant implementing regulations that are intended to organize this care, these preventive services are missing because the money is missing because the money of accident insurance is missing and because you are obviously missing too, Mr Minister! Such a law, which lacks the foundations for its execution, is not operational. We can say that we have made a law, but we lack the courage and the money to enforce and implement this law. This is not the right way to operate workers' protection in Austria. Minister! It would be worth being discussed more intensively, even in a debate on the labour inspection report. However, after I lack the time to discuss everything, I would like to end by bringing in two requests which – both of us have already introduced in the last legislative period – give a clear light to where the deficits of Austria have been for years. I have already referred to accident and occupational disease prevention. We therefore propose that the list of occupational diseases recognised in Austria be brought to a European level, Mr Minister. You know what I understand at European level. There is a European list of occupational diseases which is relatively clearly defined, which is to be understood. But in Austria they say: We're leaving time, we don't want it so fast, we're all going too fast. We still need decades before we learn that we actually have a mission here. If we do not fulfil this, then we will have to pay for it, so that in Austria people will increasingly suffer from occupational diseases, which we will then have to finance again through our health care. If we were to avoid these occupational diseases for the most part, Mr Minister, then it would have helped us all, and health care would not be so expensive. You or the competent authorities say that we cannot afford to extend this list of occupational diseases at the moment. I say to you that you are saving costs, and that is why we are making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] But I also have another motion for a resolution, Mr Minister, which concerns the Convention on the Prevention of Industrial Disorders. I'm saving myself explaining this now. We have already tabled this request and we have discussed it in detail in committee. I would like to read to you, ladies and gentlemen: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister! In conclusion: I would like to see, if we are discussing the next social report here, if we are discussing the next labour inspection report here, we – I know this is difficult – get it a little sooner so that we can discuss this social report in good time or before the next structural adjustment law, so that we can then give appropriate instructions to you, to the representatives of the government parties, and so that we can jointly prevent social reduction in the next Structural Adjustment Act. I would ask you to accept these suggestions in this sense, as I have described them, but also in the sense that last year – Mr Guggenberger will certainly do that – Mr Guggenberger suggested that the social report be made up not only of an analytical part but also of a perspective. Because, unfortunately, what we are discussing insufficiently here and today – in which one word or another word is shimmering through – is: Where's our social system going? Where are we going in the individual sub-areas? What measures would be necessary, for example, in the area of pension insurance to ensure the pension system beyond 2030, so that it does not only remain the same, but that it is harmonised – not in the sense of deterioration, but in the sense of improving for those who are already the worst in the pension system, because they are hardly or insufficiently covered by it. I am saving myself to explain in detail what I am talking about, but these would also be questions and tasks for a social report which we should not be afraid of. Of course, there are also the following questions: How is a social system organized in 2020 or 2030? Is there, then, this contribution system, this personal and employment-related contribution system? Are we going through with this? Do we need new foundations for a social system? What are the basics? Can it be the tax that replaces the insurance contributions? What problems do we face? Can it be the value added tax which is the new basis? Can it also be an ecologicalisation of the tax system? – These would be questions that we should also discuss in connection with the necessary reorientation of the social system. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that at least this joint debate, if not joint action, will succeed next time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7628	Mr Oellinger! I would like to say once again: The second motion for a resolution, which you have read, is that of fulfilling the content of Convention No. 174 and Recommendation No. 181 is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The first request made by you was not presented here, but I was informed that it is being tabled as a self-employed request and is therefore being negotiated separately. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Federal Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7658	Mr President. Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! The 1994 Social Report was sent to Parliament by the Ministry of Social Affairs at the end of last year. This report is a good report. It again notes that Austria has an excellent position internationally in the field of social benefits. This is primarily due to the Austrians themselves, of course, because they secure the necessary economic strength with their services, but also have a corresponding social feeling. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, at the beginning of my predecessor, Federal Minister Hesoun, who was still responsible at the time, I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry and also the Members of this House for having contributed to the fact that this report can be so positive in 1994. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] 1994 is the year in which, first of all, substantial decisions of the year 1993 have become effective. I would like to remind you of the introduction of care provision, the significant improvement in the billing of child training in the pension area, the complete restructuring of the labour market service with a completely new economic and social partner-oriented organisational structure. I would remind you that in 1994, after an expert opinion from the rationalization company Hausemann, a Swiss company, special changes have been made, structural measures, organisational reforms in the field of social security, which will continue and continue today in social security. These have also led to a significant reduction in the number of officials. All of these are things from this report. At the time, the social objectives of these years were in line with the good economic development, which also had better international forecasts. I would therefore also like to point out, after this report, that we were able to expect better economic development at the time when these decisions were taken internationally. It was therefore necessary because, unfortunately, these economic expectations did not meet the degree to which we have adapted the decisions to this economic development – adapted in the social field, adapted in the tax field. In the social field, however, after joint discussions with the social partners, with all the organisations concerned, starting with the disabled associations up to youth, and under the legislation adopted this year, these measures have been taken in such a way that our good social system, as is also described in this report in 1994, will continue to be an internationally outstanding social system in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have said that we have made all these corrections after good and reasonable cooperation, after talks with all the parties involved, and we are concerned that we adapt our system rationally and constantly to the economic needs and at the same time fully respect the social component. Therefore, unlike in many other European countries, there has been no incomprehensible response to these changes that we have made this year, which are socially compatible. I understand that the opposition parties would like to regret this and therefore repeatedly conjure up crisis situations in the social system. There are always needs for adjustment, ladies and gentlemen, but certainly not in any of the areas addressed, neither in the pension area nor in the health insurance sector or in the other areas. As an opposition party, you would like to have a crisis mood, but we do not need it in Austria, and neither do we, because we react with further developments – not with revolutions, but with evolutions. And if these seem too imaginative to you, Dr. Haider, then only because as opposition from these reasonable developments you cannot create an oppositional capital. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Billionholes without imagination! Increase contributions, shorten benefits! That's not an alternative!]] That is why you repeatedly ask urgent questions on issues that are discussed anyway. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can therefore explain to you even now on your urgent question, which you have already addressed here – it would therefore not have needed a further urgent question – that we will continue to act in the field of health insurance, that the quality of health care, the health care system will remain fully maintained and that medical progress will continue to be available to all Austrians covered by this social system. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I think you are not right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Reduction of wage advance payment!]] This is the basic statement in the field of health insurance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also do not fully understand why the debate on the Social Report will be debated all in the morning, and I still have an urgent question in the afternoon on the subject of health insurance, although it should be known from the press that it has long been announced that, as a government before the summer, we will present to Parliament those measures which guarantee that the quality of health care and the quality of health care will be maintained and that funding measures will also take place in such a way that there will be no social hardships. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You'll let that be our problem!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So far you have no solution!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are responsible for Parliament, not the media!]] It is in the newspaper when this will come, and we will also present these documents to Parliament in good time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are responsible to Parliament and not the media!]] That is why we could have saved ourselves one thing today: the urgent request. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I can tell you now that we have not only taken cost-effective measures in the field of health insurance in the previous year, but also in the way that there will be no deterioration in quality for insured persons. Those amounts, which are to be discussed, will certainly be brought in to two thirds by savings. We are still discussing this – before we present the report to Parliament before we have the 53. Novelle will present, and that will be in June – which will be further saving measures in this area, but, as I said, without deterioration of quality for the insured. I can therefore also explain to you, as you have repeatedly announced, the limitation of sickness benefit here, that already in the 53 under review. Novelle to the ASVG is included that the legal... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This has already happened!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This has already happened! You've already been cut short! They've already been cut short by the Wiener!]] The Wiener have made a decision, but nowhere has it been shortened to 26 weeks. Dr. Haider! In the draft already under review of the 53. Novelle is that in the future, the legal right to sickness benefit will be increased from 26 to 52 weeks. This is already in the novel, which will be sent to Parliament in June, and I assume, as Minister, that this will also be decided in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The health insurance companies have now taken decisions on a reduction!]] Of course, we will also have to make provision for the financing of this amendment, which I would like to say. I am therefore again seeking to ensure that people are not unabated by such statements, although I have already stated several times that we will be anchoring in the law the increase in legal claims from 26 to at least 52 weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what your health insurance officers have announced!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what the Wiener Gebietskrankephone announced, not us!]] But at the same time I have announced that this is already in the draft. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You need Parliament, Minister!]] This is already in the draft amendment, and Parliament will also take the decision in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't have a law yet!]] At the same time, we will ensure that financial viability will be ensured with socially acceptable measures and with savings measures in other areas which will not be borne by insured persons. I can only assure you this again. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To Mr Kier, who spoke on another item on the agenda, on the harmonisation of pension rights: In the area of pensions, we have always taken timely corrective measures. The last major innovation was in 1993, and again this year we have made corrections, intelligible corrections; for example, the number of months of insurance will be better taken into account in the future. The financialability of our pension system is therefore also given in the future, because we have always carried out and will carry out the corresponding socially acceptable corrections in time. I would remind you on this occasion that since 1985 the contribution rates for the pension have remained unchanged in the ASVG area. Although in the meantime the life expectancy of a 60-year-old has increased by two years, there has been no increase in contribution rates. However, from 1970 until now, the proportion of the federal government to the pension system in the ASVG sector has fallen considerably. I mean, this is proof of the quality of the system and also of its financial viability. Of course, harmonisation steps must also be taken, because our objective is that the General Social Security Act should actually apply to all. We will also take appropriate steps for new recruiting officials. New entrants have been insured for two years after the ASVG. These are harmonisation steps, which have not only been announced but also taken and will ensure the financial viability of the social security system well over the year 2000. I would not like to comment on the entire report here, but only on the labour market situation: The report shows that employment policy also had priority number one in Austria in 1994, as in all the years before and now. We have managed much better in terms of economic crises. I have been raised here on several points by Dr. Haider, and the range has ranged from tax policy to all the other problems in the government dealing with employment policy. I can only say this once again: For the government as a whole, ensuring employment is a priority for the social partners. A proof that the measures taken are also effective is the fact that in Austria we currently have a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of around 4 per cent according to international criteria. In the European Union, the unemployment rate is 11 percent. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that we are so much better than everyone else, but we must consistently take further action. I would remind you here of the measures taken in the area of infrastructure, investment promotions, other measures also in the tax field, and of the fact that, despite budget consolidation, we are spending considerable resources on employment policy. There are also corresponding successes. Today there have been more problems in the first months – certainly also due to weather conditions – than in previous years. In the meantime, however, the number of unemployed, which in January amounted to more than 290 000, has fallen; it is currently about 191 000, that is, more than 200 000. Again: As the trend is rising compared to previous years, we need to make efforts even more intensive than before in the field of international work and in the field of the EU. But no one can accuse the government and the social partners of deceiving this problem. On the contrary, it is for us the most important problem, the biggest challenge for the next time, which we also face. This is particularly true of young people. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in all of Europe in Austria, and I have already stressed several times that we will do everything we can to ensure that this remains the same. We are also now working with the social partners to ensure that everyone who is looking for an apprenticeship will also find an apprenticeship. We will also provide additional resources from the labour market service sector for these young people. We are currently planning to make 600 million schilling available for special measures in the field of youth employment in the labour market service. I believe that we will continue to be successful with these measures in the future. We must not underestimate this problem. It's the biggest challenge. Together with the social partners, we want to deal with this problem in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the special issue of Portuguese workers. – Dr. Haider speaks here again and again of Portuguese workers. I cannot now see whether which and how many are employed in the Burgenland. I can only say one thing: There are currently 179 Portuguese workers across Austria. In my opinion, this number of 179 Portuguese workers cannot be a serious problem for a number of more than 3 million self-employed workers. However, I would like to remind you again that we have always acted in good time and long before accession to the EU, that foreign workers, including those from the European Union, even though they work in Austria in foreign enterprises, even if they are based in the European Union, as well as Austrian workers in Austria, are entitled to the Austrian collective contract wage. I believe that this has been done in time to ensure that we do not have similar problems, such as, for example, in Germany, specific problems with Portuguese workers. Germany has only made a regulation for a sub-sector and has also responded much later. We have always responded in good time, covering the entire labour market area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question of Turkish workers. I see no reason at present to remove Turkish workers from our calculation of the foreign employment rate. Since they are still contained in this quota, I see no reason to correct in any way this quota, which has already been measured by the legislator, restrictively. But I am not in favour of increasing this quota either. The labour market situation requires an orderly and restrictive approach in this area. But again: There is no reason to make any corrections in this case because these Turkish workers are also fully counted on the quota. Finally, I would like to say that in the next few years the challenge will be the employment policy. Because a high rate of employment depends to a great extent on how good our social system can be. However, I assume that, together here in the House, too, we will be working reasonably on the development of our social systems, that we will ensure the quality of the social system in the future, with the greatest need at present for this quality assurance, together with the security of financing. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7929	Mr Van der Bellen spoke on business. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7950	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President. As you know, the Federal Chancellor of the Council of State Defense has been convened for 1 p.m. I think it's not business rules. As a result, Mr Wabl, too, has already informed Mr Fischer yesterday about this problem. The Members have not yet solved the problem of bilocation. One cannot be present at the same time in the Council of State Defense and here in plenary. However, it is quite clear that Members must have the right to take part in the meetings of the House. I see only two possibilities: either to cancel the Council of State Defense or what I would regret to interrupt the National Council meeting for an hour. I ask you to give your opinion on this, as I believe, not quite a minor problem.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7987	Deputies! I have no objection to the fixing of the dates of the Council of State Defense and I do not want to assess here the question of whether the deadline is illegal for 1 p.m. I will, however, inform the Chancellor of your concerns. However, the National Council meeting will continue. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8012	You have so decided, Mr President, as I would have suggested. But I am in favour of the basic concern of the Green Group. It is an unkind way of disturbing parliamentary negotiations by having to hold meetings in which parliamentarians have to participate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8042	Deputies! Since I was not one of the youngest members of this House, in addition to being a member of the Council of State Defense for many years, I can confirm that it was a use that was usually held while plenary sessions were not to be held by the Foreign Policy or the Council of State Defense, because there are also representatives of this House. I ask you to leave it now in this procedure. I will inform the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as soon as possible. This debate will continue. Mr Nürnberger spoke next time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8069	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to express my thanks to the officials of the Ministry for the preparation of the report, which facilitates our work in practice because it is a good reference work. It has already been noted here today that we are unfortunately discussing this report too late for the well-known reasons, a lot has already been overtaken and many parts of the reports have already been discussed on other occasions. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] But let me make a few comments on the minimum wage situation. Mr Oellinger has cited and addressed me several times in his remarks. It's a little too much of the honor he gave me here. Although I was able to realize some things in the area in which I am mainly active, namely in the field of minimum wages, together with the officials of our organization, we cannot be responsible for everything. Perhaps he should not have addressed his words to the trade unions, but rather to workers in that country. There is no success for workers where today a handful of employees will not receive a 10,000 s – since I do not now reveal a secret – there is no trade union organization, and where there is no trade union organisation – in practice it is very clear – there is no success for the workers. In the course of my remarks, I will look even more closely at the fact that on many issues, certain circles would prefer to disengage the trade union. It is also somewhat obsolete in statistics. It is no longer true of the number of workers with a minimum wage of 12 000 S today. Many trade unions have succeeded in achieving that the minimum wage is already more than 12 000 S, many of which are already more than 13 500 S. I can also say that Mr Haider, in his contribution to the debate, claimed that Packard Electric – the company was called by him – was part of the minimum wage of the employees there – he said that first – 8 000 S, then he spoke of 9 000 S. As so often, he has also said the untruth in this case. First of all, this is theoretically impossible due to the collective agreement, because the company would clearly violate the collective agreement, which, however, I have asked myself, is not the case. According to the applicable collective agreement – the company Packard Electric is subject to the industrial contract of the metal industry – the current minimum income is 13 560 S gross, without any supplements, and that at a 38.5-hour week. On 8,000 S, 9 000 S there is only one part-time worker. So successful, ladies and gentlemen, was also the metalworking union not that someone in part-time employment gets 13 560 s. For a normal working time of 38.5 hours a week, these 13 560 S grossto, when someone is idle, 10 409 S net, with someone who is married and has a child, 11 092 p. – This shows that this is not true what Mr Haider has said. The income situation of Packard Electric is such that no one actually receives the minimum wage according to the collective agreement, but of the 1,000 employees he mentioned, three have the wage group 7, but also more than what the collective agreement requires, namely 84 S, which is grossly 14 028 S. The average working wage is 92 S per hour. As so often has been said by Mr Haider on this issue in the House has not said the truth, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But let me now get some up-to-date questions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Incorrect information has short legs!]] It took two hours for me to get there, Mr. Klubobmann. Mr Haider is not here, but he will certainly be told. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're not that important again!]] I am also happy to provide him with the survey paper of Packard Electric, in which he can read everything. Let me now deal more closely with current issues, namely unemployment, especially because last week the trade union day of metal, mining and energy put this issue at the heart of its three-day deliberations. The problem of unemployment has a very high priority for us. At the same time, we have been concerned about how new work could be created. I should like to remind you that we have made a commitment to the social partners. We believe that the problems cannot be solved alone by trade unions, workers, employers and the government, but we can only solve the problem together. That is why we have made a commitment to social partnership. But I also said clearly that this partnership also means fairness and reciprocity. And the business base of a functioning social partnership must be: Benefits for all parties involved. Secondly, we have made a very important statement in the interest and responsibility that we have towards our country and the people working here, namely that we reject every test of strength between employers and employees, because we see from foreign examples where this leads – it does not lead to anything! We have offered employers a fair dialogue with them on how we can solve these problems together. I am pleased to note that we have received positive signals from many industrial employers. Ladies and gentlemen! But – unfortunately he is not present now – how does the senior employee of the Federal Chamber of Commerce react? For those who do not know who this is, I may say: This is Mr Deputies stupid. But perhaps Mr Feurstein is so kind, in the event that he does not hear my words about a speaker, to do what I have to say to him. I may quote here literally from the contribution of an interview in the "Mitagsjournal" which Secretary-General boldly gave two days after our trade union day. He literally said: "We must do something in the next few years, especially in the case of additional wage costs. We cannot finance everything about the additional wage costs. Today we finance social security, health policy." – So again also question pay additional costs... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I'm already here!]] I am just quoting from your interview, which you gave in the "Mitagsjournal", and I am referring to how you, as the chief employee of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, are opposed to many of your officials, who are pleased to see the dialogue we have offered to employers on our trade union day – many calls and letters testify that –. Now I'm dealing with your reaction to it. First of all, I have responded to the additional wage costs you have raised. They say again: Social security, health policy. If you no longer want to finance this in the future, this would mean that workers will either have to pay a higher social security contribution or a higher amount of self-sufficiency. This is a process we reject, Dr. stupid! The second in the case of additional wage costs: You say you don't want to reduce labour costs. Tell us what you want to do with the other parts of the additional wage costs! Do you want to delete the 13th and 14th, completion, vacation or what else? This too would mean a reduction in income. Now I come to the working time, Mr Dr. Stummful, and I am already telling you the following: Of none of our officials, not even in the discussion, a single employer has been defamed or discriminated against, there has been no attacks. You can read it in the Stenographical Protocol. But how you defame the functional standard and me personally, I will remind you now. It said the moderator in the "Mittagsjournal": "The union argues that the individual works councils may be too weak" – that is, the working time and the revision of the working time law – "to enforce themselves against the entrepreneurs. Workers need the union." Then stupidly says: "I think this attitude" – so according to the motto, the works councils are poor skipperl; there you first quoted the Nuremberger... Yes, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] At first, stupidly said: Mr. Nürnberger has a model... – and then it says that they cannot stand without a union. - I'll give it to you for reading. – In my opinion, this attitude is an incredible forethought – not to say: Arrogance – by union officials. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] Now I bring you an example, we come to the topic BMW, a parade example: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We appreciate the works councils!]] You will know what happened at BMW when it was said that the investment depended on whether or not to cancel the 50 percent overtime supplement. We know how this demands of the entrepreneur came about. It was only when the influence of industrial associations, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, was no longer present that reasonable discussions could be held between the management of the company, the works council and the trade union. Every point and addition was negotiated with the trade union in the BMW model. We have come to an intelligent working time model for BMW, Dr. Stummvoll, which could be indicative for many other companies – with the help of the trade union, this was negotiated! I would therefore like to know how you can, on the basis of which, to block something, not to be reasonable or similar. The model offers as an advantage for the operation: longer duration, even Saturday working class is possible – and then what I have always said comes, flexibilization must be a counter-traffic and must not be a one-way road – and as an advantage for the employee: generally more leisure and longer-related blocks. All in all, more jobs are created, because the introduction of the additional layer, which makes the model possible, as one can work on Saturday, requires more labour. And all that you were for, for example, overtime supplements, could be maintained, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Just a call! BMW is not the classic Austrian small and medium-sized business!]] I'm still talking about it. I could give you some other examples. There are two differences between us, Mr Dr. stupid – thank God, I am glad anyway! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] Dr. Stumbling! They are representatives of an organization that can call on compulsory membership, and because you now see that, as the vast majority – 80, 85, 90 percent – gives the workers the consent that the Chamber of Labour cannot weaken, you go on to the trade unions. I will remind you of your true attitude towards the trade unions. The difference is that, as a trade unionist, we have to make a new statement every day, members have to advertise, because membership is done on a voluntary basis. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I was in a free association for 25 years!]] The second thing I say to you, Mr. Dr. Stummful: The works councils are members of the union! With us the works councils are officials of the union. I'll tell you something else that distinguishes us two – you can then say: The Nuremberger is superlative!, but this is a real reason for distinction –: I have already said that: They are the highest employee of an organisation with compulsory membership. And if the Nuremberger had considered his works councils, which are part of the union for eight years, to be Chepperl, they would have accused him of arrogance, then he would not have been confirmed after eight years of activity with an election result of 98 percent! The numbers speak for themselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Congratulations!]] Dr. Stumbling! I would like to tell you the following with all the clarity: You have already made it sound quiet in a "NEWS" interview, and you have to turn the union off on working time issues. A few months ago, there was a press release – I'll find you; I've told you that before – in which you put the demand: In terms of working time, we have to shut down the trade unions! I can also remind you: ==References== In the collective treaty policy, the trade unions had to be shut down. – I can tell you this press release, too, I'll give it to you. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Original quote!]] The original quote, 14. March 1996: "We must get away from collective contract policy." – That's how the quote is correctly reproduced. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In what context? Total quote!]] Get out of here! I'll tell you something. We will not let ourselves be involved in working time, and we will not be adopted by you in the collective treaty policy. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is selective perception!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] The union will be there today, tomorrow and in 100 years, Dr. stupid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I say yes: Thank God there are reasonable employers, industrialists, entrepreneurs who are in favour of our proposals. Let me also, although this has already been done by Mrs Reitsamer, speak on the approximation of the rights of workers and employees, particularly with regard to Mr Kier's request. I could largely identify with his proposal if there were not a serious difference by a word that is very important. In the request of the Liberal Forum there is talk of a harmonisation of labour rights. When I recall what ideas the economists of the Liberal Forum have, for example, is a relic of the past, namely that the settlement is obsolete, that we have the 13th and 14ths. I cannot join this request for harmonization on a monthly basis, holiday grant and Christmas grant, but I must repeat the decades-long social policy requirement that the trade unions have made: approximation of workers' rights to those of employees. The millions of employees will certainly not be allowed to balance them somewhere to take away their well - acquired rights. Mr. Federal Minister! I know that you have a number of other major problems to solve – but in the Coalition Agreement, there is also a point, a pass on codification, which includes alignment – but I would ask you to be relatively quick – it is also the talk of involving the social partners in the Government Convention – the first initiatives to take the first steps to remedy this injustice that has existed for decades.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8299	Mr Dr. Stummvoll referred to an actual correction. - Please. The Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8324	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I correct the following statement by Mr Nürnberger: Mr Nürnberger has stated here that my true intention is to disfellowship the trade unions from the collective treaty policy. Ladies and gentlemen! This remark is absurd because collective agreements are only concluded by trade unions and employers' associations. The claim is therefore incorrect. On the contrary, I have always personally felt that models of flexible working time can be delegated directly from the legislator to the partners in the firm and that there is no need for a collective agreement for this small area.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8367	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8389	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would simply like to address one of the problems facing the negotiation, and that is the question of redefinition of self-employed work and the harmonisation of all pension rights. My immediate predecessor has already pointed out that this group is not a new or newly debated problem. This is a problem which has been repeatedly highlighted over the past few years and decades, has been brought to the table over and over again, and which, in fact, we in the Liberals are very much in need of a solution or, at least, an initial approach in this direction. We have always asked ourselves to stop pushing these things to the long-term bank, and we do not want to say today that we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which makes up the relevant item on the agenda. In fact, it is not possible to explain to anyone why similar activities, similar transactions, differing assessments, depending on whether the worker concerned, employee, contract staff, civil servants – or what may happen to one. People come into the offices of those who deal with such things – that will be no different in the Chamber of Labour than at the union and is so with the lawyers – and describe what they are pressing. They come with their concerns, have wishes, have problems. And the first question to be able to judge at all what can be enforced is: What are you? Are You a worker, are you an employee, if you are in the public service, are you a contract officer or are you an official? Different rights, different possibilities, different obligations, different burdens on one and the same activity – which, often by chance, the person concerned has found in his working world. That's unfair! And, ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of injustice, which, I believe, is recognised by all, including all political groups in this House, must be addressed at least. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This cannot be done because it is a complex and extensive complex, it should be pushed out again and not begin again, because it must not be said again: They are all for it!, but actually do nothing, but at last one must lead to the elimination of these injustices! It is this distinction in individual categories of workers – in the same and in the same way, in good and in better, more legitimate and less entitled – not only an unfair, not only an incomprehensible, but also in no way in a contemporary way. In recent years we have learned that workers will have to get used to being mobile – mobile not only in their own interests, but also because we all want to be able to focus on the fact that there are self-focus where they are currently being used; mobile in a matter-related way. There are entire working groups and branches that dry out, which are almost extinct, and there are others who are trees. It will not be possible to do so in the long run, I hear again and again – and those who say that are right – that someone who has learned a profession who has given himself a job, can expect to work in this profession until his retirement. Each of us has to expect it, each of us has to rely on it, the general public has a claim that one is physical and also spatially mobile! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, spatial mobility is unfortunately opposed to a legal problem, which is thought to be far too rare and far too little in this context: the whole legislation on housing law. All over the world, it's like this: If, for economic reasons, someone should go elsewhere for professional reasons because he is needed there because he gets a post there because he deserves better, then he does it, then he looks for an apartment there, moves there and gives up the old apartment. This is unthinkable in Austria, because since the emergency regulation in the First World War – then incorporated into the rental law – this is excluded. Once someone has grown or fed up an apartment somewhere, he is nailed to it until his blessed end. It commutes for life, often over hundreds of miles a day, it is going back and forth for hours, just because it can't move anywhere else under any circumstances because it doesn't get an apartment. I do not need to explain separately what the economic situation means in a wasteful time and wasteful money, waste energy, environmental pollution, transport hazards and cetera. But, as has been said, it requires professional mobility and spatial mobility. It is precisely this mobility that opposes arbitrary, accidental and unfair classification into the most diverse boxes of categories of employees. When we go, my Ladies and gentlemen, about adaptation in the sense of the proposal we are discussing, then it must be so – on which we Liberals of course insist – that the adaptation must not be such from the top down, but only one can be from the bottom to the top – it probably understands itself. We will take part in all efforts in this direction, and we will see that not the better-doers are misplaced, but the bad-doers are gradually improving, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another thing to do is: I accept the request that the careful authors wish for something to change for those who are already in employment, for those who are already in retirement, everything remains with the old and only for those who enter new working life. This is a change that will be made to the next millennium. I cannot imagine that the majority of those who work today will be for decades, when they are younger, that the majority of pensioners will also bear the injustices and their consequences, and that only those who start new and will retire in decades will be able to enjoy the long-term simplifications and harmonizations. We are of the opinion that older workers, seniors, and those who are already retired, too, should gradually benefit from the benefits of just harmonisation, and not only those who are now growing up in schools and eventually enter the profession! Other things would not be enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This will also include enabling older workers to work as long as they can and want to work. This is not a matter of course in the public service today, because it is well known that, even if you are pumping healthy and want to work longer, you have to leave at the latest in a certain year. I have experienced more than once that officials in the highest possible field of their activity had to leave with great wealth of experience, had to make different places, shed bitter tears and cost taxpayers a lot of money. It will be necessary to ensure that money is saved in the way that capacity is freed on the way that, if someone wants to, one can work longer, that he is given the opportunity to exercise his profession for as long as he is half able and able to do so. In other words: The arbitrary differentiation by individual categories of workers is unfair. We will make a strong contribution to this, and we will vote today to ensure that this injustice is finally remedied, that at least steps are taken in this direction. However, we are in favour of adapting only to the top and not to the bottom and that it is not only symbolic of new people entering the work process, but also of those who are already inside and also of pensioners.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8501	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8519	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two more comments before I go into the report. First of all, I would like to turn to Mr Ollinger – he is not here right now – and I believe that when we discuss this report, there must be no disease. We have the best social system in Europe and the best health system in Europe – we must maintain it, but we must not abuse it. I would like to say to colleagues from Nuremberg: I was a little surprised and thought about it: Is this now a social dialogue outside the house or a discussion on the report on the social situation? [[Abg. Kiermaier: Both!]] Both, good. In my opinion, however, it was not really related to the report on the social situation. I now come to the report on the social situation and want to take three areas out. The first is labour market policy. This report states that there are three priorities in this area. First: Activating before provision, mediation and promotion before administration, as well as securing, creating and improving jobs before unemployment support. I believe that this is a good thing and that these three areas must be given priority. The fact that the performance of these tasks costs money is clear, however, that I am somewhat incomprehensible, is that employment offices demand billions for job placements in order to make them more efficient. I believe that labour market services should not only manage existing unemployment, but must in future make very targeted active labour market policies. This means that there must be a dynamic in the labour market in order to obtain it. What do I mean by that? – For example, 85 percent of currently reported unemployed persons with only completed compulsory education are women, most of whom are women. In other words, we must focus more on continuing vocational training, re-training and qualification. The second course of education must also be strengthened more than ever. In the future, we will not only have one or two occupations per lifetime, but probably even three learned professions. I believe that the second course of education must be forced and also recognized. We must not create a two-class society or an unemployment society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, we should also consider the protection of the profession, whose absence would significantly improve the means of mediation. If you have continuous periods of employment, you should also have time for a new vocational orientation. There are different models in this respect that could really be implemented. We should only do so. The next area is the distribution of income. Much has already been said about the minimum wage and so on. There is, however, a very serious point in which nothing has changed at all: the area of equal pay for equivalent work. Much has not yet been realized. The fact is that men earn 27 percent more for comparable work than women, but this does not include part-time employment. I believe that we urgently need a gender-independent evaluation of work. There are already models in Switzerland that have not only proved themselves in the public service. It would be time to make changes here, because then it might not be as easy – as is often claimed by the more often, while I am not sure that this is really true – to cancel women rather than their male colleagues. Another very important area is the EU. The Minister has also mentioned this, and I would like to stress that there has been a great deal of work in this area, particularly in the field of Community initiatives and in the field of social and training action programmes. I would also like to say, however, that the approval of these projects – be it now the NOW projects or others – is only at 31. It was completed on 1 May 1996. I must say that it is well ordered to us in the Styria, and we also thank for it. We were approved of the 12 projects, while southern countries, for example, were granted only one. This also depends on the countries. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the next submission period will be 15 years. July 1996 – this is a very short submission period. We have only brought an empty year behind us, perhaps we are able to make arrangements for the future so that the submission times are not so short-term. I would also like to encourage or ask that the regional consultants, project managers and project managers, as well as the women's representatives in the countries, be included in the institutions' preparatory work. I know that there are considerations about outsourcing them to the labour market service facilities, but perhaps one can still get a link. Finally, The technical assistance for these projects is currently working very well, only one can see that it is anchored in Vienna. In the future, however, it would be very important to go out to the federal states in order to guarantee the quality that is already present there – and that is why I ask.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8563	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8584	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger obviously has problems with the liberal position on the 13th and 14th. Monthly salary and for processing. Therefore, he was once again written in the main book: Dear colleague Nürnberger! The following cannot be defended and cannot be justified: A Director-General earns 200 000 S a month – I give her my heart – for her 13th and 14th she gets 400 000 S, of which she pays 6 percent taxes: That is 24 000 S. The secretary-general of Mrs. Director-General, who sits in the front room, earns only 400 000 S a year and is subject to a 32 percent limit rate. What Mr Nürnberger has to defend in this social asymmetry I do not really understand, because in reality it is a form of improving the best-earners in our country, the self-employed minister who is absolutely incomprehensible. We Liberals have made it quite clear several times that the 13th and 14ths of them. The employee's salary is part of the employees' income to which they are entitled monthly, and the employer has no right to abstain from his employees by state standardisation of this money by June or November. These are stone-time positions that you represent in this respect! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Dear Mr Nürnberger! Think about it before you comment. The second position is the finish. It is also obviously about stone-time positions. The completion is part of the salary of the employees who will be deprived of them during the time of mobility. We need mobile employees at a time of mobile business. However, the change from one position to another must not be hampered by possible processing claims. Let's make it to the 1st place. 1. In 1997, we will pay them out as they have been handled so far, no longer create new claims, and the collective contractual partners will now have the task of adding this percentage to them once, in accordance with the current burden of handling – this will be different for insurances than for construction workers or other industries – and will pass it directly on to the employees. Both measures would not change labour costs, but lower labour costs and increase wages, and we would be able to achieve comparable salaries in Austria. The fact that you hold on to Austriani such as finishings or fiction that there is a December, December and a Quatrozember in Austria is really bizarre – but perhaps you will still learn from my colleague, Nürnberger. Social benefits, ladies and gentlemen – and this is the reason that I, as an economic speaker, have allowed myself to speak, are increasingly wrong. Employees with additional social rights bring an additional cost package on the free labour market. These higher labour costs, caused by protection provisions created for them, reduce their competitiveness on a competitive labour market. What's interesting about the entrepreneur? – The labour costs. If an employee costs 300 S per working hour and another 350 S because he has received a package of protection provisions, the decision will fall for the employee who has a cheaper labour cost rate. That is the economic reality, and whoever refuses this economic reality, ladies and gentlemen, is a real objector, or he doesn't understand anything about economy! In this respect, I would like to comment on two requests which we are negotiating on this comprehensive point. On the request of Mr Haidlmayr: I believe that the employment of disabled people is a very essential social and humanitarian issue, but to propose to increase the cost of compensation to the average gross wage burden is nothing more, ladies and gentlemen, than the increase in additional labour costs and thus labour costs. Instead, you have to cancel the notice of termination, then you can increase the disability tax. When we get rid of the termination protection, I'll call myself an increase in the recruitment tax. I know a large number of entrepreneurs with whom I have also spoken, including a large economic fidelity who employs over 100 people. He says: I could give room to five or ten disabled people in my company. But as long as there is a protection of termination for them and this, as the figures show, is only very reluctantly removed through the Employment Committee, I am too likely to accept a 27-year-old disabled person, a 32-year-old disabled person, with the risk that I will take them up to the age of 60. It is important for us to work on a birthday and to be able to cancel it very hard or not at all. You think it's wrong! They impose a cost burden on these disabled persons through irreplaceable termination protection provisions and thus exclude them from the labour market ipso. Please understand this economic argument! In the end, you can't pass that. It is important for us Liberals to force more strongly in the field of disability. We are also willing to talk about increasing these compensation taxes – but only if, at the same time, the termination provisions are flexibly flexibilised in order to prevent a person concerned from being hindered solely by his own labour costs on the labour market. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I discussed the question of the holiday law with you last November and have now tried it again. I also do not know who you are, in the end, serving. We are all talking about employment problems and about unemployment that we must fight. We are talking about the special fate of seasonal unemployment. Seasonal unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, is caused by changes in demand, not by the jux and tollery of entrepreneurs, where you can only work a few months a year, because that is funny, but because they offer services that are asked for only a few months, some times a year. It is totally absurd to tax such an employee from the first day following a six-month term of service with a cost position equal to three weekly wages. Faith You really believe that a business owner, an entrepreneur, can afford an employee who, on the first day after the six months of temporary employment, will pay three weekly wages for a single day of work? This is because you, ladies and gentlemen, of the coalition parties who have decided and insist on the National Council. Dr. Stumbling! You have decided to do this as a member of the Chamber of Commerce. Mrs. Reitsamer! I have clearly explained it to you. They therefore decide to increase unemployment. They therefore adopt a seasonal reduction law. Do you understand? After six months of temporary service, 15 days of vacation are due, leave. A day more means holiday compensation, the service relationship goes on for more than three weeks. That is, the first working day after the six months costs three weekly salaries. It says the basic economic reason, that is a clear sign, an order to the Austrian entrepreneurs not to extend temporary service conditions over six months. This means that you will decide on a seasonal reduction law, thus creating unemployment. You've got to get that straight! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It almost sounds like a joke when I literally quote from the ÖGB news service – I quote literally! –: "The circle of those concerned who do not receive a service relationship beyond six months due to the above 6-month limit cannot be too large." So they risk unemployment just because it's not too big.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8688	Mr Seidinger is now on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8709	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the midst of the debate on the 1994 Social Report, our Social Minister Franz Humeinige made important clarifications: This report from 1994 came about when the economic situation in our country was not the cheapest, but also the laws which we passed in 1993 in this House came into force for the first time and came into force for the first time. But let me address this 1994 Social Report with a few necessary figures: In 1994, there were 360.39 billion Schilling expenditure in the area of Austrian social security, compared with 358.64 billion Schilling. We can say that this is a minimal outcome. In addition, where one has to point out that three-quarters of all contributions come from the insured. There are 5 million health care professionals and 2.7 million co-insurers. This means that in Austria, unlike other countries, we are in the happy situation that 99 percent of the population are ill-insured and thus protected. The number of pensions as such increased more than the number of employees. There are currently over 3 million pensioners or pensioners. In 1994, 593 pensioners came to 1,000 insured persons. This figure has remained almost the same over the last ten years, but according to the demoscopes, it is not expected to improve in the course of the coming years, but, in some cases, to worsen. At the level of pensions only a few figures: The maximum possible ASVG pension is without allowances and grants – but only after the last state of affairs; this does not apply if someone retired 10, 15 or 20 years ago – a little over 26 000 S, widow's pension is less than 16 000 S. This is certainly lower compared to the official's pension. Because if you start the average pensions at 13,000 s – I meant the maximum pension – this is only one third of the official's pension. The pensioners – and this is also to be said very clearly in this context – have contributed a great deal to the consolidation programme that we decided to adopt in the spring of this year by means of the measures of the pension reforms which have been set up since 1985, 1988 and 1993. It is about 200 billion schilling, which is the result of the various adaptation and harmonisation measures and last of all by the measures adopted this year. We as pensioners – and as their spokesperson I am here too – say yes to the pension reforms. But you must not, as one likes to try this over and over again – the media have contributed to it – to conjure up a generation war. There must be solidarity between young and old. You must not put the thought into the room today: Who knows whether the active persons or those in 10, 20 or 30 years of work are at all ready to pay for the older generation then. I think that's an exploration of the magnitudes. Today there are coverage contributions to the ASVG-pensionists with 89 percent. The federal grant – which the Minister of Social Affairs has repeatedly noted in recent months – has not increased, but has even fallen from 22 percent to 11 percent. I also believe that it is necessary – today, for example, health insurance and health insurance contributions are still coming in the context of an urgent request to the language – to say here that there have been ideas and that there is still a need to remove health insurance contributions from pensioners, for example, in the order of 0.5 percent, because this does not burden the additional wage costs of those still active. I don't think that's the right way. With minimal increases in contributions, I can imagine these deficits – proposed by Mr Sozialminister – as an ongoing way of dealing with workers, employees and pensioners in minimal form. One thing we certainly cannot take note of – I believe that this will also be widely accepted – is that self retention is also lifted by the ASVG-pensionists to the extent they are required. Because if you get 20 per cent for every medical service, for every hospital stay and the like, then I look at how it is possible to ask that of those who certainly don't have it the thickest in the cash register. Mr Haider has turned out again today and said many things, including many half-truths, many untruths. He said, for example, that he was planning to build an administrative building of 300 million schillings on the Steiermark County Hospital. That too is something that is not true. Once there were plans, there was a basic purchase from the local health insurance fund. The project would by far not have been in the order of 300 million schilling, but that is exposed, it no longer exists, because because of the tense situation one has to do other and more important things. More often today we have been talking about how to do all that in our Social system is as model-difference as it can finance in the future as to how to find new forms of value creation. Again and again, the value added tax is emerging, and it is confirmed that fewer and fewer people are developing an increasing added value, that there are fewer and fewer people in the halls where these products are produced. I believe that when it comes to pension increases over the last few years, we must also note that these were above the price level. The increase in the purchasing power of pensioners has increased, although we cannot conceal that no trees can yet be torn up for single people from 7 500 S to 7 887 S and for couples from 10 700 S to 11 253 S. One thing that concerns us is that about 80 percent of all new recognitions take place before reaching the statutory retirement age, women 58 years old, men under 60 years old. There is also an increasing trend towards early retirement, less to the sliding board. Let me also make a few comments on labour market policy. The labour market situation: At the end of May 1996, the unemployment rate in Austria – which everyone can read – was 3.7 percent according to the EU's value-adjusted methods. Austria is thus one of the leading countries. The EU has an unemployment rate of 11 per cent, the total OECD 7 per cent, and the job miracle USA, which is repeatedly conjured, has an unemployment rate of 5.5 per cent. At the end of May, more than 3 042,000 persons were reported as self-employed in the main association of social insurance institutions. Towards the end of May of the previous year, employment continues to decline, but the decline in employment has decreased significantly. At the beginning of this year, we had an unemployment rate almost 300 000. It is now 200 000, but it is still too high and too much. As it has already been said here that social democracy has adopted social competence and does not care for the unemployed, I believe that there are many approaches, many ideas and many projects, including legal ones, to create jobs again. Only it is not the legislative authority's task to do this, but it is also the task of the economy – with all possible support – to ensure that the number of jobs increases again. What the State can do, it does, whether it is training with quantitative and qualitative expansion of offers, whether it is vocational preparation, vocational orientation courses, labour testing and training measures. The "Action 8000" has been continued. Since 1984 we have had 40 000 people employed temporarily. We also know that we have created special programmes with more modern methods this year, in the form of general workers' redundancies of non-profit nature – not meant here only the leasing of people. However, we also have the sad record of long-term unemployed in the federal states of Lower Austria, Styria and Vienna. He's almost 70 percent here. Age unemployment is a burden which simply pushes many out of the economy into invalidity. They are presented with the fact: If you voluntarily waive wage and salary components, your company will release only 10 percent or 15 percent of employees; if you do not waive it, it will be more. This release into the voluntary pension is not really voluntary, but is a pressure to which we are exposed and to which many people are subject. The measures taken by the AMS, the care of these people, are truly worth seeing. We are pleased that there are many labour market instruments to help these people in need. There are pilot projects in the federal states, and I think that should be used. Something that has also been created – but I don't know any success figures – is the bonus-malus system, are different projects of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, safe jobs, longer active, a welcome to employers, even to give up contributions and not to cancel them if they are willing to give people back work. Because nothing can be more depressing and nothing can be worse for someone who wants to work than not get this job. I believe that this right to work should be redefined once again by the law. We know that it is becoming increasingly difficult, internationally, to accommodate people on the labour market, and then a small country alone cannot move forward with exemplary courage and new ideas. Only one thing is reserved for Austria: it will also put employment, jobs and social security at the forefront of efforts within the EU. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8818	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8840	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1994 Social Report has improved considerably in its quality of expression over the last few years. This does not mean, however, that the content, which is shown in this social report, can make us break out in joy. On the contrary. I looked at him, I couldn't go through the whole area of this social report, but I looked at the disabled: What has happened in recent years? What does it look like now? What measures have been taken to re-establish the integration of disabled people as part of society? I am now taking up the point of the Social Report's Disability Law. For seven or eight years now, we know that the number of disabled persons employed has declined year after year. In 1995, we already had an unemployment rate of over 30 percent. This unemployment rate of more than 30 percent did not simply happen in 1995, but it has already been shown in the 1994 Social Report that the employment obligation of enterprises, the German federal government and countries is a cause of an increase in the unemployment rate. It would have been your job, Mr Social Minister, to work in this direction earlier in order not to raise the unemployment rate even higher in the disabled. But nothing has been done against this development. The compensatory tax increased by a total of 60 s from 1994 to 1996. If you punish a company or the federal government and the countries by demanding a 60-s higher compensation tax over the two-year period, you will not create a single job. You won't secure a single job either. This allows you to radically reduce only disabled jobs. The Federal Government and the Länder are still not prepared to fulfil their obligations of recruitment. In 1994, nearly 64 000 people with benefit were confronted with 69 000 duties in Austria. This would have meant that all jobs should have been occupied and even 5 000 jobs could not have been filled, because there are no more disadvantaged people. That's how it could have looked! But reality is another: Of the 69 000 duties, only 40 000 were employed. In other words, 42 percent of all service providers are exempt from their employment obligations by the minimum payment of 1,920 S. No change has yet been made in the calculation of the key number. Bund, countries and communities still enjoy exceptions, they do not have to hire a disabled person per 25 employees, for you another key applies, and they have to hire a disabled person per 40 employees. This makes it much easier for the Federation and the countries to escape their responsibilities. Minister, I ask you: What do you intend to do to reduce unemployment in the disabled? – In recent years, nothing has been thought of by what was promised in Sunday's speeches and what would be very important to disabled people, namely work. There would be enough work for disabled people, but one should be willing to create laws that require service providers to employ disabled people. With a compensation tax of 1,920 S, you can never motivate a service provider to hire disabled people. I have looked at how the employment of disabled people is actually happening with us. I came up with something that I really think is scandalous: Companies that award orders to so-called protected workshops receive back 15 percent of the sales volume. But it is not asked: Has this company fulfilled the recruitment obligation – yes or no? Minister! If an entrepreneur does not employ a disabled person today, he must pay 1,960 s. However, if he passes on a contract to a disabled workshop, he gets back 15 percent of turnover. I do not think it is difficult to calculate what is lucrative: of course, an order to protected workshops and not the attitude of a disabled person. One more thing, Minister: It is also striking that only 223 000 s per person were used up on average in the case of job creation measures in the disabled, where about 500 000 S per person was paid for a training site. Why is that so? I can tell you: Disabled people have been underpaid, they are still there. A non-inhibited employee has on average received a base amount of 500 000 S for a work-related measure a year. In the case of disabled people, it was only half because in practice they earn only half of what unimpeded people deserve. This is unfair, this is a legal imbalance, and you are asked to do something about it at last! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have received your answer to the question of National Fund in the last few days. The coalition will know why it has been teaching the National Fund by 1 000 s per year. At 1 000 s a year, the National Fund is being disbursed! In the years before, it was between 20 and 10 million schilling. Today disabled people in the total are worth only more than 1 000 s. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] – Mr Guggenberger, don’t interrupt me! – Now I have insisted that the National Fund still has 22 million schillings on unused resources from the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: How's that? There's still money in the National Fund, and you didn't give it to those affected? Either you fed the National Fund with any sums that were entirely contrary to any reality, or you have not fully satisfied the claims of the promoters. The latter is the case. I looked at the requests. Let me tell you what it is that you reject applications to the National Fund, although the National Fund has been overcrowded over in recent years, and that there are still a lot of money left in the National Fund each year. I expect a clarification of this, ladies and gentlemen. I also expect the clarification of the question as to how, in view of the fact that in 1994 17 million Schillings were paid out of the National Fund and an increase of around 21 per cent is to be achieved annually, in 1996 and 1997 with 22 million Schillings in total. Your answer, Mr Minister, was: The disabled people must now try to obtain financial resources from other paying agencies. Minister! Have you forgotten it, or do you no longer want to know that it was you yourself who always participated that all other benefits, whether from the health insurance funds or from the compensation tax fund, have been taken back massively in recent years. There has been no additional funding there in recent years, you have deleted us a long time ago. You have reduced the resource catalogue; and now you reduce the National Fund. What that means, you know that too. In the future, people with disabilities will need to contribute even more to their own self-services in order to maintain their standard of living. If today a blind person has no financial means of obtaining training alone, then he can no longer study. If today a blind woman or a blind man no longer gets a PC financed to carry out his studies, he can forget his studies. That is already the case in practice. I know enough students at the University of Linz who have been fighting for years to replace their disability-related failures with and receive funding. You don't get the tools. It has also significantly extended the study of disabled people, because unfortunately there is a lack of the necessary framework conditions. Minister! They even take back one more piece of these framework conditions. I would like to know what it is that it is justified, Mr Minister, that, for example, in the compensation tax fund, study and apprenticeship aid has been reduced by 17.1 percent. I would also like to know what it warrants that the grants for the creation of a living have been reduced by 33.3 percent. I would also like to know what it is that the grants for orthopaedic aid have been reduced by 20 percent to blind and hearing aids. Minister! They know that through these reductions you have restricted disabled people in their existence. If you say that is not the case, then I suspect that, for example, the means of existence have been reduced only because disabled people can no longer afford a life outside of stationary facilities. That is why they do not need any more means to start up, because life outside the home is simply no longer possible. With these cuts, almost no one can afford to live self-determinedly in one’s own apartment, but one has to return home. But what that means and what that means, I hope not to have to tell you again. I have said this very often in recent years. On the other hand, you, Mr Minister, have greatly increased those incentives which go exclusively in exceptional measures, namely in stationary facilities. In 1994 you spent 41.3 million schillings for stationary facilities, for self-determined life or for outpatient care services, on the other hand, only 17.3 million schilling, although there is an agreement in the Federal Government's 15a Treaty of 1993 that outpatient services must be preferred to the stationary. That's what happened with 1. 7. It was decided in 1993. It was different again in 1994. The stationary area has received three times as much as the ambulatory area. Also show with it You're clearly heading in the direction: Back to home! One more thing, Minister: They mentioned a new area in the Social Report, the so-called aid advice. That sounds very good. I thought that was a new thing that brought it, and allowed me to ask the Federal Social Office about this assistance counseling agency once, because I needed advice. As the report states that, for example, tools, addresses of distributors, repair facilities, prices of aids et cetera, and as you can also request brochures there, I have called. Now I'm telling you the result: I was told at the aid counsellor's office that the ergotherapist was only available daily from 8 am to 12 pm, but it was not a problem anyway, I could already have my information. I should call this orthopaedic company – I don't call any names now – and there one would tell me what the aid I need will cost me. Now I ask you, Mr Minister – I really have to laugh at this information –: Have you even signed a contract with the bandagists? – I don’t need to call the assistance counsel so I can get the address from the bandagist to find out what the wheelchair costs. I have this address anyway! Instead, I assumed that an aid consulting agency is the place where I get absolutely non-binding, completely disconnected from each bandagist simply an Austrian-wide price information. Then I can freely decide what I want to buy. It's not like that! Minister! If you think that's a reasonable innovation, then that's a huge error! What has been done there – I have now only tried it in the aid sector – is nothing but an additional cementing of the contracts of the bandagists with the health insurance companies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But because this is so and because, of course, the bandagists now have even more power and can determine their own pricing and explode the costs in the aid sector, try on the other hand to take back our performance claims. It is now being discussed, for example, that, for each wheelchair, only more than 7 000 s should be paid, no matter what the wheelchair actually costs. If he costs more, that must be paid by the affected person himself. Whether he has it or not is his problem. If he doesn't, he'll have to go to the hospital until he saves the money. If he has it before, he doesn't have to lie in it for so long. That is the reality, Minister! I'm not saying anything hypothetical right now. For example, if my wheelchair is broken in the weekend, I have to go to the hospital. I have to stay there until my roll is repaired. It was not possible to require even a single bandagist in every larger city to set up a Sunday service. At present, I don't even have the opportunity to borrow from the hospital an old wheelchair, to which I don't make any optical claim at all, for two days until my repair is repaired. My stay, however, costs the hospital at this time 12 000 p. That's the reality! Regardless of the fact that it is not funny that the wheelchair is broken and you have to lie down in the hospital – I have also announced that – a man from the Red Cross told me: That's not so tragic, then just stay in the hall until Monday. So my thinking was to find out what I prefer: to put me in the hospital or to sit at home for two days. Minister! There has been a need for action in this direction for years. There would be a huge potential for savings, and this saving would be justified, because it did not go at the expense of disabled people, but at the expense of the horrendous prices of the suppliers. But you do it the other way around, you save on the disabled instead of where you need to be saved. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to reconsider my remarks and some details on disability in the 1994 Social Report. I would also like to ask you, in your next report, to clear out of the entire unemployment rate how many disabled people are included in it and how many disabled people do not appear to be beneficiaries, because they have never worked – even this has been in my stomach for a long time. Minister! As a beneficiary disabled person, you will only be classified when you are at work. If you don't get a job, you'll never become a favored disabled person, and you never seem to be there. That too is to be considered. I would ask you to answer my open questions in the 1996 Social Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8978	Mrs Apfelbeck has made a statement on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Three minutes of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Seidinger said in his speech that Dr. Haider had not told the truth about the new construction of the Styrian County Hospital. It was a long time ago, and the construction was suspended. In fact, I am – I am correct – in the budget of the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse of the 13th century. 3rd. In 1996 15 million Schillings included planning costs. This was not long ago, but only three months ago. Secondly, ==References== 10. ==References== The construction committee of the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse took place and, under item 2, the extension of the administrative and ambulatory buildings of the Steiermärkisches Krankenkasse (Stiermärkischeskrankenkasse) was decided upon. The following decision was adopted unanimously: A new building is being built on the property KG Jakomini EZ 27 Graz, Friedrichgasse, to expand the administrative and ambulatory buildings of the Steiermärkischeskrankenkasse. Estimated total production costs, estimated tolerance plus/minus 10 percent, the planned new construction amounted to 255 970 000 S without VAT as of December 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9033	President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9054	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the advantage of such a general debate on the social situation that one can not only talk about specific issues here but also go into the basics and address the fundamentals of social policy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is no coincidence that this debate has also been very much debated by the previous speakers, which is, in fact, the central issues throughout Europe today, namely the question of jobs, the question of social security, the question of how we can secure work. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite good, as I believe, when we recall in a social debate that the foundation of all social policy, the basis of social security, is in the end jobs, businesses and productivity. Ladies and gentlemen! We must take note – and this is also the basis for all the reforms in social policy – that we today have a huge competition for jobs worldwide, a competition such as that between the Pacific and North America. Europe is trying to position itself as a location between these two dynamic economic blocks. Within Europe, Austria is also trying to position itself accordingly. In addition – and this too should be said again and again in a social policy discussion – the fact that a country's once-developed prosperity in the economy needs to be re-developed daily. This means that if the world is on the move when a dynamic process of job creation is in place worldwide, we must also be flexible in social policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that worldwide, on the question of jobs - I am trying to put it to the point - only three factors are actually decided, namely the factors of quality, flexibility and costs. Quality ranges from the quality of the labour force to the quality of the infrastructure. Flexibility covers the whole range from flexibility in working time to flexibility in public authorities and in plant permits. Costs cover everything, from labour costs, additional labour costs to environmental costs and resulting environmental costs. Ladies and gentlemen! But if it is the case that these are the global location factors – once again: Quality, flexibility and costs – then these three criteria must be included in every social policy debate, in particular because – I mentioned three examples – the quality of the labour force, the flexibility in social legislation and, of course, the cost of social and labour law systems have a significant impact on whether we have jobs, whether we have businesses and entrepreneurs who are willing to invest in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! What I'm saying now might sound a bit overstretched: But with some of the social demands that we have heard today, we must pay great attention to the fact that we may not have a good social system on paper one day, but in practice no more jobs! For me, therefore, job security has absolute priority, also from social policy motivation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should also be talking about the problems of health insurance in social policy – I am speaking specifically in the current debate, even if we are going to talk today about the problems of health insurance – and have the courage to speak the truth and also the courage to express things that are clear to everyone in the political debate, but which are very often said in the political debate: We can't say that, that's social reduction again, you can't take away anything from people! What do I mean by that? I mean, for example, the current discussion on the financing of social health insurance – an essential element of social security. I claim here and say it completely freely: Basically, in the longer term perspective, we have only three options, which is because we have an enormously strong performance explosion in medicine. Almost daily we experience new spectacular achievements. Of course, if we need it, each of us wants to have a heart pacemaker, have an artificial hip, get a kidney transplanted or have a heart valve operation, ladies and gentlemen. This is an incredible performance explosion, and we will only deal with it if we are honest enough to say that it is the task of the insured community to cover the major risks, and it is not social reduction, if one says, financial small risks – I say now as an example: at the level of 35 S, 40 S, 60 S – the individual is to take over himself. For example, I simply ask: If a prescription is currently worth a prescription fee of 35 s, who can seriously claim that the same amount is unsocial for the doctor's visit? We have already excluded the chronically ill and the minimum pensioners at the recipe fee. But today claiming that an increase in the prescription fee is social, but a minimum fee for the doctor's visit is not honest. I come back to the three options we have through the progress of medicine. First option: We finance all that we already finance today, and in addition to all future medical progress. This means, in the longer term perspective for the worker, that at some point we would have to reach a state in which we would have to transfer the entire income to the health insurance fund at the first of the month. For the firms, it was said that we had such high labour costs that we could no longer obtain jobs. So this is an option that nobody wants. There is theoretically a second option, namely to say that we do not finance all the expensive progress. That would be classic two-class medicine, and we don't want it either. But if we don't want the variants one and two, because we don't put jobs at risk or transfer our income sometime at the first of the monthly health insurances and don't want to have two-class medicine, then there's only logically one variant to say: Of course we finance all medical progress, we do not want two-class medicine, we want everyone to receive the same benefits, but if we want to, then we have to transfer financial micro-risks to ensure medical progress to the individual. We must not object to this and say that this is a reduction in social security. That's grotesk, ladies and gentlemen! This is rather a guarantee of the financial situation, a guarantee of social and medical progress, ladies and gentlemen. Let us be so honest as to say that clearly! Let us not argue demagogically, and let us no longer fear telling people the truth! People have much more common sense, they have much more healthy feeling than some – than some, Mr. Colleague – can say about us in the political debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me give you another example: When President Maderthaner first discussed the financing of the first day of the illness four years ago, there was a commemoration. I consider this proposal to be much more social than what is now happening, namely, after 26 weeks to stop the sickness benefit. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: We don't want that!]] Our philosophy is: High risk coverage, small risk can be taken over by the individual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should tell people the truth. We should be honest, not pretending that we can finance all that we have financed so far in the future. My Appeal It is therefore: Let us take this social debate as a reason to mention things by name and to have courage for truth. People are putting up with the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9115	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9136	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate on the 1994 Social Report, there has been a great deal of basicity in the area. I am right, Mr President, if you think that more truth would be acceptable to the Austrian citizen. I have always been a follower of the opinion that people should not be able to adjust the view of the essential and the actual with false paravents. I would therefore ask Mr Seidinger to consider, in a calm minute, whether the demand for self-preservation in the field of local health telephone is really a matter which is not in question, at a time when the insured persons have already kept a number of self-preservations. In the case of prescription fees starting from service contributions to orthopaedic articles, to glasses, and in the case of dental replacements up to the daily costs in hospitals, the form of self retention in this area has long been given. They have been introduced year after year, but without having the effects that could be expected of self-preservation, namely cost transparency and understanding of the interests of social security as a whole. I believe that the debate on this area will lead to an urgent question from 4 p.m. on. The 1994 report on the social situation clearly states in that chapter, which concerns social security and hospitals, that in the 1988 to 1994 period, in the health care centres which were the subject of the KRAZAF, there was a 36 per cent increase in the number of doctors, a 33 per cent increase in care and care staff and a 44 per cent increase in the number of administrative staff. I am saying this so clearly because I believe that the hospitals are neither a hotel nor an administration apparatus, but should actually serve to make the Austrians healthy their most original and original task. I therefore believe, Mr Federal Minister, that it would be clear and clear that outside the KRAZAF area, the administrative shares of those who move on the relatively free market, which is limited in scope of a free market, are lower. There you have to think three times, four times what you need for administrative staff, in what form and in what size. But where the majority of the State is the service provider, namely the countries, the municipalities and the federal government, the figures to be read for each one in the social report are indisputably high. Mr Oellinger and Mr Seidinger. They have been dealing with the division of Dr. Haider in connection with the comparison of foreigners with the domestics here and have thought that what has been put into the room in this respect is too dry and too simple. I should like to refer you to page 41 of the 1994 report on the social situation. There is the following: "According to the 1995 population requirement, a foreign population of 713 000 stood at a number of approx. 384,000 Austrians abroad. Most of them lived in Germany (185,000), Australia (30 000), Switzerland (29 000), Brazil (22,000), the USA (21,000), South Africa (17 000), Argentina (15 000) and Canada (8 000). Of the Austrians abroad, 89 000 in Germany and 31,000 in Switzerland had a genuine service relationship in 1994." I would now like to know from you what the difference between Dr. Haider's statement in the context of the conversion and this official statement in the Social Report is in. This social report is admittedly excellent and provides a truly good basis for work for all those who work in this area. There are a lot of data to be found in it. So the difference is only in the breakdown, in which countries are Austrians, and in which else nothing can be found. I therefore believe that it would also be appropriate in the discussion if there were no other basis for discussion in its own official publications. Those who say the same thing at a limited speaking time with the same figures should not be accused of simplification and should be subject to contributing to the uncertainty of the population. I think it simply is immoral that we should measure by two measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In a report which contains a little more than 340 pages, there is enough space to include in the appropriate form what is always being used for the other policy of insecurity. Only a few comments on the "good social situation" mentioned in this report. I think we should look at how unemployment and poverty developed during the period under review. On the topic of poverty: The 1995 poverty conference reports: Depending on the method of calculation, between 700 000 and 1.5 million people live on the poverty line in the rich country of Austria. – That, ladies and gentlemen, are the examples! This affects 50 percent of households with a single earner and two children, but also about 70,000 owners of small businesses. Then comes the execution of who is at risk of poverty. At risk of poverty is the one who has at least half a lower per capita income than an average budget. In 1994 these persons were no more than 6 000 S per capita per month. As far as the report is concerned. I do not think that we need to beautify it, and we do not need to do anything worse about it. At the time, the situation was much better. There was still increasing employment in Austria at the time; unfortunately, we are far away from this today. Net loss of 37 000 jobs. We have 82 percent – 82 percent – of the insolvency that was then reported for the whole year 1993! – achieved in the first five months of this year. You can read these numbers yourself, they are published by the Federal Offices. Of the 50 000 more jobs, nothing is left but the announcement. I am quite right to my colleague, if he believes that in this situation we should finally go about creating the necessary framework conditions so that people are ready to create jobs again. We should not give political speeches and change the framework from one month to another dramatically, so that there is no continuity and therefore no new jobs are created in that country. Now on a point that Mr Haidlmayr has related here. We have always meant that there is a serious abuse of home charges in the area of the caregivers. I have now found a current evidence which cannot be presented as a liberal denunciation, but which is clearly and clearly based on a legal basis of this Republic, namely, the 165. Supplement to the Stenographical Protocols of the Salzburger Landtag of the third session of the XI. legislative period, the request of Members Dipl.-Vw. Hofer and Blattl to Mr. Landeshupttelrepresentative Buchleitner, 29 of the supplements of the Salzburger Pflegegeldsgesetz. There is under the request to point 4 the following passage: However, it should be noted that in 1994 costs were higher for those in need of care than in the previous year, of course also from the point of view of the levying of high care benefits, because 80 percent of the homes of the rural communities were too high for the inhabitants. These two factors gave the impression that home tariffs had been raised overly high. In 1995 every second public homecarrier – every other public homecarrier! – an overstated classification is demonstrated. The review was carried out in the form that the average annual net working time was compared to the care periods charged. This has enabled many homes to prove that they take care periods into account, which they can never provide with the existing staff. These included homes that would have to increase the number of employees by 100 percent. – The social-democratic head of state, Buchleitner in the original tone, read in the number 165 of the additions to the Stenographical Protocol of the Salzburger Landtag from the third session of the XI. legislative period. [[Federal Minister Hums talks to a Member of Parliament.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Would you stop the conversation, Mr. Minister?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we have always suspected of in the field of caregivers is now at least for the federal state of Salzburg...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9181	I beg you to apologise for the interruption. Mr Fischer has already asked that the talks at the Intergovernmental Bank be somewhat restricted. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is immense!]] Thank you. Please, honourable Member, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9207	I hope that I have also explained to Mr Social Minister Hums the Salzburg situation so far that he finds it dramatic as an employee representative and finally ensures that home charges are reduced to the level on which they are actually to be reduced. We want fair care fees, fees for services that have actually been provided. It is not to be charged to the pedigrees by up to 100 percent higher and beyond, for benefits that have never been provided. Ladies and gentlemen! This process of public – public! – Care facilities in these areas I simply and simply regard as a pigry. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The professional expression is fraud!]] I'm forgiven for this expression, but I don't think it's beautiful. In fact, those who are to be in security, satisfaction, secret atmosphere and in security in this social state will be shamelessly exploited by this social state. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is a fraud!]] Mr. Federal Minister! There's a need for action for you. In their homes, the Salzburgers have supposedly stopped these abuses. I urge you to ask Austria to do so. These are not Lappalia, they are dealing with the poorest citizens of this country who cannot be tolerated! I would urge you, Mr Federal Minister, to act so that we do not have to read in the 1996 report that the malaise of 1994 and 1995 remained at the expense of the poorest of this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9259	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9281	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this debate, I should like to limit myself essentially to making a few comments on disability policy in recent years and in particular on the request made by Mrs Haidlmayr. I'm allowed to give her a premise: Disabled people have much harder to find work in this country. If a disabled person becomes unemployed, he needs much longer than his colleague to find a job again. We must therefore all strive to put as many measures as possible in order to bring people with disabilities into work. However, Mr Haidlmayr is not right if she believes that, in addition to the private service providers, the Federal services of this obligation would also get away in a bad way. [[Abg. Haidlmayr refers to the social report by keeping it up-to-date.]] There are some of them, I'll give you the right. But honour to whom honour is due, and that is also mentioned in this debate: The Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has fulfilled its employment obligation to more than 200 percent, and other public services also do so. That must also be said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a number of considerations, on many points we meet, in others we are considerably apart. For me and for my group too, the amount of the compensation tax is too low. Ministers Geppert and Hesoun have already tried several times to achieve a noticeable increase. We must note that this requirement is not a majority. But if, in your request, Mrs Haidlmayr, you ask that this compensation tax should be increased from 1 930 S to the average gross monthly fee, i.e. 15 000 S, 16 000 S, 17 000 S per month, then that is so irregular, then that is so far from any feasibility that we unfortunately cannot accept your request. [[Abg. Haidlmayr nodd]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr shakes the head]] For such demands we are not to have. Yes, to a moderate increase, and in this direction we would also like to argue. But we can imagine reducing the number of jobs and the number of people required. They know that at present businesses with 25 or more employees per 25 employees have to recruit a disabled employee. Let us take a look at the Federal Republic of Germany: There you have to hire a disabled person per 16 employees. This is quite a number of which I believe that we should be able to focus on it. It is also superior to eliminate the still existing benefit of the local authorities, the public authorities, in other words, in the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. It must be justified by nothing to justify it by nothing. It is also questionable whether the premiums we pay to workers' contracts which they employ with disabled workers are actually efficient. So there is quite a need for action, and we are considering it. Mrs Haidlmayr! You are not right, either, if you think that the compensation tax fund has not been spent at all in recent years. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: For special measures!]] Look at these statistics! Let me give you some particularly remarkable figures. But in one you're right again: You are right to see that the number of study and apprenticeship aid funded from this compensation tax fund is declining. But for this there is a very simple, plausible explanation: The number of applications has simply and simply fallen in this area. Look However, the figures in other areas are as follows: Technical assistance: a plus of 108 percent from 1994 to 1995. Grants for start-up: a plus of 78 percent. Other mobility aid: a 55 percent increase. I could add some more figures to this list. Mrs. Colleague! Instead of showing up here and selectively spreading a few negative figures, I would invite you to give more honor to this area of truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Because you cut the National Fund, Mrs. Haidlmayr: They turned out here and said that the National Fund would provide 1 000 S for disabled people. You know exactly that is not at all true. The National Fund currently has a budget of 22 million Schilling at its disposal. In recent years, we have spent an average of 15, 16, 17 million schillings per year. That means that with these 22 million schillings we will easily get over the rounds even this year. It won't be a problem. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: And next year?]] Also for next year there are some reserves. We shall surely give thought to something. You can be sure that we will give some room for imagination here. One last point you'll allow me to cut. With regard to the protection of termination, Mr Peter said that the protection of the dismissal of disabled workers was an obstacle to recruitment, which would cause the establishments not to employ disabled persons. I am allowed to report a little from the school of practice; as head of a Federal Social Office – the Federal Social Offices are known to be responsible for these termination procedures – I can say something about this. In the last five years in Austria, we have had a total of 350 applications for termination of disadvantaged people. The vast majority of the cases have been agreed within these committees. There the social partners are represented, there are the disabled organisations represented, there is no juxtaposition and tolling at any point in law, but it is very close to life, it is managed very practically and spoken right. Many, many applications have also been made against the disabled. I mean, those who say: We cannot employ people with disabilities because the protection of termination prevents us from ever bringing them out again, out of self-protection. They pretend that they are pretending that because they are not at all interested in employ ing disabled people. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is all too sad reality. But I'm allowed to define one thing: We are the last to want to wall, we are the last, the good arguments are not accessible. I can well imagine that we also have a clarification on this instrument with the disabled organisations – and this is a very important comment: with the disabled organisations – and with the social partners. Overall, we are willing to make further improvements in the field of people with disabilities – with the aim and with an eye, just as we have done in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9360	Mrs Motter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9382	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on a subject that is dealt with in the work report of the Labour Inspectorate in Chapter B 5.2, namely the working night of women. According to the report for 3 136 female workers, exemptions from the ban on night work were granted in 1994. In 1993, there were 2 578 more. It is clear, therefore, that the number of special licences is rising. Recently, as we all know, injustice has been eliminated in the professional image of the bakers. Finally, women are allowed to work as equal workers in this profession, which they have chosen, and it is hoped that they may also experience equal pay through this scheme. I also accept the report that the infringements of the night work ban have increased by 21 percent from 1993 to 1994. The labour inspectorate, in enforcement of the women's ban on night work, is faced by large resistance from employers, but also by female workers. We know, Minister, that our current women's ban on night work is contrary to the EU principle of equality and that a gender-neutral arrangement must be made by our side by 2001 at the latest. This also means that we must submit a proposal to the European Union by 1997. Minister! I know you're planning a general relaxation of the night work ban. They want to work together with the social partners on a draft labour law. I also take your statement that a new law, which should benefit both workers and employers, from 1. ==References====External links== Therefore, Mr Minister, I call on you today to fulfill your promises and not just to pursue a policy of announcement on this matter. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is not a question of women losing their jobs because they are not allowed to do night work, although they would be willing to do night work voluntarily. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be able to discuss an appropriate legislative proposal here in the House as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return briefly to the remarks made by my colleague Helmut Peter, who has already dealt with the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. Mr Guggenberger, I believe that our motion for a resolution, which I will then be tabled, can be accepted by you with good conscience, because I take your statement that this is also a real concern to you. We Liberals welcome the will expressed in the Coalition Agreement to make the provisions more flexible, but today we wish to exert a gentle pressure in this direction with a motion for a resolution. In view of the increasing dramatism of the situation of the disabled in our working world, we would like to see the present unsatisfying situation fixed soon. We therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your assent to this motion for a resolution today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9460	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dr. Moser has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9484	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Social tolerance, social acceptance are not empty keywords in Austria. Whoever is really in distress can be helped. However, it is important to keep an eye on it and to fight against structural recklessness on the difficult way to live family life. 62 percent of Austrian women between the ages of 15 and 60 are employed, and a well-trained woman has an ever-increasing, small, narrow window of life-design to lead social security and career between 23 and 35 years, but also to create an apartment, to seek a partner and to have children. The declining birth rates speak a clear language. Allow me to address a little risky thought here as well: The problems of our future will not be to produce an even smaller radio, an even better mobile phone, or even a coffee machine, which automatically recognizes when the owner has a desire for coffee. The problems we face in the future are social nature, starting, for example, with the protection of our pension system, the fight against addiction for young people, the prevention of the two-thirds society, and the education of our children. To accompany children in their lives is still a matter of the house mind today, and the inability to carry out conflicts in partnership and above all not to lose sight of the well-being of children is in least cases taken as a reason to take advantage of professional assistance. The psychological need is great, and it is obvious that the catastrophic effects of internal family conflicts reported by the media every week are only the summit of the iceberg. We must ensure that family and working life are compatible, that children can grow up in constant and stable conditions and that the co-existence of men and women succeeds in partnership. Moreover, our attention must be given to families who are subject to special burdens, such as parents with disabled children or single parents. The number of children from divorced marriages is increasing, and it is a challenge for us to take care of this future generation of parents even now, to recognize their needs in order to be able to meet these needs effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the most urgent questions we need to find answers to. From statistics and surveys of recent times, we know that it is a longing wish of most young people today to have a harmonious family life. On the other hand, the daily reports in the media, but also stories from the immediate circle of acquaintances and the life story of many friends confront us with the fact that this desire becomes reality only in the rarest cases. This is terrifying and leads to the conclusion that private and social reality are only more badly able to convey skills for a happy and satisfied life between man and woman. To illustrate this, I would like to give a few examples here. The everyday life of a family today is in the field of stress of work, training, care, living, in-house and out-of-home leisure. Not always the families are able to balance the tensions: Mothers rightly complain of their two and three times the burden of household, occupation and child rearing, the fathers are unable to participate in family life, and the children are not right and can no longer build in the closest family circle the trust that is essential for successful adult life. Children who come from exhausted families sometimes have deformations of personality development or psychosocial disorders. The contention of conflicts makes many families extremely difficult. Divorce as a way out does not rarely result in the partners not yet achieving a reasonable outcome of their conflicts. A lot of porcelain will be crushed, and the slight interchangeability of the partner will help yours to do so. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Communication possibilities and dispute culture are not taught. In this context, I should like to point out once again what my predecessor has already started in the family ministry and what I have set up in a three-stage plan: the parent school, which has nothing to do with school banking pressures, whose first stage – communication training, dispute culture, personality development et cetera – is to join in a partnership. It is crucial for a non-ideological assessment of the question of family and profession that the compatibility of work and family for women and men in all phases of the family cycle as a general model of our society no longer corresponds to the stated needs. There is no question that children in their first years of life need a stable and loving environment for their development. It is equally undisputed that children today are wanted for emotional reasons and parents expect meaning and enrichment from a life with children. It is only logical that, as the 1995 family and family policy study by Münz-Hofer shows, women themselves clearly articulate their needs, consciously raise this early phase in the life of their children and either pursue part-time employment or devote themselves fully to childcare. Full-time acquisition in this phase of the family cycle often results in external constraints, according to the study. The task of family policy must therefore be to create the framework conditions that allow mothers as well as fathers to meet the desire to be able to devote full or partial time to the care of their children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is possible by the fact that, on the one hand, the performance provided by the caregivers is Idealy recognized as material, on the other hand, satisfactory models of part-time work for women and men are forced and the successful return to working life is greatly facilitated. But we must also encourage women to trust themselves in work and career, and men to take care of child rearing and household. Finally, let me say a few words about another study by the Economic Research Institute, written by Alois Guger. In the media since December 1995 reports on the effectiveness of State transfers and in particular family policy services have been found. It should be noted with all clarity that only a very small part of this study was produced there, and that in tendent interpretation. Fat-printed key statements were simply not played, the basic statements were shortened and thus distorted. The differentiated statements of the author became one-sided. However, it has clearly stated that two-thirds of children live in the upper half of the income distribution and therefore two-thirds of the funds flow there. In the lower areas of income distribution, there are many pensioners, and therefore the proportion of children – and accordingly the middle streams – is low. The media play cut short on the statement that little money is going into the lower levels of income. De facto are also much less children there. Despite the expenditure, the funding allocated amounted to around 3 900 s per month and to 3 000 s per family in the top three. In the case of karenz money, the lower incomes per family were paid out statistically 600 S in karenz money, in the upper third 100 S. If the individual measures are taken in total, family allowances, i.e. the sum of funds distributed, are distributed almost as much as the children by income classes: The lower-income third with 17 percent of children and 17 percent of family support goes on to medium- and upper-level areas: 38.3 percent of children receive 37.5% aid, and 45 percent of children receive 45 percent of the aid in the highest third, most children. Finally, I would like to draw up an important quote: Family support is clearly redistributed vertically from top to bottom. The top third of income pays 68.7 percent in the FLAF and receives 42.7 percent of benefits, the average third pays 25.7 percent, and 39 percent of benefits, the lower third pays 5.6 percent and receives 18.6 percent. The third with the highest income is net payers, the other groups up to 40 000 S gross household income are net recipients. If you only look at the families, then you see, around 90 percent are net recipients compared to the childless.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9596	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. According to computer, maximum speaking time: 26 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9617	Mr President. Federal Minister! As part of the Social Report, there is, of course, much talk about the distribution of income, the distribution of labour, the distribution of life opportunities, but there is not only the social report as a source, but there is another essential study, which has been prepared on behalf of the National Council, but has not yet been allocated to it. This study concerns the impact of public budgets, i.e. revenue and public expenditure on households. I agree here briefly from the Stoneographic Protocols of the XVIII. The legislative period, from the meeting of the 21st plenary session, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. To quote March 1991 – I will tell you who is talking about, but not yet. It was the debate on the 1991 budget, and a Member said at the time: "And I think it is certainly important that, in order to make our budget debate easier, we try to obtain even more information from economic research on the impact of the state budget, and I make the following request: (...) The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to commission the preparation of a new comprehensive study on the impact of public revenue and expenditure on the distribution, allocation and performance of public tasks in the course of time and in international comparison." The honourable Member continued: "I believe that if this study is available to us during the next debate" – the next budget debate was meant – "it will be possible to eliminate some errors." And the protocol says: " [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The speaker was Dr. Johannes Ditz, then MP. And the request was a joint request from Dr. Novotny, SPÖ, Dr. Ditz, ÖVP, Mag. Schreiner, FPÖ and Dr. Petrovic of the Greens on the distribution effects of the public sector. This motion for a resolution was, of course, adopted unanimously at the same meeting at the time. That was 1991. At the time, Mr Ditz meant that it would be nice if the results of this distribution study were available for the next debate – in other words, in 1992. That was, of course, a little short-term. The study was not available in 1992. But neither was it available in 1993, not in 1994, neither in 1995 nor in the budget debate over the years 1996 and 1997 – that would have been a few months ago. It is still half closed, Mr Trattner. In the newspapers you could read a lot about it, and if you try, you can get it too. You can only never be quite sure: If it is the final or almost final version, have it still been corrected or not? In any event, I can remind myself that, in 1995, Mr Petrovic, on every occasion, urged the Minister of Finance – then Lacina – to finally present the study. Finally, he was very much aware of this permanent record and said that it should be noted that the study will be given irrevocably to Parliament in the autumn of 1995 – not a day earlier, but not later. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and we can no longer beat the former Minister for Finance Lacina. The fact is that the study has actually been completed quite in time. Here she is. [[The speaker showed a study.]] It is dated November 1995, but you never know so well: Is that the final version or not? It is alleged that the Ministry of Finance has suggested correcting some of the passport, what do I know? In any event, I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, who is not formally responsible, for the study has been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance and I assume that it is also paid, but in terms of content, the Minister of Social Affairs must be interested in this study, which is at least the largest distribution study in ten years' time, I would say, that this study takes the usual course, that is to say, the Council of Ministers, the National Council, the Committee and the plenary are discussed. This is the usual case if I am not very mistaken about the Rules of Procedure, what happens to such studies. Finally, it is nothing but what has just happened to the Social Report. I do not know why the Himmelpfortgasse is sitting on this study for half a year and leaving it there in any drawers; they have found journalists in their hands anyway. There will be nothing so cruel about it, I suppose, that the Federal Government does not want to give it up. – Good luck in this sense, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9693	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9718	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the 1994 report of the Labour Inspectorate today, I should like to say straight away that control can only be useful if it is not reported. If other political groups are constantly calling for labour inspectors to come into operation only after notification, I must say: I remain opposed to these demands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a result of my daily work in the company, I was able to see that control over the protection of workers is only useful if it is carried out without a notification. The importance of unannounced checks illustrates the following examples. In 1995 a total of 575 cases relating to non-compliance with work rest were raised in Styria. There were also 3 057 cases concerning the employment of young people. However, it was only possible to detect these maladministrations because the checks were carried out unannounced. Protection of the interests of workers is mainly a protection against occupational diseases. In order to prevent the emergence of occupational diseases, medical care is necessary. At the end of 1992 there were 129 establishments with more than 250 workers without a business doctor; At the end of 1994 there were only more than 34 establishments with more than 250 workers without a business doctor. It has therefore been reduced to a third by the consistent procedure of labour inspection within two years. I hope, however, that these will soon be brought to zero. ==References== On the basis of the new legal situation, a number of entrepreneurs are also required to establish a medical care scheme for which this obligation has not yet been met. ==References====External links== In the event of a special risk of health for more than a third of all workers, all workers must be included in the new Workers' Protection Act without exception. Ladies and gentlemen! If one compares with 1994 in 1993, it can be found that occupational diseases fell by more than 20 per cent. In the year under review, the labour inspectorates sent 2 702 ads to accident insurance institutions on the suspicion of a occupational disease. 143 occupational diseases surveys were carried out by labour inspectors or labour inspectors. In 1993, we had 779 cases of hearing damage caused by noise, in 1994 it was around 589 cases. This means a decrease of almost 200 cases. This reduction is due to a reduction in noise levels by the technical equipment. If the proportion of hearing loss is still very high, i.e. 53.7 percent, these hearing damage will not only be avoided by carrying hearing protection. That is why I would also advise the FPÖ Members who are committed to punishing workers if hearing protection is not carried out rather to reduce noise levels by means of technical equipment, because I can estimate what it means to have to perform with heavy heat and heavy work with hearing protection. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In conclusion, however, I would also like to thank those companies who are concerned about providing and creating healthy jobs and who are in favour of cooperation with occupational health professionals and the workforce representation. I also see the report as proof that only unannounced checks by the labour inspectorate are successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9778	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9799	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1994 Social Report has already been brought to our attention at the end of 1995 and we are now holding the debate in mid-1996. Of course, this delay was caused by the preferential national elections last year. The Social Report was actually timely in this House, as we have always suggested, but it is being discussed too late. This shows that in principle these elections have not changed, but rather increased the problems. Ladies and gentlemen! I personally consider this social report to be a reference work on figures and facts as to what laws were passed, how they affect what costs they have incurred and what developments they have taken, and how social benefits spread throughout, but also as a reference work on income development, income differences, pension development, employment development, unemployment development and, of course, whether the legislative changes have proved to be successful or not, where the lever should be set up for the future, and where fundamental reforms are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have to deal with a sum of proposals which have been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and which have not received any agreement from the coalition. We are experiencing rising unemployment, and it is simply too little for me, and it cannot be a comfort if it is repeatedly pointed out that in Austria we have a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 4 percent, but in the European area, in the EU, a rate of 11 percent. We also have a small offer of open spaces, which has not been the case in the past. Warning words from economic researchers who show that the pension system is so unsustainable are apparently being blown into the wind. Working time models are created, but the Federal Government and the social partners seem to be simply over-needed here. Today we are dealing with a wave of early retirements, even now reinforced by the newly created malus system in the unemployment insurance law, which was only decided in spring in this House. My group and I myself have shown that this malus system is counterproductive. The debate on the Structural Adjustment Act also gave us the proof of this when the Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber, Mr Stummvoll, told us 14 days after this malus system had been decided here in the House that this malus should be rethinked. Ladies and gentlemen! It is just fatal to pass laws in the Husch-Pfusch process without thinking about their effects. With this malus system, this was clearly brought to our attention. Basic reforms will be necessary throughout the social field, especially in pensions, labour law, labour inspection and working time law. Equal conditions for both public and private employees are necessary here. If you look at the population pyramid, you know that in the future the state provision for pensions will not be sustainable as it is now. We need to work on other models. We set up a Pension Scheme Act in 1992, but it is hardly adopted in Austria, and private provision is now being hampered by the limited possibility of writing down. Ladies and gentlemen! Harmonisation of labour law, both in public and in private, will be essential. Privileges and injustices must be reduced. It is intended to bring the workers' rights into line with those of the employees. The differences in health insurance contributions are to be removed. [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo, Dolinschek!]] I am pleased, Mr Koppler, that you are my opinion here. I hope that you will also show this if we make a request on this subject in committee and then agree to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the past, Mr Koppler, that was not the case. There are differences in health insurance contributions – there should also be an approximation. However, there are also differences in certain collective agreements. We know that today, Mr Koppler, you will also know that as a works council, there are a lot of workers who are subject to the collective contract of private employees, but others to the collective agreement on metal mining energy. There are many workers who do exactly the same work at the same workplace, on the same machine, but for which different collective contracts apply, and in this sense too there must be a reform. We must take account of certain sectors, and it is certainly necessary in the future to act accordingly. Today, the Federal Minister for Social Affairs has also meant that flexible working time models must be created together with the social partners within the framework of the Working Time Act – of course! Longer machine availability, longer continuous leisure time for employees, longer calculation periods would be necessary. But I, who I work in, know for myself how hard this is possible. For the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and all employee representatives, including the Chambers of Workers, are pleading for a maximum of 45 and for a minimum of 35 hours a week. That will be a little too little to be able to work flexibly. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the other hand, intends to increase weekly working hours to 50 hours or more without compensation for the overtime supplement. Of course it can't be that way! I would like to comment briefly on the holiday law. Although there should be no deterioration for workers, I am of course in favour of the entitlement to leave aliquot per month to make up one-twelfth of annual leave. We see it now, especially in the season industry, that there are difficulties. The expectation of unemployment benefit has been increased to 26 weeks. If a person is terminated before 26 weeks of age, he has virtually no right to unemployment benefit. If he is employed for a day longer, the holiday entitlement of a whole year is due for the respective service provider, which also does not have the effect of promoting employment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, immediate reforms are necessary. We have tabled a request on this subject. Many people today prefer their lives in unemployment because they are being punished by the system in Austria, because the state provides certain control effects which also prevent a worker from taking up a job that is worse paid than the one he had before, because he is exposed to the danger that in the future, when he becomes unemployed, he will be calculated just after this new earnings. It can't be like that, but it should be regulated here, taking retroactive action so that it doesn't get any cuts for someone who is willing to work. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to foreigners' employment. The family move has already been addressed. In Austria many apartments are missing. We have too few apartments on the market for Austrians, we have too few kindergartens in Austria, we have very few teaching places, and we have too few jobs to be able to do another move – that is, of course, coupled with this family combination. Today, the Austrian families are being punished by increases in contributions, by self-holding and by reductions in benefits. However, the increases in contributions have reached a ceiling in Austria, and they are particularly tragic, especially if at the same time performance reductions are in the house. It is therefore high time to act, ladies and gentlemen, basic reforms are necessary, but not flickwork. You should not play fire brigade if the fire has already broken out, but you should take steps before it is possible that no fire can break out.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9851	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Drinkl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9872	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the report of the labour inspectorate is also on the agenda today in the course of this social debate, I should like to make a few comments in this context. The protection of workers affects the interests of employers and workers alike, so that this issue requires a great deal of understanding from both parties to the contract. There is, I believe, no employer who is interested in the illness of his employees or in accidents at work in his company. Against this background, this report on labour inspection is indeed quite a welcome one. The number of accidents at work has not only decreased significantly, but has also resulted in fewer injuries and, as a result, in fewer cases by the labour inspectors. You can see from this that worker protection is given the greatest attention in the establishments. We must be careful, however, because workers' protection laws are sometimes so extensive and so complicated that they cannot be implemented in practice without special seminars – it is a pity that the Minister is not here at the moment, but I hope he will be able to read it in the Minutes – and they often have a conscious discussion with the employer on this issue. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I don't believe that!]] We have hundreds and thousands of provisions in this area, which, each for themselves and individually, are easy to implement and easy to maintain, only the quantity makes the poison. That's the problem. It is no longer possible for the individual average employer to know all the provisions, let alone keep them together at the same time. The sum of the regulations and reviews is what makes people so difficult today. In fact, there is a large field of liberalisation and simplification ahead of us, which could be dealt with, I am afraid only, in this context liability insurance alone will not be sufficient. If you look at the 1994 labour inspection report – I noticed it, because I looked through it – you see that the labour inspector alone has 69 laws and regulations to review; 69 laws and regulations with thousands and thousands of regulations. In my opinion, therefore, the State must be careful that it does not give up its authority by leaving so many regulations which do not allow the individual to behave in accordance with the law. Let me give you a little example: The 5-day week also applies to apprentices in the hospitality industry. The law on the employment of children and young people requires that the two days' leave be taken successively. Furthermore, the apprentice must be free every second Sunday. So good, so beautiful. What to do But now, if the company has a rest day on Wednesday? Then only four working days remain. Thus, the 40-hour working time would have to be distributed over four days. This is not possible, however, because the apprentice can only be employed eight or nine hours. – To solve this problem comes the square of the circle. And there are several such examples. I mean, we have to give every company the chance to behave decently on average. It must not be a question of punishing as many workers as possible, but it is a question of eliminating risks to our employees and preventing accidents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one wants to exclude controls, even if they have to be unannounced, but it is about moving the focus a little bit. What does it make sense to argue strongly about whether a quarter of an hour break is still in the process of working or is still a break or not? Such checks and checks will probably not prevent any danger. Labour inspectors tell me that they are actually producing directories – which they then pass on to the Ministry of Social Affairs – which lists provisions that run parallel, which are no longer up-to-date today and which could be deleted without replacement. Perhaps we should take this into account, too, because I am convinced that: There would be a little less in effectiveness often really more. What we want is to provide service providers with a safe and as little health risk as possible. As a result of the advisory work it provides for the new Labour Inspectorate Act, I believe that more is achieved than through controls and penalties. Only this way is appropriate to strengthen confidence between employers and authorities in order to help achieve a lasting breakthrough in the interests of worker protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9916	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9937	Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have often heard of joy and pride in social policy. Mr Donabauer was even proud of the fact that 699 billion schilling have been spent in the social field. I must say: Firstly, the figures do not vote, and secondly, I think we should consider whether it is enough to be proud of how much we have spent. I think it is more important to know what it has been spent on, that is, not quantity, but quality should really be crucial. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of the fact that you mentioned how much has been spent, In fact, they also recognize and admit that abuse has been committed throughout the social field for years and that unexpected privileges have been granted. I would like to draw attention to the Court of Auditors' report, which points out that, in the case of the local health telephone, the senior officials are really paying huge salaries. For example, the average monthly salary at the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse 307 000 S is 307 000 S, at the Burgenlanden Landeskrankenkasse it is "only" 228 000 S per month, at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse it is 320 000 S. [[Abg. Koppler: How many people are these? It's not for a single person!]] A person does this in the month. Read this! [[Abg. Nürnberger: That's not true!]] But of course! Look at this. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Tell me who this is!]] I will then make the Court of Auditors' report available to you. [[Abg. Nürnberger: That's not true!]] Don't fight it, it's true! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Say who!]] Such salaries do not even have anyone in a private company, and if, then, he has the total responsibility for turnover, for the sale, for the company to continue to exist, while at the social insurance institutions, in a practical protected area, such enormous salaries are paid. [[Abg. Koppler: Tell me how many people that are! Tell me!]] You can look at it afterwards. It's actually baffling that you don't know that, you've got it, too. Minister! It's cut short! There you should exercise your supervisory right and tell the social security institutions that such salaries are simply not portable. In other areas you are very easy with the shorts. Today, Mr Donabauer has also mentioned that it is absolutely all right for the disabled who are in hospital care to have reduced the allowance from 20 per cent to 10 per cent and that only 500 s remain for a disabled person. I mention it again: I think this is really the biggest scandal that the great coalition has done since the elections! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Some of these disabled people are young people. They definitely need more money than just the 500 S. The Minister of Social Affairs always says that they must not say that they need the money to go to the coffee shop or to buy their clothes, but indeed it is. There are very many disabled people who have nothing other than this 500 S. That means they have to fight their entire leisure activity, of which they have to buy their clothes! And then Mr Donabauer is talking about the fact that for someone who is housed in an institution, he is taken care of in any way, so that he does not need anything else. . I do not wish you, Mr Donabauer, that you should come out once a month with 500 s! Mrs. Dr. Moser of the Austrian People's Party has said that he will be helped if he is really in need. In view of what I have just said, I really can only talk about a joke that you have told out here. Are 500 S that stay for a disabled person a month justified? – I really have to say: You should be ashamed of disabled people for your attitude! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You really don't need to be proud of your social policy – neither red nor black. And if you are already proud, then you also have to answer the abuses, then you also have to stand for all that has gone wrong in the social field, but you always want to distance yourself from it. In reality, scatter the people in the eyes of continuous sand. Their Bundesobmann, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrnitzky, is the pioneer in this regard, because before the elections he turned his eyes to the people in a truly outstanding way, saying that after the election the socialists would be and the coalition, which will probably form, would create thousands of jobs. – Nothing has been created! When you see the newspapers, the headline is usually that unemployment is catastrophicly high, although it has now been reduced a little in the summer. But in relation to the previous year, it is still significantly higher. Mrs Piffl, the Wifo's labour market expert, has found that we have to expect that in Austria in 1999 there will be 64 000 more unemployed, which corresponds to an unemployment rate of 8.3 percent. We also have timeless experience that companies have to cancel people, because they have to restructure because they can no longer bear the additional wage costs. In other words, there is no question of creating jobs at all, quite the contrary: Thousands of jobs have been lost since the election! Once again, Federal Chancellor Vranckky made a promise that he did not comply with. He has already known from the outset that this promise will only be an empty promise. He simply wanted to lure the voters, and unfortunately God did so. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I ask you: In view of this situation of employment, how do you want to say that experts say that there will be 64 000 more unemployed in 1999 to finance the pension system? – You always say that the pension system is secured, but you do not tell us how it should be, because those in employment do the main part of the cost of pensions. The Social Report also shows that 58.6 billion Schilling were made in 1994 as a federal contribution to pensions. The burden ratio has increased again, i.e. to 1,000 contributors are 593 pensioners. A year ago, it was about 20 less. The ratio will continue to deteriorate. And in view of all of this you lack any concept! At an event, your section manager, who is responsible for pensions, said: If it has gone so far, it will also be in the future! But this is a basis with which we Freemans will certainly not be satisfied. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to ensure that the people who take part in the work process today or who are now in the work process are assured that they also receive their pensions. That is why I really ask you to present us with your concept, not only for your further term of office, for the few years, but beyond the turn of the millennium. For you owe this to the voters, that is to say to the Austrians, they owe it to the working people, Mr Minister! You know, I am disturbed that there is nothing but pride and joy and a short-sighted policy. Nothing is done at all by the consecration alone, but one has to see the facts. It must be acknowledged that our situation today is a very difficult one. It is not enough to always say that it will go somehow, but it is necessary to have visions as Minister Dallinger had at the time. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The Dallinger didn't deserve that!]] But, unfortunately, you don't have impulses, nor do I hear anything about visions and not about serious programs. That is why we cannot give our support to this social policy either.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10087	The next speaker is Mr Koppler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10108	Federal Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mrs Fablé referred to the Court of Auditors' report that a senior employee, for example, deserves 350 000 S per month at the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 312,000!]] Or 312 000 S. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! I do not think you can read the Court of Auditors' report, because if you read this Court of Auditors report carefully, you will see that it does not contain 312 000 S per month, but it says "annual". In addition, it is not a senior employee, it is the obmen of the Upper Austrian District Hospital, who earn it annually and not monthly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would ask you, Mrs Pablé, to quote you honestly and correctly here, and I would ask you to: Do not confuse this Court of Auditors with Grimm's fairy tales. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, in his speech on the Social Report, called the labour inspections and brought an example of aburgenian baker, and he tried again to play large businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises against each other. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you deserve so little?]] I believe that this is not a good way of doing this, because I think it is very important that we have small businesses, small businesses and large enterprises in Austria, and that we are at these small, medium and medium-sized enterprises because we need them. And it must not be forgotten that many small and medium-sized enterprises are doing a lot of business abroad and are also doing very well domestically. I think we should not try to play these businesses against each other, but we should be a Member of this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has already happened more often today that we had to put forward statements by Members of the Liberals in their speeches. We would need all the speaking time to correct all that has been made here in false claims. For example, Mr Haider has here addressed the mandate of Lyocell in Heiligenkreuz. [[Abg. Dr. Haider's going to the hall.]] I'm glad you're here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: All of Austria is happy!]] He claimed that the VOEST-ALPINE employed 60 Portuguese workers in connection with this contract. This statement, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore wrong because the VOEST-ALPINE has only the project management and no construction work left and only the Mondays deliver. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 60 Portuguese are busy there!]] And now the orders for the construction work that the VOEST-ALPINE has nothing to do with have been awarded. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You should criticize it!]] In addition: If you are talking about VOEST-ALPINE, take the ÖIAG law to your hand and study the changes in our field. Then you see which businesses are involved, and then you'd better know. Your speech has proved that you don't know yourself at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Clean up! Clean it up! Subcontractors employ 60 Portuguese on behalf of VOEST!]] As I said, The VOEST ALPINE does not employ 60 Portuguese workers! VOEST technology has overrun project management, and the construction works are carried out by small and medium-sized enterprises that you have tried to play out against the large companies, Mr. Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have actually reported to comment on the 1994 labour inspection report and on the 1994 activity report, and I would like to underline the importance of labour inspectors in terms of humanitarian and accident-proof jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Their tasks in the field of technical and occupational health protection, as well as in the field of protection of use, such as mother protection or occupational health, have been comprehensively presented in the report. I think this is very clearly reflected in this report. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In general terms, allow me to say that: The small higher number of labour inspectors – almost 360 – has had a positive impact on many times, as I mean. On the one hand, new requirements required by EU accession have been met and on the other hand, the higher number of inspectors has obviously contributed to the discipline of many entrepreneurs. Compared to 1993, the number of infringements of workers' protection rules fell to half in 1994, and the penalties increased by around a quarter. These figures, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it is strongly confirmed that the increase in labour inspection staff required by works councils, trade unions and workers' chambers was correct and will continue to be necessary. I do not wish, ladies and gentlemen, to address in detail the diverse statistical data. Those who are interested can read all of this in the report. There is no doubt that workers' protection in the establishments should be further improved. There are still too many accidents at work and workers are suffering from occupational diseases. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We provide work inspections with spaspelles and restrictions in their daily work. We promote and support their autonomy, especially when it comes to unregistered access to operation at any time. This is in the interests of consistent control, as I think, to be left untouched. As has been said, much too many accidents at work and workers are still suffering from occupational diseases. In addition to social suffering, these cause enormous operating and economic costs. With our support of the labour inspectorates, we promote the health of workers and humanity in Austrian companies. The increased labour pressure poses unpleasant dangers – humanity, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, is often on the road. Let us remember that more humane working conditions have a beneficial effect on health care and can thus be made a significant contribution to the discharge of health insurance. These positive effects also contribute to the preservation of the well-known prosperity in Austria and to the safeguarding of the social network. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the workers of the labour inspectorate for their work and encourage them to continue as before, and I would like to take note of this report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10244	Mrs Madl! I have to interrupt at 4:00. Do you want to talk for another 3 minutes? [[Abg. Madl: Yes!]] - Please, then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10274	Mr President. Federal Minister! Today, a Member of this House, Mrs Reitsamer, has coined a sentence that was particularly appealing to the work of this government. After speaking to our clubman Dr. Haider, she said: Dr. Haider! We are not discussing future prospects, we are discussing the 1994 report. – So that was a "hammer" for me today, that has scared me directly, and I thought that is the problem we have here in this house, namely that we have a government that has no more visions, which from the experiences of recent years, as late as it has made it, have no consequences that do not move anything that does not plan for the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Reitsamer also gives this out loud and clearly on record. That's a very nice thing for me. This 1994 Social Report is not even snow of yesterday, but snow of the day before. Since then, there has been significant deterioration in the social situation or the labour market situation. I quote here from a press release from your ministry, Mr. Minister, from May: In addition, a decrease in the number of employees and an increase in unemployment compared with the previous year, compared with 1995. – And we want to discuss 1994 today, and then someone comes here and says: One cannot discuss future prospects, that makes no sense, we are now discussing 1994! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is thus demonstrated with what you yourself have published the further decline in employment compared with 1995. Or: Since the end of April, 11.8 percent more unemployed than 1995 have been presupposed by the regional offices of the labour market service. Or: The number of reported open positions is 22.3 percent lower than 1995. Yes, Mr Minister, there must be any consequences. There are some future prospects to be considered. There is no way to go and say – as you, Minister, have done – that: Our social system is the best in Europe, we are the sign, and this is a reasonable development. Minister! That's where my hair stands in the mountains. If you call the development of this social system reasonable between 1994 and 1996, I am no longer aware of it! No, no, no, [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we are speaking about facts and facts that are truly verifiable here, then you, Mr Minister, are talking about an uncertainty of the population. There is no way of deceiving certain facts. For example, there are problems in the labour market, problems with apprentices, problems with social security, problems with women, problems with families – and you are talking about a reasonable development! I would like to know from you, Minister, what you're talking about is reason. I really want to ask you that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10340	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's 4:00. I'm allowed to interrupt you now, as agreed. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alois Pumberger and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs concerning "sickness" cash registers (700/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10370	I call on the urgent question 700/J by Dr Pumberger and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Mrs Madl is again given the floor after this urgent question and the debates and votes to be held following the urgent question on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The urgent request must not be read because it is already distributed. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11049	In order to justify the urgent question, Mr Pumberger is given the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11070	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr President. Today in the "Kurier" I read a very small article under the heading: "Unscrupulous about cash funds." It states that the Red and Black Members, the representatives of the main social security association, once again agreed not to take out any vaunting. They went out without results. The only thing they agreed to, although the burdens that Austrians are now expected to face in the new load package III was to keep silent about details. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We want to break this silence, the more urgent is the question to the Minister for Social Affairs, because the Austrians have a right to learn what is ahead of them in the face of new burdens. We liberals have therefore asked you today this urgent request with 31 detailed questions, and we are waiting to get them answered. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The health insurance deficit is no longer new. Since there were many fat years in which they could form deposits, the officials still lived and live like the Mades in the lush bacon today. There they were able to steal, and they are still seizing today. But you're not willing to save with the officials, at the cash desk itself. The only recipe you have is to increase contributions, increase recipe fees and reduce benefits. – We certainly do not participate in this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With minus 700 million Schilling, Vienna's regional health insurance fund alone is in the Kreide in 1996. Member of the Swimmer as the chairman of the Vienna District Hospital – he sits by chance next to the honourable Member Höchtl, who is also known to us from the latest media reports – is not in vain referred to by his friends in the ÖVP as the Zacharias of the ÖVP, for he is primarily responsible for the fact that no reforms have been carried out in the Wiener Landeskrankenkas. He has carried everything along, and he will have to speak and answer today. I hope that it will be included in the list of speakers. The health insurance fund in Upper Austria, just the cashier, which I had already promised a year ago the highest level of staff of all Austrian local health care phones – except Vienna, for they even beat the Upper Austrian – has then intrigued me in an insatiable way. She said that, as a contract doctor to the Upper Austrian Regional Health Fund, I should be better placed on the muzzle. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] - Unbelievable. – She said that I would live very well from the local health insurance fund and should therefore keep my mouth shut. I should be replaced as the chairman of the Health Committee because I criticized the staff status of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital. I have done nothing but quote the Court of Auditors which has made this criticism the same way. Exactly those cash registers that have the highest level of staff per year have the highest increase in staff, exactly those that write the highest red numbers. There's a parallel that can't be overlooked. Before putting new burdens on citizens, it would therefore be necessary to start reforming the health insurance system itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Styrian Landeskrankenkasse, although it has to expect a deficit of 430 million schilling this year and the old building would still be sufficient, builds a new marble palace for its functionaries, a marble palace of 300 million shilling with additional jobs and office buildings, although it wants to reduce jobs; at least it speaks of it. At the same time, the benefits for patients are reduced. This is one thing that simply doesn't fit together anymore, and the Austrians will not really like this in a long time. Federal Minister! There you are called for as an idea finder, but your ideas, which I have so far perceived, consisted of nothing more than possibly increasing self retention, increasing recipe fees – it was already speaking of raising to up to 60 s per drug pack – to increase health insurance contributions for pensioners. That's the only thing you think of. In the 1995 election movement, the Chancellor has still said that the pensioners – in a letter he has understood – should not choose black or free, because they take away a lot of things. The fact is that it is exactly the other way round. Especially the pensioners, the chronically ill, the long-term ills, they are the ones that are most seriously damaged by your health policy. We must support them, and this support they find in us liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They also want to increase health insurance contributions to workers, but especially to employees, I have heard, and I believe that this will be decided in the next few weeks. You reduce the benefits by reducing the sickness benefit, which has been paid for up to one and a half years, to one year now. The speech was already about the statutory 26 weeks of health care per year. Again, it is not those who need a short-term illness, but those who have suffered serious road accidents, serious accidents at work, and often need a long-term illness. It is precisely those who are being taken by this measure, and you as the Social Minister are also called upon here not to let this happen and to take decisive action against the plan of the Vienna regional health insurance fund to pay the sickness allowance only for more than 26 weeks, and to prevent it from happening. It's in the planned 53. ASVG-Novelle still planned a lot of cuts. The recipes of election doctors are no longer paid. Patients must run with the prescription as a doctor who does not approve, and then they must pay the high prices in the pharmacies themselves. The patients who need permanent medications, often vital drugs, the socially weak, the sick are once again the drug payers – and you with your social democratic social policy are really one that has failed so far. In the 15 months – I don't know – it's already 18 months, I think it's 15 months – in which you're in office, you've been in your mentality as a railway trader. They're doing nothing but mutilating. They always say: It's not that bad, it doesn't pay anyone on it; social health care is secure, and no one needs to be afraid that it will be taxed in addition. The Austrians know very well that they have to fear it. I learn every day in my practice that medications are no longer authorised by the hospital, by specialists. The practical doctor, who quotes himself as a doctor, goes here and simply doesn't approve. The Farmers' Fund, Mr. Donabauer, no longer approves of heart preparations, such as nitropflasters for heart disease patients ordered by specialists. As the chairman of the Farmer's Hospital, they are primarily responsible throughout Austria. You drive around with the thick farm phone-funded van with chauffeur, and your forced insured people leave you in the rain. [[Abg. Donabauer: Yes!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Without blue light, Mr. Pumberger!]] [[Call to the liberals: With chauffeur!]] I do not understand at all that cash desks such as Dr. Schwimmer or Mr Donabauer are Members of the National Council at the same time, i.e. those two functions. I believe that there is a clear conflict of interest here, because I do not think that it is compatible that you adopt laws here and, on the other hand, that you represent the interests of the cashier and not the interests of the patients, thus contributing to the maintenance of this mismanagement of the health insurance scheme. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Here you should act as a citizen's representative, and there you act as a representative of the Bones and of the Officials who drive around with thick, fat vans and whom I think patients are already quite no matter. There are plenty of savings. The Social Partnership Advisory Board on Economic and Social Affairs alone speaks of 13 billion Schilling savings potential without new additional burden on the patients, without any burden on the Austrians. If you only once started to reform the social security system properly and to search through it, then there would be a lot to do. The Minister has also mentioned the merger of social security schemes. I am pleased that you have taken up a free will. In the meantime, however, you have obviously rejected it again. But think about it again. In one of my questions I have also mentioned this. Maybe we'll get an answer today. Make sure that administrative costs are reduced. 4 billion schilling alone is the administrative cost – 4,000 million schilling! – and this number is still freshened. The administrative costs do not include the costs of the medical billing for the 40 000 contractual doctors, and that is another 2 or 3 to 4 billion schilling. The reimbursement costs for the doctors are counted among the fees, but not among the administrative costs of the health insurance companies. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's it!]] Yes, that's really true, you can make a correct after that. I think you will think very well, Mr Donabauer. I'm getting to the root of the thing. They're all waiting for it. Where can we save? Where are great maladministrations? – We liberals have already shown some aspects in the past few weeks. For example, with the cures. Medicines are medicines, as you could make sure that the main association – and you are the top supervisory authority of the main body of social security companies – which negotiates the prices with the pharmaceutical companies are negotiated in accordance with European prices, so that in Austria we are not at the price level of medicines still above the European average. Just make sure that we get decent prices about the drug multitis, about the chemical companies, because we could already save a few hundred million, perhaps even one billion schilling! There is also a great maladministration – this is a problem for itself – with the reliefs. I have not brought you for nothing a few reliefs and also a Zetterl – you also call it Taferl, but for a Taferl it is a little too little strong – which you can read quietly. There is a very complicated system for the relief of the patients. This is where tariffs are negotiated, tariffs between the main association of social security institutions and the federal institu tion of the bandagists. In this federal induction of the bandagists, the main negotiators are again those who are representatives of the large, influential bandagist companies that are concerned with securing their market, the general importers of certain products that dominate the market for various products in Austria. These are companies that import articles containerically from Thailand or Korea to Austria and then deliver them to the patients without a test mark as such against regulation. [[Abg. Seidinger: Are there any Hong Kong videos?]] We are negotiating prices, Mr Colleague, which are aimed at ensuring that patients receive quality products with test marks, i.e. products of high quality. This is based on the high price, but this high price will clearly fail by often not being delivered, often not offered to the patient what is actually due to them. You'd be asked again, Minister of State! You would be required to exercise your supervisory duty, and to take care of order at the main association in order to eliminate these maladministrations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can give you a few examples of this, for example, those cervical glands that are already known to you. [[the speaker holds four necks in height]] Collars are relatively simple products. They are prescribed if you attract a cervical spinal splint, for example in case of rising accidents. This occurs in Austria every year Aber thousands of times, and the relatively low price for this is multiplying over the course of the year to the multiple, to the thousand times. These necks are offered on the market, and most bandagist companies, especially the large corporations that dominate the market in Austria, buy these products by saying and writing 60 S! Purchasing price thus 60 S, negotiated with the main association of social security funds – you, Mr. Federal Minister, as the top supervisory body are responsible for it – is however a price of 822 S. This can be clearly read here. [[The speaker raises a note on which these numbers are quoted.]] This is a supplement of exactly 1 270 percent! Many producers of the most diverse products in Austria would be pleased if they could not work in the private sector, but in the semi-governmental or in the state sector, because it is possible to achieve such profits. The main association of social security funds makes it possible. He makes it possible to sell neck collars by 60 S by 822 S – without any test of how expensive the purchase is. There are some who buy a little more expensive, but a maximum of 90 p. If the patient buys such a throat in the pharmacy itself, he pays 250 p. If he is ordered by the doctor and goes to the Bandagist, he alone pays a self-retaining of 259 S, and more than 600 S pays the social security. I myself have tested which of these necks – I have deliberately taken several – is the best quality. I did this together with an experienced orthopaedic bandagist. We took them down, tested on their strength, and we agreed on one that seemed to us both the best quality. And that's exactly the one that costs 60 s in the purchase. Ladies and gentlemen! If, on the occasion of the press conference held by Bundesobmann Jörg Haider, the Director-General of the General Association, about which you have the Chief Supervisory Officer, Mr. Federal Minister, claims that these are inferior products, of which he speaks, no-one buys them, then I have to say that I would recommend to every small bandagist, so that he provides his patients well: Buy this one by 60 S! You don't only have a high profit, so you have also provided the patients with the best care, and then you best sell them privately, sell them by 250 S, then don't tax the health insurance. They themselves have the good revenue, and the patient has to pay by 9 s less than if he has to pay the self retention of 259 S for an orthopaedic product! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who deals with this insanity?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Examples of this kind are in a number. I refer, for example, to the forearm support. These are also products that are used a thousand times in Austria. They cost in the Federal Republic at the specialist dealer 12.70 DM – that is roughly 85 S – and we cost them 115 S. That's not the difference yet. But the main association has set a price, according to which the bandagists may demand 497 s for it. In Germany it costs – as I said – 85 S. So there is a very big difference again. I do not know who will influence you, who will affect your price negotiators, your price negotiators. But I know very well that there are very close links with people who negotiate with the main association, people who sit in the federal inn of the bandagists, for example representatives of the company Normalia. There is a certain Professor Kristen, who is known again because he is the husband of the German Chancellor Vranckky, who is again involved in the company Normalia. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... his sister married!]] His sister, that is, a very close relationship. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Chancellor is involved in the company!]] The Chancellor is directly involved. There is no need to be surprised, for example, if Mrs. Chancellor is the main supplier of shoe deposits, for example, for the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse in times such as those where patients are no longer allowed to receive medicines in which, if they are granted, some of the benefits are granted in poor quality, in which doctors are put under such pressure that they are often unable to carry out the necessary treatments, so that this company normalia or its representatives, Professor Kristen, will receive a tariff charge, a tariff charge for shoe deposits, the main product of the company Normalia of Mrs. Vranitzky, by 100 per cent charge. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 100 percent?- Oh, my God!]] 100 per cent extra charge! This is not really the case anywhere else! But Mrs. Vrannitzky can do it. I do not think it is excessive if I have to assume to her that there is a close relationship with the socialist-dominated main association and therefore it is much easier to talk than if one does not have such a good wire there. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Now the hums gets restless!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Another example is wheelchairs. For wheelchairs, the main association has made up a tariff between 11 000 S and 13 000 S. This is still acceptable for a quality product that costs 6 000 S, 7 000 S. Now the big bandagists, i.e. those who have conducted the negotiations and made out the prices, are entering Austria in container-contained wheelchairs – 400 wheelchairs in a container – and they therefore flooded the Austrian market. All without a test mark! These wheelchairs are purchased in Thailand by 2 500 S, and without a test mark the cash desk will be charged 11 000 S. The supplement accounts for several 100 percent. I ask you, Minister of State: Are you not aware of these things at all? - They also manage hospitals. In some cases the health insurance companies also operate hospitals, there are also reliefs purchased. Don't you know how high prices actually are? Don't you know how large the margins are? Failure You do not seem to be fully aware of the duty of supervision you have to exercise? I brought the ASVG and quote § 448 – if you do not know, Minister of State: "The insurance companies and the main association, together with their institutions and institutions, are subject to the supervision of the federal government. Supervision shall be exercised by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs as the top supervisory authority." - She has to do it. It is not, it can be exercised, it may be exercised, no, it must be exercised, Mr Federal Minister! Have you exercised your supervisory duty in the past 15 months? Have you ever intervened? Did you find a single case? Did you have a single test? – I know nothing, but I hope you can answer many of my questions positively in our sense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are not powerless as the top supervisory authority. This is stated in § 449 ASVG. I'll read this to you as well: "The supervisory authorities may, in the exercise of the supervisory right, repeal decisions of the administrative bodies." - You can do that too. So you're not so powerless at all. You do not need to restrict yourself to beautifying, Mr Federal Minister, by saying: It's not that bad, the checkouts will recover. We will increase the contribution a little and cut the performance a little. - You don't need to be beautiful. If you take care of social insurance, dry this swamp, then the patients do not need to be burdened! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can continue in the product range. There are toilet chairs, for example. This introduces a company practically for all of Austria from the Czech Republic, also from a low-cost country, even without a test mark, around 400 S. The small bandagists cannot help themselves – from where should they get the products that are not produced in Austria? – and that is why these large bandagist companies also buy for the little ones. The little ones are charged a higher price, because the big ones also have to live on something. The little ones then have only a very small profit margin, because they deliver the products at the same price as the big ones. The large ones not only reorganize themselves to the patients in direct sales, but also clean up themselves by cutting the market together the small bandagists – that is, the majority in Austria – and cutting the profit margin by dominant the market with low-cost products that are often without a test mark. – We condemn this entirely vehemently! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same is true of the previously quoted wheelchairs. This wheelchair cannot import a small bandagist from Thailand. He must take at least one container with 400 pieces at a time. So he's got to buy from the big guy. The big one gives the little one the price. The little one has only a small profit margin. This is justified. I'm not jealous of that, but the big ones want to dominate the market. That they dictate the prices and are connected to the main association – the main association plays everywhere – is to be condemned. We are the ones who show this, and that should also be the meaning of today's urgent request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are, however, not only major maladies in the healing aid, but also in the aid. Aids include, for example, orthopaedic shoes. If orthopaedic shoes, ladies and gentlemen, are to have a good quality, then the shoemaker must make a leist and make special products, which he can then charge. Such an orthopaedic shoe is associated with a lot of work and can already cost 7 000 S, 8,000 S, 9 000 S. Recently, a patient came to me, who said: Doctor, I work in an old age home. All those who work there, because they are very much on their feet and it is mostly also older staff, lower feet or spruce feet. They wear orthopaedic shoes. – She has now also been ordered. That's what I'm saying: There is nothing special about this, it is for all of them, that is not a question at all. If you have lower or spray feet, If you have any complaints, this is an obligation of the health insurance institution that cannot screw up before it. It is a good, high quality shoe with built-in sole against the lower or spray foot. After a long time, she comes back and says: Doctor, I've got my shoes now. But if I knew what they cost, I wouldn't have claimed them at all. I am ashamed of the fact that I have caused so many costs to social security for these shoes. That's what I'm saying: If you show me the shoes, I can tell you if they are worth something, and then show me the invoice, then I can tell you if this fits in. – She says she didn’t know how high the price is, but she got a letter from the health insurance company, and it says: Dear Mrs Marianne E.! We inform you that the application for an aid in the form of orthopaedic shoes has been approved, and we have the costs in the amount of – please listen carefully! – 10 595 S net. That then makes up gross 12 714 S. We hope that this will enable us to make a small contribution to the preservation of your labour force. That's what I'm saying: But that's good, you got a special shoe. – Then she also brought me the shoe, and kindly she made it available to me, and I brought it with me today – one well noticed! [[The speaker shows an orthopaedic shoe.]] This is the shoe with velcro closure and with built-in footbed for which the patient was charged Ms. Marianne E. 12 714 S. These costs have been taken over by the social security scheme without fail. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Standless...!]] But that's not just one person. Ten people work in this social workplace who receive shoes twice a year at a price of 12 714 s. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's what I'm asking myself, Minister of State: There are no tests? Are these prices negotiated? Is there any other possibility of error? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: A waste of tax money!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's why you want to increase the contributions!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Incredible!]] – Make sure that these abuses are stopped! Then you can save hundreds of thousands of schilling at a single workplace! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you are negotiating the prices with a working group that has now formed! – Is the working community of Orthopedics already known to you? The main association is now completely cleaned. He no longer negotiates with the inn, but only with a few members of the inn who have joined the working group orthopedics, namely Dr. Ivanic, who is the son-in-law of a grandbandagist named Radl, and with another big bandagist named Lambert. These are now making the price catalog. If the small bandagists want to find themselves with their products in this catalogue, they have to pay 3,000 s to this working group alone for sending the forms necessary for the submission of their products. But they don't have anything at all. And then they still have to pay another 5 000 s per product, which is immortalized in this catalogue. The small bandagists are moaning under this burden. In cooperation with the main association of social security institutions, the working group Orthopedics makes this dissatisfaction and burdenes the small bandagists. Mr Sozialminister! You don't know anything about it? Have you ever heard of it? - You're sitting here and you're amazed. Your astonishment is correct. You're astounded. Obviously, you've never heard of it before. Today you know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Today, you have hopefully already informed yourself about the scandals that exist in this main association and in all related companies. I hope that today's urgent request will help to expose these scandals once and for all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's almost grotesque: This company ARGE Orthopedics divides these medications – in collaboration with the main association – into yes products and no products. Yes products means: The costs will be taken over by the cash desk. The patient, if he is not free of charge, pays his 259 p. The No-Products are those products that the patient has to pay for himself, which require an additional cost of 110 percent, while the yes-products require a surcharge of 65 percent. Now, when the patient has received a no-product, he goes once to the bandagist, and pays the full amount that has been increased for this because a double charge has been approved as for the yes-products. This amount is then refunded to him to a maximum of 40 percent of the social security. So he has more ways and higher costs. How do these yes and no products come about? – I've already seen this catalogue, which is not yet officially available. It is interesting to note again that those companies that sit in this working group orthopaedics can make a particularly large number of yes products on their account. The first five, six products of an equivalent list are: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. – Then one looks at the company and sees that the majority of the companies are companies that sit directly in the ARGE or have a very close relationship with the ARGE, because these companies are mostly connected again. The little bandagist remains on the track. He's doing good work, but he pays for it, because he's getting a no product. Patients cannot afford to do so, so they stay on their product, and the big business is again doing those who actively participate in this work community. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we will be submitting today a request for a special audit of the Court of Auditors. If more than 20 Members – and we are – sign this, then the Court of Auditors is in the process of examining the conduct of legal health insurance institutions, including the main association of social security institutions, in particular as regards remedies and remedies, as well as the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the organisational structure and construction activities. Federal Minister! I am already very excited about this Court of Auditors report. We'll learn a lot. The Court of Auditors has so far criticised a great deal, such as the lack of staff status in the field of health telephones. If we have the result of this special audit by the Court of Auditors, we will see what has not yet been revealed. Much will not yet be revealed, because what we are reporting today – a lot of free speakers who will still speak in my opinion will be able to tell you a lot of details – is only the tip of the iceberg. It's still a lot in secret. I therefore believe that this request for a special audit by the Court of Auditors is very important. And I'm looking forward to the result. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But as long as the representatives of Red and Black, who are in charge of social security, sit here in Parliament, as long as political officials in the social security sector find shelters of high-density and live there in the lush bacon as well as in the fat, no one will be able to take the lead in this system of legal social security with the main association. They won't be so stupid and saw their own branch. It will come as in the case of the national lights: You're waiting. There, too, the mis-economy has been driven to the end until the deficit was so large that simply the financial viability was no longer given. And then the will for reform is a must, even if it is not yet recognizable. Then, hopefully, there will also be a desire to reform social health insurance. Then, hopefully, there will also be a will there, as is already the case in the Federal Republic of Germany, that private social security can be completed and that one is not bound by statutory compulsory insurance. Because if the Austrians still have to enjoy as much more in the future than for example reductions in performance in the case of increases in contributions, they will no longer play with them. They will then claim the offer which will then necessarily come, namely private insurance. And I can assure you that they will receive much better supplies for cheaper tariffs, and they will be very satisfied with the private social security schemes, which I hope will be available soon, as in the Federal Republic of Germany now. Until then, much water will flow down the Danube. But I hope that today's urgent question, Mr Federal Minister, has gone a little further, that the abuses of the main association of social security institutions, including the individual social security and health insurance institutions, will once again be shown that you, as the supreme supervisory authority, are using your supervisory law and that you, as we have repeatedly demanded of the liberals, not only have the right of supervision, but also the right to exercise the right to intervene, Mr Bundesminister, who will enable you to actively eliminate and eliminate abuses. That would be a concern of the liberals. This is to be enforced in the near future, then in the future the abuses, the scandals of social health insurance may be held a little behind, and we – the Austrians – may then also be given the opportunity to insure ourselves privately social and health insurance due to these abuses of social health insurance, legal health insurance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11462	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11483	Mr President. Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Before I come to the answer to the individual questions, I would like to say at the last sentence that, in principle, the Austrian health care system, the health care system and the financing of social health insurance do not require an international comparison and no comparison with private insurance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our system has so far managed to benefit all Austrians from the medical progress that is being made in the field of therapy, in the field of health care, because almost 100 percent are currently in the field of social health insurance, and they are largely satisfied with this system. I would point out here that this system has enabled our social health insurance system and will continue to allow all Austrians, regardless of their income, to participate in the advances in medicine, in the progress of health care, in the progress of diagnostic possibilities and in treatment opportunities. Any further reform in this field must therefore be the top objective of all, regardless of their income, being able to participate in the advances of medicine, that all can share the good possibilities of diagnosis and therapy. That must be the ultimate goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Exploit them, strain them!]] Of course, as in all other areas, we must always strive and strive to ensure that these possibilities of medical progress are also available at reasonable and reasonable costs. Therefore, it is also in the current discussion our first and top goal to make cost reductions in all areas in which they are possible: in the field of administration, in the field of medical care, in the field of remedies, in the field of drugs – also through most intensive price negotiations. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then start once!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 1,000 percent trading margin! This is a fraud on the people, a fraud on the citizens!]] We therefore also have to talk first and foremost about the cost reduction programme in the current debate on financialability, in which very intensive negotiations have taken place in recent weeks and months between me, the main association and all the contracting parties, which will also reduce costs and lead to an increase in costs no longer taking place in this way – in all areas. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What does it mean to lead? For decades, you've had the abuses!]] But: All these measures and cost reductions should only take place to the extent that no deterioration in quality in health care and in health care is taking place. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Minister of Announcement!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You think about increases in contributions instead of reducing the costs!]] That's our goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Nobody believes you anymore!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why don't you lower the cost?]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You talk and talk!]] They have so far seen that we also have a very good system in all other areas of social security in Austria, that, unlike in other European countries, we also maintain all our social systems, such as the exemplary social security scheme, in view of the need for fiscal consolidation, and that all the corrections needed to consolidate the budget are made so that they are socially justified, socially understandable and acceptable. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A good system for mafiosi!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is a self-service store!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And according to the same principles, we are also working on consolidation in the field of health insurance. I have already mentioned this urgent question today: If you want to know what measures are being taken to consolidate the budget, I would like to point out once again: The 53. Novelle is currently under review, and I have already stated publicly and several times that, after all the negotiations and discussions with the main association, with the social partners, with the doctor's board, with the hospitalists, with the pharmaceutical industry and so on, the measures will be presented by the end of June and that these measures will still come to the Council of Ministers and to Parliament this month. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a weak news!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You have to get through, Minister!]] – And this is true today. It is therefore not particularly useful for you to expect 14 days before this deadline set by me to announce here the details which still need to be negotiated and defined in the field of government. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Do you have any ideas?]] I just want to tell you one thing: In the context of the Structural Adjustment Act, I have heard the reverse criticism here. Again and again, you have been criticized that the measures are being implemented so quickly and without discussion with all the parties involved – which has not voted at all – and everything has gone far too fast. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not from us! That's an invention!]] We have also acted very quickly in the field of health insurance, but these negotiations, which are still under way, will be concluded next week, and the government will then put in place the corresponding presentation of the various measures in Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You need to get through, not negotiate! Disgusting!]] But again: The top goal is to ensure good health care, good health care, the progress of medicine to all, regardless of their income, even in the future, at reasonable costs. And we're going to meet the goal as before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the first place, savings will be made in the administrative field. There will be rationalizations, as it has already been, which will be intensified and continued. In the field of social security, there will soon be a major stopover – which is already effective – and there will also be restrictions on staff costs. And I would already like to thank the employees in this area, who certainly have a difficult task, for understanding these further rationalization possibilities, for understanding that, in the field of health insurance, savings measures with one-off payments will also take place in the field of public service. These measures will also reduce costs by more than 300 million schilling. I would like to point out once again: It is very popular to say that all this is to be achieved through savings in the administrative field of health insurance. These are personnel costs, administrative costs, even postage. And in addition, these costs include billing with the doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But as medical help and not as administrative costs!]] You are counted here as administrative costs, Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Wrongly declared! I got it there! Read your own invoices! That's medical costs!]] That's already changed! These administrative costs for the entire area of health care and health insurance – personnel costs and actual expenses – amount to around 4 billion schilling in total expenditure of 118 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You believe that! That's what they're telling you! But it is still in the billing process!]] I take this very seriously. Therefore: All rationalisation measures that are possible and necessary will be implemented. I have recommended these measures to the main association. The main association has already negotiated it with the staff representatives. From this point of view, I would like to thank once again the employees, who have always had a lot of new tasks, for their understanding of the future even stronger rationalisation measures and for the limitations in the field of staff expenditure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the same way, I have caused the main association with the doctor's chamber, with the pharmaceutical industry, with the pharmacists and with all the areas you have mentioned here – bandagists, medicinal products manufacturers and so on – to conduct intense negotiations in order to achieve cost-effective measures. Even in the field of the Chamber of Doctors, in the pharmaceutical industry and in the pharmaceutical sector, although I am not entitled to negotiate, I have held preliminary talks and have found understanding that there will be savings. In the area – again: without loss of quality for insured persons – the medications, in the field of medical services through appropriate tariff measures, will provide a cost reduction for the next year of around 2 billion schilling. In the field of hospitals, the negotiations started years ago with the countries, with the hospital holders, have now been concluded. It has been established that the cost of social security in the next few years is limited by the amount of income received as a result of the increase in income. That is to say, we have taken cost-effective measures in all these areas, and I therefore reject the fact that it is here that we should have thought of increasing revenue only once and for all. On the contrary! As in fiscal consolidation, our first goal was: How can we reduce costs in all areas, administration, medical services, hospital services, medicines, medical care and so on without loss of quality for the insured? I would like to say that again. However, one thing needs to be noted: Medical progress brings more opportunities. The possibilities of therapy, the possibilities of diagnosis rise. Therefore, if it is serious, no one can promise, in all the cost reductions, that we can get the benefits that medicine can offer in 2000 at the expense of how they have passed ten years before. Whoever wants to promise this, promises something that is unsustainable. Cost reduction, yes, but understand that the considerable increase in quality in medicine must also be prepared for all the cost reduction measures to accept the increased costs resulting from the improvement of quality. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A patch around 12,000 S! You have to explain that!]] In all the discussions outside, I have no effort to explain that these improvements also have their price, and the Austrians understand that health care cannot be offered at a zero rate. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 12,000 S! Do you also buy your badges by 12 000 S? Where do you buy your badges? That's incredible!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look at the patch! Just slip in and see what a nugget it is!]] Again: I myself, of course, am not able – and this is not planned – to check every single position with all my supervisory duties. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: For a sleep 12 000 S!]] But according to the communications of the main association, all this information is not at all correct. [[Call the liberals.]] And if You want to discuss health policy in such a way that you debate individual positions that cannot be checked, then I am sorry for those hours that we are spending here. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] If you want to establish a connection here with relatives or any acquaintances of the Federal Chancellor, I think this is just as unqualified as the form of discussion you want to hold, because that is not at all true. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You still get several examples today! Just be quiet!]] But I think we should take the time to discuss health care, because that is supposed to be your goal. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You get even better examples, Minister! Be quiet! You get even better examples! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.]] Let us discuss quality assurance, which is necessary in the field of health care. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A sleeper has its price: 12 000 S!]] The first thing to do is not to see health care in the future, but to consider what measures we need to strengthen in order to run health care and increase health awareness. – These are the objectives we should discuss here. Of course, I am at all times in favour of monitoring all these measures. I do not at all dispute that this is not necessary either. No question! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can sell it in Caorle as a swimmer!]] All these measures must be monitored, all contractual positions. Only that is not in the area of the Social Minister, within the framework of self-management, to constantly control every position. That can't be. And according to the communications of the main association, these claims – and they were also made publicly by the president of the main association – are in no way sustainable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now the old leader comes from self-government! You have the custody right! You've got to see it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And now I want to come to answer your individual questions. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Question 1: How high was the deficit of each institution in statutory health insurance in 1995? I have already given an in-depth opinion on the problems of financial development. I would like to make one more point: The development of behaviour is due to two components: firstly, to the increase in costs, particularly in the hospital sector; and secondly, to the fact that in recent years, the poorer economic development, which was also worse internationally, has not increased contribution revenue to the same extent as before. This resulted in the following result for the individual carriers in 1995: According to the preliminary results of the conduct in 1995, the end-of-life of all health insurance companies amounted to 2.78 billion schilling. In detail, the birth balances amounted to the following amounts: all local health telephones together 2 170 million schillings, with an area health insurance fund, the Vorarlberger Kassa, still able to complete with a surplus of 19 million schillings. All the operating telephones together completed last year with a surplus of 41 million schilling. The insurance institution of the Austrian mining company had a minus of 12 million, the insurance institution of the Austrian railways had a minus of 15 million, the insurance institution of public servants a minus of 319 million, the social insurance institution of the industrial industry a minus of 69 million, and the social insurance institution of the farmers a minus of 234 million. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Question 2 refers to the deficit in 1996. There are still some measures which have already been put in place and are in effect, and the measures that will be taken in this year. Therefore, the figures can only be expected from what was forecast, but not from what will happen because a number of cost-effective measures will still reduce this forecast deficit. In the case of the local health telephone, operational telephone and all those subject to the ASVG, a loss of 2.6 billion was forecast, and a total of 3.6 billion schilling for all health insurance. I would like to stress once again: Of course, one can only see this 3.6 billion schilling in relation to the total effort in the field of health insurance. The 3.6 billion schilling can be seen as part of the total expenditure of 118 billion schilling. It is also apparent that this amount can be covered by the cost reduction measures to be carried out and already carried out, based on measures which are socially compatible and which correspond to the increase in quality in medicine. On Question 3: "What additional financial burden will be borne by health insurance companies through the removal of the unfair tax exemption...?" – I believe that the text of the urgent question is in the hands of all the Members. I therefore do not need to repeat the questions, but simply to answer them. I have already agreed with the Federal Minister for Finance on an EU-compliant solution which ensures that the removal of unfair VAT exemption does not lead to any additional burden on social security. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What is the rule, Mr. Minister?]] On Question 4: On the expenditure side, above all, the above-average increase in expenditure on hospitals, medical assistance and reduced revenue in contributions are responsible for the development of the delivery. I have already commented on this in the introduction. On question 5: All in all, I have, together with the main association of social security institutions and through additional discussions with the Chamber of Physicians, the Pharmacopoeia and the pharmaceutical industry since 1995, already caused a number of measures to reduce deficits and reduce costs, thus ensuring the high standard of Austrian health care and the progress of medicine for all people in Austria in the future. The first is to mention and repeat the measures in the field of health insurance itself. The administrative cost reduction has already been mentioned by me. Joint computer programme developments for all insurance companies are intended to bring further cost savings, as well as equivalent savings in the field of personnel costs as well as in the Federal Government, i.e. a large number of stopovers, overtime cuts, rationalisations of working processes, increases in contributions to occupational pensions. New measures have therefore been taken which have a decisive effect. Furthermore, the installation of cash management for the entire social security area took place. Furthermore, the measures already mentioned in the field of medical costs and measures in the field of drugs are provided for. In the case of drugs, the reduction in the wholesale margin was already started in 1995. Current price reductions in medications are order targets and are also implemented by the main association. There has also been a principle discussion with the pharmaceutical industry about revenue-oriented cost development. In order to implement all this, we will build an additional project organisation. It has already been agreed with the pharmaceutical industry, with the pharmacists and with the doctors that under the title "reasonable handling of drugs" we will come to savings in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You only need to negotiate correct prices!]] If it is said by my previous speaker that certain medicines are not approved, I would like to make one clear: Social security schemes shall approve all medicines that are necessary and useful. Only if equivalent drugs are available for an area, then there is much agreement with the doctors that the cost-effectiveness of equivalent drugs – of course in the sense of an economy – must be prescribed. Dr. Pumberger! This is understood by the doctors. In this area too, we must accept for the insured economic objectives without losing quality. This is so practiced by most doctors, I would like to say here. The second: Of course, it is also necessary to look for additional possibilities for a cheaper pricing at generics. Also the pack sizes should be correct, they should not be too large and not too small. All of this is a whole series of measures, some of which have already been implemented and others still need to be implemented. As a result, we will be able to achieve further savings in this area. In the case of relief and aid, expenditure is to be stabilised at least at 1995 level. You see, there have also been the appropriate instructions in this area, and the appropriate measures will also be taken. Of the legal measures planned to reduce costs, the hospital financing reform should first be mentioned. The additional amount of KRAZAF to be paid in the amount of 1 250 million schilling will in future be eliminated by the new regulation. There will also be revenue-oriented expenditure development by the year 2000 due to the agreements with the countries on hospital financing. Additional but justified revenue will be provided by the obligation to contribute to service-like works contracts and free service contracts. The reimbursement of the costs for constituency doctors takes more account of the increased administrative burden. In the 53rd century. ASVG-Novelle, which is under review, is therefore intended to limit the refund by 80 percent of the contract rate in the future. On Question No 5, I would like to add that, according to our schedule, the negotiations on cost reductions and measures will be concluded next week. Only then will it be finally determined how much the amount is needed to maintain quality assurance. And then we will discuss the form in which this amount is to be brought in. The outcome shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers and transmitted by the Council of Ministers to Parliament. But again: First, the cost reductions. After the cost reductions have been completed, it must be established whether there is still a difference. And I say straight away, he'll be there. However, it will be in a reasonable form to be concluded in a socially acceptable form. We will have to discuss how we can continue to ensure quality in health care in the next week. According to the schedule, which has been published several times in public, the 53 will be published. ==References====External links== In June 1996 the Council of Ministers was introduced into the Council of Ministers and then to the Parliament. I therefore ask you to be patient for 14 days. The exact schedule was announced. This concerns a number of other questions that you have asked here. Question 6 has already been answered with question 5. On Question 7: I don't plan any additional taxes on taxpayers. However, I have started a long-term discussion on the issue of wage reductions, whether we can reduce additional labour costs and maintain the quality of social security by using existing taxes – not new ones! – identify relevant social security parts where there is a material link. In the longer term discussion, I am thinking of health insurance, for example, of the fact that, unfortunately, smoking is not a health promotion, but unfortunately an additional cost in health insurance. For the longer term, therefore, it should be borne in mind whether, for example, some of the existing tobacco tax on health care is needed to cover these increased costs. I assume that this is a variant of future discussions. I would like to stress, however, that this question is not to be resolved ad hocly, but rather is a longer-term question that we should ask ourselves, just as we have to think in other areas about whether we can avoid additional wage increases by finding alternative, understandable and related other measures. On Question 8: In reply to Question No 5, I have already outlined the measures envisaged and I would like to stress once again that all the measures under discussion must not affect quality assurance in health care. On Question 9: I have already said today that I do not want to reduce the amount of sickness benefit. On the contrary, in the already sent draft on 53. ASVG-Novelle is intended to increase the legal right to sick leave from currently 26 weeks to 52 weeks. This is already contained in the sent draft. Of course, it is also necessary for us to ensure the appropriate financial viability. But again: I am not thinking of shortening the health insurance. The opposite is the case. In the draft opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to And I am convinced that I will have the majority here in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already answered questions 10, 11 and 12 in the answers to Question 5. On Question 13: I have already initiated further rationalization measures and a large number of withdrawals with the main association of social security institutions. Furthermore, as already reported, equivalent savings measures in the social security sector are being put in place in analogy with the public service rules. The main association has already agreed with the union on measures in the field of civil service law which are expected to reduce the administrative burden of more than 300 million schilling annually. On Question 14: The rationalisation and business consulting firm Hausemann has already found in its analysis of cost-saving opportunities that not the merger of social security providers, but other measures, such as the increased use of synergies in the computer sector or improved cash management, will make better savings. ==References== ASVG-Novelle as well as the recently adopted Structural Adjustment Act have already established the legal basis for the measures of cooperation in these areas. In the case of health insurance companies, after all the internal and external audits – also by the Swiss rationalization company Hausemann – I do not consider a combination to be useful. Today's organisational structure, combined with coordination by the main association, offers the best insurance proximity and customer justice in this insurance area. I emphasize that this measure was also seen and confirmed by the company Hausemann, a Swiss rationalisation company. On question 15, on supervisory law: Social security is carried out on the one hand within the framework of self-government. On the other hand, the supervisory obligation to which I, of course, will be granted at all times, and the supervisory right of the Social Minister – I have exercised the right of supervision in all its forms – also largely consists in the fact that the representatives of the supervisory authority are represented in the relevant bodies. I have, among other things, prescribed measures in the area of rationalization which I have already reported to the main association of the Austrian social security institutions and measures to reduce costs in the individual contractual negotiations with the medical board, the pharmacists and so on. I even took part in negotiations on cost reductions in hospital financing. On question 16: I am not planning any changes to the right of supervision, because I believe that today's legislation is sufficient and that the principle of self-management with the appropriate self-responsibilities makes sense and is close to the citizen. On question 17: There are no total contracts in the medicinal product sector. The prices to be paid by social security shall be agreed with the individual undertakings. The trading margins are based on the price control instruments provided for by law. In the field of relief and aid, the main association has only agreed on percentage adjustments over the last five years, with no tariff increases in this area – for example for bandagists – for this year. All contract adaptations of the individual health insurance companies will not be listed in the short term. It was not possible to determine all contract adaptations and thus to answer your question accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Can we have this in writing, Mr. Minister? You are obliged to submit it!]] I will request this from the main association and let you go in writing. On question 18: The national authorities of the Bandagists and Orthopedic Engineers are the contracting partners of the individual health insurance companies. The Bundesinnung der Bandagisten und Orthopedicietechniker is a contractual partner of the main association. On question 19: On the part of health insurance companies, the respective Board of Directors and the main association of the Presidential Committee or the Association Conference have concluded the general contracts. Question 20: The representatives of the supervisory authority were not involved in the contractual negotiations which take place within the framework of self-management, but only in the relevant decisions of the administrative bodies, i.e. in the Board of Directors or in the Association Conference. In addition, no referral has been made to the officials of my ministry because these contracts are not subject to approval by the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs. On question 21: General contracts do not require approval by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as already mentioned, in accordance with the principle of self-management. On Question 22: The Court of Auditors and the Supervisory Authority did not raise any objections either. On Question 23: I am not aware of a corresponding situation. Question 24: Trade margins of up to 1 000 percent do not exist in this area according to my surveys. There are no trading margins of up to 1 000 per cent in the area of products on account of social security. The trade margins of the bandagists in the area of social security products total around 50 percent on average. Question 25: This is the question of whether I know the ARGE orthopedics or the persons from which the ARGE orthopedics are composed. Answer: No, no, no, In question 26: The ARGE Orthopedics has not been entrusted with any tasks by the main association. In question 27: The negotiations with the Bundesinnung der Bandagists have been under way intensively since 1994. The main association is exclusively employed by social security workers. In question 28: The ARGE Orthopedics is not a negotiating partner of the main association. For this reason, therefore, I cannot judge myself as a supervisory body. Question 29: The main association has not awarded any orders to the research institute for orthopaedics. Regular inquiries to the Research Institute for Orthopedic Engineering, according to my knowledge, are made exclusively by the Vorarlberg Regional Hospital, particularly in connection with the quality of aid for prostheses and orthosis. Costs for individual requests are not covered. The Vorarlberger Landeskrankenkasse is a member of the Research Institute for Orthopedic Engineering. Question 30: As I am aware of the fact that health insurance companies do not pay excessive rates, there has been no damage to patients, to contributors and taxpayers and to health insurance companies. In question 31: Agreements on tariffs are subject to self-management in the main association and individual health insurance companies. Overall, cost-damaging measures have been taken, which will also be further intensified, including by the establishment of enhanced control and controlling mechanisms. Finally, I would like to say that we must first of all see the difference between revenue and expenditure also in relation to total expenditure and that we will in all cases - we will achieve this - that the quality of health care, that the quality of health care, that the progress of the entire medicine is available to everyone in the future without regard to their income. We will make every effort to reduce costs to a reasonable degree, as we have done. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: "As before"!]] The proposals on cost savings have been widely discussed. The legal measures that are necessary for this, and the measures that are at all events necessary to conclude the difference in revenue in order to ensure the equivalence and high quality of health care, will be sent to Parliament after treatment in the government in June. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12036	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12071	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! You think that's funny. This is the old system, where red and black are still in agreement – whether you have a reference problem or not – you agree on the distribution of these profits. I will prove this to you in the course of my speech today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! First of all, I am indignant about how capable You're the "Mister Harmlos" who's playing "Mister's idealess". You say you don't know the people of the ARGE Orthopedics. They don't know which people they are. You probably also know the Director General of the main association, which you have constantly quoted – you say my ministry has with the main association, my ministry does with the main association, my ministry is delegated to the main association, my ministry controls the main association – Dr. Probst, not. Mr. Minister, you said you didn't know the people. [[Interference of the Federal Minister for Human Rights.]] In answering one of our questions, you said you don't know the people. No, I don't know her, have you answered that question? Dr. Probst, who sits in this ARGE orthopedic, you don't know "likely". I already admit that you do not know Dr. Gerd Ivanic, because he is still in professional training, who only cashes off properly. He is not even a trained specialist yet, but writes the Orthopedics of this country devastating letters. You probably don't know the managing director of the Federal Innung der Optiker, Bandagists, orthopedic technicians either. You probably don't know Mr. Primarius Kristen either. – In this regard, ask your Federal Chancellor, that is his brother-in-law. You don't have to do it like the FPÖ was maliciously going on the name Kristen and trying to establish a connection there. I recommend you take a look at the company book. You will find that Mrs. "Bundeskanzler", Mrs. Christine Vrnitzky, the managing director of the company Normalia, is on the side of the orthopedics one of the chief negotiators, especially for the shoe soles – a main product of the company Normalia, an aristized company – is Mr. Dr. Herbert Kristen, Federal Minister! But you probably don't know that either, ladies and gentlemen! Then you say that the ARGE Orthopedics would have – this is the next untruth we caught you in – not at all an order from your ministry or even from the main association. Ladies and gentlemen! I quote from a letter by Dr. Ivanic – he writes it literally to all the bandagists in this country; I quote: The ARGE Orthopedics produces an article catalogue in agreement with the main association of the social insurance companies of Austria and the Austrian Federal Innung der Optiker, Orthopedicetechniker, Bandagisten and Hörgeraukustiker, in which the aid from the bandages, orthoes and compression supply sector available on the Austrian market is listed according to function, indication, execution and quality criteria. – End of the quote, ladies and gentlemen. – "No mission," says the Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In agreement!]] Federal Minister! Sage You are aware of this House's untruth – then you can join Mr Ditz immediately – or are you, in fact, as unsuspecting as it appeared at the beginning of your speech? [[Complaints with the liberals]] Red and black agree when it comes to disbursing the contributors, with the patients to make a cynical, exploitable business with the poor people of this country. Every bandagist will be informed about the Federal Chamber of Commerce – once again signed by a certain commercial councillor Radl; this is the former Federal Introducer's representative, here he will still be signing as the Federal Introducer's representative; and the Managing Director of this Innung, Mr. Dkfm. Karl Drimal – that they have to participate because it is about a lot of money. The registration of the healing aid alone is properly taxed in this "honourable society of friends of the Italian opera", ladies and gentlemen! High house! This "honourable society of friends of the Italian opera" requires a cost contribution of 5 000 p. for the first ten products to be submitted, which are then to be included in this catalogue. The Minister will say: I don't know, I don't know! – This is paid again by the customer, the patient: 5 000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In agreement with the main association!]] For the next ten products: 4000 S, and for all the products submitted each 3 000 S per piece, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, in this ARGE orthopedics, ordinary amounts come together, of course, whose level the Minister does not know. This ARGE is nested, somehow also connected with this strange Commission, Mr Minister, as you do so unsuspectingly, I would like to draw your attention to this Commission, with this Commission, in which those people who are sitting on the side of the relief themselves and then bring them to the people, ladies and gentlemen. That's how the system works! All this in the face of the ministry, because the Minister said: The representatives of the Ministry shall exercise their supervisory right. The representatives of the Ministry shall be present at all meetings. That is why we need to know who's going down in this area. Federal Minister! I'll read to you who's in there: As a representative of the main association, to which you are permanently appointed, Professor Kristen sits in it – as already quoted: The Chancellor's brother-in-law, Mr Probst, is still sitting in it, as I have already told you, whom you probably do not know, but he is from the main association you supposedly know so well. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who is supposed to have no contact!]] Who has no contact either, yes! Furthermore: the chief physician of the Kärntner Landeskrankenkasse Dr. Bernhard Trusnovic, on the other hand a certain commercial councillor Johann Radl, his son-in-law – all of this remains in the family, I have already said so; it is a characteristic of the "friends of the Italian opera" that everything remains in the family – that is, his son-in-law Dr. Ivan, the company Lambert – that is by the way the former innkeeper of Salzburg, a social democrat – the company Gassinger, Innungsmeister of Vienna. It's all in the "Society". Ladies and gentlemen! Lambert and Radl are still intertwined with each other by extensive constructions to be developed in the company's book. Federal Minister! If you don't believe this, I'll do it to you in a private colloquium. They should note that a "honourable" society has already split the market in this area. They say: It's all negotiated, we've done the best rates, it's all customer oriented. They have eroded out the special customer friendliness. I'll tell you: This ARGE Orthopedics, Mr. Federal Minister, is firm – we have not found out for a long time what legal construction this is at all because there is a participation in a company that is constantly first-lined or maximum second-ordered in this product range, in this catalogue – with the sign E. V.. That means that it is a registered association according to German law, ladies and gentlemen. High house! You sit here in Austria and negotiate the tariffs which then look like these, that you pay 800 s for this Neppich, sold this Neppich by 6 600 s, at an extra charge of 725 percent. [[the speaker shows the wound mattress with the inscription]] But the Federal Minister says: About 50 percent of the costs we demand. Ladies and gentlemen! This neppich is not even suitable to serve the patient. This is a so-called wound mattress – geared towards a person of 90 kg. – I do not know how difficult you are, Mr Federal Minister, you can put yourself on it once, you will be hurting your bones within half an hour. However, because of your political weight, I must tell you that after your present performance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This sinteur Neppich is not able to help a patient because one cannot remove the cubes, where the patient is wounded, where he has open skin spots. [[the speaker shows a cube]] And you have to pay the cover that is simply necessary for the patient. All of this despite a juicy self-retaining of 586 S, Minister of State! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a paramedics!]] You think this is funny, Mr. Khol?- Oh, my God! He thinks this is funny. He is still annoyed by the sleep, by a 12 000 s of expensive sleep, which he probably wants to convey to his colleague Fekter. You can have it, but the Austrian will not in future pay for this neppich those amounts that are managed in the Austrian social security institutions, in favour of – I say consciously – individual exploitable profiters who, with cover of the main association – "in agreement" – do indeed – and in the eyes of the Minister of Social Affairs do their very miserable business. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Closed Society!]] Federal Minister! This is crucial – that should lead you to mind – that is one of the main reasons why these margins of 725 percent to 1 000 percent – sleeps that cost 12 000 S; this list can be continued at any time; we have a whole range of products that you can believe you will get a lot in public in this respect – that is one of the reasons why you want to think about increases in contributions in addition to the palaces and administrative costs of the social security institutions. As long as you are not willing to stop this dissatisfaction as long as you do not give these people the craftsmanship, Mr Federal Minister, as long as we are going to go against any kind of increase in contributions with all the means at our command. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! It will not be the case that the brother-in-law of Mr Bundeskanzler, a semi-prepared doctor, a few people from the social insurance sector and the Federal Chamber of Commerce will divide the market, properly disassembly, but on the other hand, they will increase contributions for the contributors and increase self retention, Mr. Federal Minister! There's a need for action. It was clear how you, Mr Federal Minister, were swimming throughout the reply. That was a single swim exercise! You can change the name with your colleague Swimmer, who has fled. In this debate he would rather not be present, otherwise the young ÖVP would again give him his own privileges, which he still enjoys quite extensively in the social security sector! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Swimper has dived!]] Minister! We have seen how lustlessly the Social Democrats have applauded you. The majority of SPÖ representatives are not even here when it comes to how to eliminate maladministrations in the social security institutions. You are not there, if you honestly try to cast the whole thing off, if Mr. Leutner rushes down and back up from the gallery, as if a chicken were looking for a nest in which the last egg can still be laid. Federal Minister! We know why Mr Leutner is so excited. We know why these acids have not been removed to this day: because there are people behind them who fill their pockets properly – and that in front of the eyes of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Please don't tell us about the exercise of the right of supervision. [[Abg. Leikam: The President does better schoolwork!]] You don't think that's what you're doing? – I refer to this as a pigry, if you want another word, I call it exploitation. It was the tradition of the socialists to take action against exploiters. Remember to make the wall instead of these exploiters, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Don't talk about a supposed prudential right. First of all, I must remind you that, according to a legal imperative, you have the duty to control. It means: Supervision shall be exercised by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs as the top supervisory authority. In addition, there is also a supervisory right to control the financial conduct and a supervisory duty of your ministerial colleague from the Federal Ministry of Finance, it is said. The only thing precisely regulated in the law is the fees for Mr. Supervisory Officers. Ladies and gentlemen! How does your supervision look when such things are possible? What does it look like with regard to your supervisory right and your supervisory duty if, I suspect, such things are done by Mr Schwager of the Federal Chancellor and by the Director-General of the main association of social security institutions? Have you really exercised the right of supervision and the duty of supervision? Trust You then claim to be in front of the House: We've got everything under control anyway, and in 14 days it's all under the roof and the compartment?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! This catalogue is to be found on the 1st edition of the catalogue. In July, the Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of [[the speaker shows him]] ==References== According to this catalogue, the cures are to be ordered and settled in Austria. That by means of methods of a "honourable society", where 70 percent of the products that are pre-arranged and have so-called "yes" notes come from the low-cost companies, whose representatives are partly in the Commission, which manages this catalogue of the ARGE Orthopedics registered association according to German law, ladies and gentlemen! – This is something that will cry out to heaven and call on you to take action instead of thinking about increases in contributions and the increase in self-reservation, so that this dissatisfaction will continue to bring the financial resources that would not have to be made available any longer. Federal Minister! If you still believe that we are just picking up something here to tickle you on the sole of the foot, with a drop whose cost Mr Pumberger has told you today, then you are fooling yourself. We will, if it has to be, bring in a whole range of products which will help you to recognize what incredible additions are being made to the incredible trade lines of which a completely miserable and cynical business is being operated with the suffering of the affected Austrian fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why it's time...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12260	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12276	That is why it is time, Mr Federal Minister, to listen to our warnings, which are now being sent to you for the second time in a question.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12306	Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The shattering of chambers, social security, trade unions and so on – these are the objectives of the "F", which has once again shown itself clearly here today, in order to still be able to come to the third Republic. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] - There you can laugh! Finally, laugh, please. It did not work for the chambers; the Austrians knew how to appreciate their interests. That is why today's task, on a day when the Social Minister is available all day on the government bank, is a urgent matter to the health insurance companies! Perhaps something remains to be done so that we can use the financing problems for populist measures. In the preamble of your urgency, Mr Pumberger, you point out that between 1988 and 1994 the staff of the cash registers increased by more than 1 000 people. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Yes!]] That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Thank you for giving me the right!]] But it has also been said today that from 1992 to 1995, the administrative burden, measured by the total effort, fell by two tenths. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Helmut Haigermoser! Would you stop the air now? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: That's where he suffocates!]] The increase in human resources therefore concerns health, ladies and gentlemen, and this cannot be emphasised clearly and often enough here. Thanks to progressive development, people are getting older and more to caregivers also need more caregivers and more treatment staff. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Care staff, not administrative staff!]] They must not mention home care, medical care, rehabilitation measures, psychotherapy. To destroy the health sector of the cash registers, ladies and gentlemen of the "F" is the particular interest of Mr Pumberger, because cash offices that do not have their own health facilities are dependent on established doctors and therefore absolutely manageable. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But this is an understatement!]] Mr Pumberger, that is the equivalent of a partnership. It is essential for insured persons to have their own health facilities, for reasons of quality assurance and to be able to provide the insured in the event of a non-contractual condition. The task of health institutions would mean the loss of independence. They have today adopted themselves so "loving" by Professor Kristen. He is one of the medical consultants in the negotiation team of the main association, but he has no influence on pricing. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: At the Mafia-ARGE!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, of course!]] That's what you'll be able to research. But you claimed that Professor Kristen designed the prizes so to speak. And he has no influence on that! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Why do you know this if the Federal Minister does not know?]] I just know! I've had time to research! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you know how to get to the farm?]] I don't know, I'd have to ask her! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] But I'll beg you! On their frequent claim, insurance instead of compulsory insurance: Thus we would have patients of two classes, the one who could afford a high premium, and the poor ones who would remain in compulsory insurance. There, of course, one would have to pay much higher contributions because the lost first group would be missing in the pot, ladies and gentlemen! Additional insurances in the outpatient sector rarely pay contributions to health insurance benefits, they cover only the extra expenses in the hospitals and take out risk cover, such as HIV, TB or mental diseases. – Mr. Dr. Pumberger as a doctor and medical chamber officer should actually know that. Private insurance also does not insure gender-neutral, ladies and gentlemen, if that should be new to you. Women of childbearing potential pay higher premiums, and I believe that is enough of discrimination against women. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The social security scheme is against sexual neutrality!]] The combination of social insurance institutions – also such a hobby of yours. The Hausemann study says something else. But maybe wish. You'll get rid of the regional cash registers at all. If we look for the center of Austria on the drawing board, we will build a glass palace there, and then the Vorarlberger or the Burgenländer will see how it comes to its right. It's a fine thing, too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Vorarlbergers have surpluses!]] In any case, surpluses to Stadlers, that's clear. But because you like reading newspapers so much, I also have something to read from the "time", and that is by no means a social democratic postille. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You've been reading all the time!]] That's it? You're going to be wrong! But that doesn't matter! You can't know that either. "Poor unwanted," it says. "In the competition for lucrative customers, the health insurance companies resort to rough methods." Because Mr Pumberger today praised what is happening in Germany: "Germany's highest-ranking cash office has suspected: 'The health insurances...'" [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does such a sleep cost in Germany?]] Oh, my God, you can put down a sleeper without a doubt, but present the bill for an orthopaedic shoe! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He even has a number, a product number!]] I can also tell you something about these mattresses. My father was a nursing case for ten years. We have been able to close a decubitus with such mattresses. And I'll tell you one thing: The bed together with the mattresses did not cost so much at the time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Say the prices! The trading team!]] I said something for the price! If you'd listen! – The bed with the mattresses didn't cost so much. [[Abg. Dr. Stadler: I got the evidence!]] Yeah, it's all right. Probably the patient is on the ground with you, you don't need a bed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look, I got the evidence!]] I have made this observation on my own sad experience, and now let me read what I want to read to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (making institutions to go to the speaker) If you are interested, I can show you!]] That's what you're going to bring me, but please don't touch me, I don't like that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't want to know!]] Yes, I want to know. "Germany's highest-ranking cash office has suspected: ‘The health insurance companies will curse the day when the competition was proclaimed.’ A ‘dead fight for members’ of the legal cash registers was predicted by the chairman of the Federal Medical Association. This prophecy begins to be fulfilled: Since Federal Minister of Health Horst Seehofer also ordered the competition from the legal health insurance system, the cash desks have been paying for young, healthy and well-situated members. At the same time, they are trying to reduce pensioners and social assistance beneficiaries to competition." Here I will find: "From the point of view of cash, the millions of insured persons, who are in wages and bread, are allowed to switch to the cash register from January 1997. ==References====External links== ==References== Although the legislator leaves the cash registers in competition, the legal representatives have virtually little opportunity to profile themselves. 95 percent of their services are required by law. The only relevant difference is the contribution rate, and this is all the less, the healthier and richer its own members are. The recruitment of young, single and healthy workers and skilled workers is expected to continue to increase." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Let's look at this in a year!]] We will! Then you can read more: "The local health phone now fears to sit on the bad risks in the course of the competition – and lose the last good but good. Because replacement banks fish systematically in their waters. Targeted, the replacement banks write potential customers, the pre-formulated notice of termination is attached. The post office also takes over the replacement funds. External staff go to businesses and expect employers and employees to see how much money they can save when they change. Where the replacement banks themselves cannot buy members, they use others for themselves." That's a special sugar. "For example, one has been trying to walk in doctor's practice for a year. With the award ceremony, one animated doctors for the advertising of members, titled: ‘They bring us a new member, we bring you to the Comoros.’” "Critics of competition feel confirmed in the light of the new methods. Who advertises for the old and chronically ill? The fight for the ‘good risks’ led to old and poor being pushed from cash to cash." "The health insurance system lacks the incentive to provide a good treatment for chronically ill." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mrs. Colleague, what's going on in Austria?]] "Under competitive conditions, a cash register is doing well to treat the multi-morbid patients as badly as possible." [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We find the states in Austria unsustainable!]] "Cashes could, for example, refuse to provide voluntary services such as acupuncture. The best thing a checkout can happen is that the patient leaves them angry." This is the horror scenario you wish for Austria. I tell you, 99 percent of the Austrian population is involved in the health and health insurance system. The population is guaranteed to participate in medical progress regardless of their income. Ours Social system is one of the best in the world, and we certainly don't let you do that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12691	Mr Feurstein is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12712	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Members of the FPÖ! In words such as "Sud", "cynical business", "exhaustive action", "sinning" and many others you used in the discussion today, do not solve the problems we are facing. With none of these words! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What do you solve them with?]] And I would really like to ask you, in all seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Ofner, for all the seriousness of the situation – we do not explore the seriousness of the situation before which we stand – but this is not the way to scandalize! And you, Dr. Ofner, are more and more scandalizing. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Think about what you did!]] That's not how it is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we also know that it is a very serious problem with the trade margins in remedy, aid, medicines. This is a very serious problem. We have also recognized this problem of trade tensions in all the discussions in the field of social partners, which were also conducted by us politicians, not only in 1996, but already in 1995 and 1994. You know exactly that we, also the Minister, have already put our finger on this wound much earlier than you have. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: laid, but not solved! That's all!]] They are following today and are now trying to beat political capital out of it, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! That's not how it is! Yes, I'm coming to the sleepers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look at the sleeper!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're playing with me, colleague! They're playing with the scams!]] I'm coming to this subject right now, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're playing with the scams!]] Don't rain up like that! It now feels everyone in what situation you are in, that you just want to scandalize, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! But I'm coming to sleep now. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're playing with these scams!]] Dr. Pumberger! I have already heard such examples, yes, I have already heard that someone has received such a high cost. You are Upper Austrian... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Too high! The health insurance fund pays for this!]] No, not the health insurance fund pays it, but it comes from the pension insurance institution of the workers. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Of course!]] That didn't pay the health insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Social security is in place!]] But it doesn't matter at all. The pension insurance institution of the workers paid it. What's the first way, Dr. Pumberger? What is the first way a Member of this House has to go? He can't wait for the second time. ==References== June. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Well, if he didn't get it before!]] I'm going to the pension insurance institution and let this case be clarified. And I guarantee you that I will clarify him. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An individual case, Mr. Cot!]] Mr Nürnberger and I will clarify this case, and many other cases you have mentioned today, as well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You've been trying to cover this up for a long time!]] You can't blame me for hiding things! You can't blame me, Dr. Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did you know about the ARGE Orthopedics?]] It was different with you. With you, the squats are whistling from the roofs. I've never done that like you, Dr. Ofner! That's not my way of doing it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What did you do?]] What you have done, Dr. Ofner – you should be silent today! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: What did you do?]] You should be silent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What you listed in Lower Austria doesn't speak for you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The soup is too thin, Mr. Ofner!]] The soup is too thin, he said. Yeah, she was too thin. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Well, this thing, ladies and gentlemen... [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] If you calm down, I'll go on! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Keep talking!]] Dr. Haider, I'm still talking! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We just want to know what you did!]] I'll tell you. In the negotiations which have been conducted so far by the Ministry, also by the social partners, together with the main association, we have shown that in the field of remedies, remedies and aids, pricing has not yet been market-compliant. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The speech of the Feurstein should be distributed to the disabled!]] Secondly, price differences need to be reduced. They were here and there too big and too big. I could also give you examples. We've shown this. Trade margins need to be adapted to take account of the European level. – These are all things that have already been fixed before you. – Through Community projects, a reasonable handling of drugs must be done – a very important area! Ladies and gentlemen! These measures set out savings of 1 billion Schilling for 1997. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, we must save in this area, and there are restrictions in this order. I say it again, Dr. Ofner: If you remember, the first step in this direction was already taken in 1995, in 1996, at the beginning of this year. However, I would also like to say to you: It's not just about the medications, it's not just about the reliefs, it's not just about the aids we're talking about today, where we're making savings. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 17 billion schilling! That's a huge sum!]] Yes, in this area there will be no double-digit growth rates in the next year. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Here I am curious!]] There will be lower growth rates, I call them you. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You should abolish the 1,000 percent trading margin once! That's the piggy!]] They're being abolished. I've already explained that to you. There's a second area. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I still feel your nervousness, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, but you can't get me out of peace. I am Vorarlberger, and we Vorarlberger are sober and clear and clear in thinking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr. Stadler isn't always, he's always emotional. You can't get me out of peace. I often drive home. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Excellent! Go home!]] I'm different. I have to tell you that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Can I make a little comment now? I regularly take the train home with the night train, and then I know again and again what I have to do as a Vorarlberger. Mr Stadler is constantly in Vienna and has therefore already given up his original seriality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Yeah, that's it. You're too much in Vienna. You used to have a good seriality as a Vorarlberger, and you lost something. You're not as serious as you used to be. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There will be no joy for the Viennans!]] Although I have to say that – I must also mention it, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that in the light of completeness. Of course, the Vorarlberg liberals have always said: For us it is better if Dr. Stadler is in Vienna, because then we win again elections in Vorarlberg. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The municipal elections in Mäder have clearly shown it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Theme!]] - I'll be back on the subject. – I remember the municipal representation elections in Mäder in contrast to the municipal representation elections in Nenzing or in contrast to the municipal representation elections in the municipality of Vandans, where there must have been very good and very well-known politicians: [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: How many percent did FPÖ get in Vorarlberg?]] But not in girls. Freedom policy has not been recognized, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Well, I'm concerned about the seriousness of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really concerned about the seriousness of the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Why are you talking about the hot bitch around?]] No, I come now to the second point where we believe that there is also a need for a change. Not only for medications, not only for aids, not only for reliefs. We also believe that the area of hospitals and hospitals has very large potential for savings. They didn't talk about it today; consciously not talking about it. We're talking about it. I'll just call you two numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're just talking about it and you're not bringing anything else!]] No, I also call you the numbers, the results. Mr Haider, I shall now call you the numbers, and then you will see that success has been achieved here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell us how the deficit came about!]] In Vorarlberg, the performance-oriented billing system was introduced in 1995. In previous years, the costs in the hospitals in Vorarlberg country have increased as in all of Austria, namely in 1994 the total cost of hospitals rose by 4.2 percent, similar to the rest of Austria. In 1995, after the introduction of this new system, the increase in total expenditure is only 2.9% – from 4.2 percent increase to 2.9%. A reduction of 6.8 per cent to 3.3 per cent has been made in staff expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, about half! And it's not supposed to be said that we didn't do anything else. There are areas where we can bring about a change in which we have brought it! - Yes, at the hospitals! This method, this billing system, is part of the hospital reform decided and introduced by the financial partners with the Social Minister, with the Minister of Finance in the Burgenland a few weeks ago. It constitutes an essential measure to ensure the financing of our hospitals and thus the entire health care system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call you the third area in which the Minister of Social Affairs has made very significant changes: the contractual doctors to which Dr. Pumberger belongs. He has not said a word about it because he is a person concerned, because of course he does not like to see one agree on a moderate increase in fees – this is also a reduction in cost developments in the next few years; this is true already in 1997. This is a success of the measures in the area of improving the financial conditions of hospitals and health care as a whole. I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. For us, there are four principles to be taken into account in these reforms, in these changes which we will decide before the summer: First of all: no deterioration of medical services – this is very important. Medical services for our sick people must not get worse. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: No reduction of tensions!]] Yes, I have been talking about reducing the tension, but there must be no deterioration in medical services and medical care. Second point – this is just as important –: reasonable saving. Third point – also a very important point for us –: increased awareness of costs. Fourth point: In all the measures we are taking, we must protect the socially weak and, above all, the children. I do not want to go further now, we will discuss this in detail in the next few days and weeks. These four points concern us with these measures. But one thing I guarantee you: The examples you have mentioned, I will and will be followed by the ÖVP – I am convinced that many of the SPÖ – will follow. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I hope so!]] Let's not let this sit on us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Here we will act inconspicuously and bring things into the right lot. But what we have done in the field of hospitalization, the financing of our entire health care, our local health telephone, we are going through. We do not let ourselves be destroyed by you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13279	To make an actual correction, honourable Member has the power to do so. Stadler. I refer to the Rules of Procedure and three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13303	Mr Feurstein has made the claim in the blatant part of his speech that I would never travel to Vorarlberg. Of course I don't travel to Andelsbuch in Vorarlberg to Gottfried Feurstein, but it's verifiable – you just need to ask my wife – that I'm at home on time every weekend. I do not want to experience the fate of many ministers. Second point: Mr Feurstein also referred to the results of the elections, but he was wrong in remembering them. I can remind you: Municipal election of Mäder: 34 percent ÖVP losses, country election results: 18 percent, National Council election result with Stadler: 28 percent. Losses in the municipality of Andelsbuch, from which Gottfried Feurstein comes: 8 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13339	Mr Hums has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13360	In addition to the answer to the question, I would like to add the words of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler: I explained in my reply to the question – and this is a hundred percent – that I do not know the ARGE orthopedics. I also say to you that it would be absolutely impossible to know all negotiators, as well as all negotiating positions concluded by social security schemes within the framework of their self-government, within the framework of supervisory and supervisory law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't you mind?]] I would therefore like to say to you: I have not declared that I do not know Director-General Dr. Probst, but I have explained – and that is true – that I do not know the ARGE Orthopedics. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Be careful!]] In the meantime, I can reply to your claim that Director-General Dr. Probst is a member of this ARGE and say that Dr. Probst has declared me entirely credible that he is not a member of this ARGE. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But he signed a letter!]] I don't know how many other claims are drawn by you in the same way. Again: I don't know this ARGE, I don't know its objectives either. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (keeping a letter in height) Why does he then sign this letter?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here it says: ARGE!]] She's not a negotiating partner of mine either, so I can repeat that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: They're letting him throw out!]] The shoe you always demonstrate here can certainly not be a really approved orthopaedic shoe. That's impossible. It is quite possible that products will be sold under a false declaration somewhere, but, according to my assessment of this distance, it can certainly not be a shoe that is recognized somewhere as an orthopaedic shoe. I'm not an orthopaedic, I'm not a specialist in this field – I want to emphasize that – but it's impossible according to the positions I'm familiar with. – As I said, I don't know every negotiating position. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You will have to accept these things!]] Back to the first point: I don't know the ARGE Orthopedics. I don't even know if the companies are, I don't know what goals they have. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Most worrying if you don't know his visa fish!]] Dr. Probst has assured me that he is not a member of this ARGE. It would also be strange if this was a company composition. I also have to reject all these cryptic attacks concerning relations with the Federal Chancellor and so on. It can't be. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not cryptic, quite open! Quite open attacks! It's legible everywhere!]] But I can tell you one thing: My instructions to the main association, which has already been made in the previous year and which is also leading to results this year, namely to reduce costs in all areas where this is possible for insured persons without loss of quality, also applies to this area. I can assure you – even if I can't know every position –: All the accusations you have made here, Mr Mag. Stadlers, they're going to be checked most concretely. I cannot rule out from the outset that there has been mistakes somewhere, but if there have been mistakes, then they will be fixed! That's what I wanted to tell you. If you had such suspicions – I can only agree with Mr Feurstein’s comments – it would have been reasonable... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Just not in plenary! You're trying to put that under the carpet somehow!]] Also in Parliament, of course. Dr. Ofner! I have been in the National Council myself for so long, so I reaffirm every control right of Parliament, that is no question at all. Let me tell you again: My order to reduce costs has been made for all areas: administration, medical care, the area of medicine and also the area of other remedies – but always without loss of quality for the insured. If you find faults and defects, each of these errors that you have identified here will be checked. I'll tell you if it's true or not. Again: Director-General Dr. Probst assured me that he did not listen to this ARG, although at the moment I did not even know – because I do not know the objectives of the ARG – whether this was bad in itself or not. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is adventurous! Then why does he sign the letter?]] Furthermore, he is not at all entitled to do so, because Dr. Probst is not a representative of a company. They're talking about mergers and they've quoted a contract here, which is supposed to be from 1. It is expected to apply in July. This contract is not known to me. It is only known to me that the main association has the instruction to reduce costs in all areas. And that, as in the field of medicinal products, as in the field of drugs, the negotiations are being conducted in such a way that costs are reasonably reduced, I can say to you here. I cannot promise you – and I will never be able to do so – that I know every negotiating position, but I can promise you that in every negotiating position the costs will be reduced and that, if there is any blatant maladministration, these will be remedied within the framework of my supervisory duty and my supervisory right.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13538	Mr Dr Kier has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13568	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The urgent question is about a point that is known all over the world: There's no money! There is an attempt here to put an additional focus in a debate all day long, despite the fact that the whole day is filled with this focus. But, well, it is. What has been the spectacular now? – First of all, we have been shown very impressively which percentage margins can occur. I am not prepared and unable to check whether the figures mentioned are correct, but I assume that they have some plausibility. I also know that this is a problem which has not been known and is being tried to solve as such since Mr Pumberger and Mr Stadler have presented it here. We know that there are real problems, especially in the area of relief; for example, the purchase prices are in no relation to the proceeds later achieved. Whether these are really the differences mentioned here does not matter. In fact, we know it is. The fact that this has come to such an extent is one of the issues that we need to discuss subsequently, since, I believe, it clearly shows that the self-government mechanisms have failed. But all of this was not the concern of the urgent question. From my point of view, it was the concern of this urgent request to present in impressive theatrical form that some maladministration had already been revealed, namely an abuse called ARGE orthopaedics. The ARGE Orthopedics was mystified, represented as a company design, as referred to in Germany as a registered association – it was effortlessly possible for me to verify, during Mr Stadler's speech or immediately thereafter, that these representations should be objectively incorrect. It's a club, it's apparently right... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why "can"?]] Because I do not rely on oral statements, dear colleague, that I represent them as apodic truth. I'll tell you: My subjective assessment is that the suspect construction presented here is consciously supported only by hypotheses, is consciously made up only of suspicions and never has evidence taken place. It is an association that I was able to research, but it is an association registered in Austria at the Security Directorate for the Styria, so it is not a mysterious German association. It would therefore be useful to continue to research with the association authority there in order to determine how this association is composed. I'm inviting everyone to do it. But what else happened? It'll be much more interesting! What is the task of this association according to the information available to me? . He has set himself the task of developing a quality and indication catalogue for relief aid with the aim of enabling a call for these reliefs to be suspended in the future in the very future, which Mr Pumberger and Mr Stadler have presented here. Now I'm wondering, Was it only luck and chance that I was able to carry out, in a very short time, a research which has produced these findings, or have the colleagues also had the same research opportunity and perceived, but nevertheless called names of alleged members of this ARG from the speaker's desk, knowing that they are under immunity, and knowing that those concerned cannot justify themselves? It sounded quite plausible. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Kier, the defenseman of the system!]] I'm not a defender of duty, Mr. Haider. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Volker Kier, the defender of duty!]] I'm not a defenseman! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am of the opinion that, when a Member uses his parliamentary immunity here, we make allegations and it is possible to obtain information within a very short time, which makes the objective inaccuracy of these claims appear to be extremely likely, probably once again to deal with one of those cases... [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] I'm asking you to let me talk! Mr President, I would ask that this be done.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13637	I believe, Mr President, that you are quite voting enough to get it yourself. - If you continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13652	Mr President, I thank you for your support. I say once again that one of the best examples is that people who are in the situation of the accused are unable to justify themselves. The whole thing is being carried out here using parliamentary immunity – because with the extra-parliamentary, this is no longer quite comfortable, Mr Haider. I am of the opinion that the matter needs a more detailed examination, but not without regard to the principle: Audiatur et alfa pars! Also the other part may be heard! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Dear Mr. Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Dear Mr. Kier!]] As far as the difference from the Group to the Right is concerned, I do not claim to know exactly what is. I'm just gonna notice... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: With the group you belong to...! You should know her!]] I can only say that what is happening here is not a parliamentarianism of fair cutback. That's what I'm saying. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Oh, the defender of duty!]] It may be unpleasant now that in the same stenographic protocol, in which the allegations were made, there are relativities to these allegations, and I do not want to explore that in the [[Abg. May. Stadler: campaign defender!]] The area of these remedies actually gives serious inconsistencies. I put that out of dispute. [[Call to the liberals: Well!]] I put that out of dispute! I only refuse to take part in supporting the conduct of evidence on such methods. I refuse! [[Abg. Aumayr: Only because they come from the liberals!]] It may be incomprehensible from the point of view of the liberals, but it not only comes to the content, it also depends on the form. Whoever does not know the form, does not do a good service to parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That is enough of submission to the Social Democrats now!]] That's not a question cui bono? in this context, but that is a question of honesty, a question of conscience. That is why I say again: The matter is interesting and worthy of investigation, but I do not like the way in which the ARGE orthopaedics were presented and called names, without the interested parties having the opportunity to reproduce. And a lightning search has produced that all of this is extremely unlikely and that the purpose is to obtain a catalogue for a tender. There are now two options: Either you knew that and have here, with better knowledge, raised these accusations, or you didn't know, then you have inaccurately researched! That is very important to me! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do not accuse others in the protection of immunity! Don't you even notice that?]] Dear Ofner! I'm not accusing anyone. I'm just making one statement to another. Unfortunately, she is not in conflict with this, and that is unpleasant to you. I can understand. But as long as the honourable Member is not deprived of the free word, we will make use of it, even if not everyone likes it. [[Call to the liberals: We all know you! You're not an unwritten leaf, either!]] It is not about being pleasing here, but about being able to stand upright here. I mean, not everyone in this house can do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I would also not like to spread on the question itself, but I would just like to say that the Federal Minister needs some explanation in this regard. I would like to highlight one point in particular: Cost savings will be possible if we put the weight on the impact of the risk course – I say this deliberately so technically – that is, if we are much more concerned with prevention and rehabilitation. From a liberal point of view, we see very substantial potential to address the clear financing problem in the field of health insurance. We simply believe that the access of the main association and the self-management social security institution is wrong: There is little consideration for prevention and rehabilitation. We still believe that the issue of insurance obligations on the one hand and compulsory insurance on the other, on the other, includes one of the approaches to achieve cost-effective effects. One thing is also very important to me – I think that is particularly important; it was the most worrying in the reply of the Federal Minister –: We currently have a legal financial claim of 26 weeks in the field of the sick, but 78 weeks have been practiced so far. However, the empty cash offices force the self-government organizations to go back to the legal standard. It will not benefit much economically if you raise it to 52 weeks. The legal framework is not the problem, the problem is the missing money. If you now support the deficit with a legal framework of 52 weeks, so to speak, through a law, then go the wrong way. It would be right to find means and ways to keep the 78 weeks possible. Whether there is a legal obligation of 26 or 52 weeks is not quite that crucial. The main question is how much the autonomous scope of social security funds is. He last lived between 26 and 78 weeks. Now the pressure of the finances, the insurance companies must return to the legal border. If you raise the legal limit to 52 weeks, then this is only a apparent improvement, because last it was 78 weeks. And I would ask you to consider whether this is actually a mirror fight. As the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have not yet been able to calm down, I would like to say to you once again that their attempt to dissociate individuals has been misguided. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do not slander us under the protection of immunity! You're exploiting immunity, my dear Volker!]] It will not always be possible to implement the saying of the short legs as quickly as possible; today it may have succeeded, and I am very pleased. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13857	Mr Oellinger has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13878	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: I am not convinced that it makes sense to conduct the debate on the sick cash registers requested by the Freedom Party in such a way that one only talks about the ARGE orthopedics, whether the Freedom Party has used the right or the wrong information, yes or no, that the debate is practically only held at this level. We are therefore doing a great deal of opportunity, which would be in and out of this question, if only it had been brought a little cleaner by the founder of the request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I admit to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, that you have raised wounded points. I admit that to you! I do not want to say that one has to deal with the issues of cures, reliefs, because there is indeed a lot in the wrong way. But on the grounds of the question – and this is something that has bothered me very much – a subject that would be worth seriously discussing, was dealt with in a way that I believe to arouse unpleasant memories. If the self-administration, which I would like to discuss with you, is being treated from the point of view of the bacon that lives on our money, then I must say to you: This comparison with insects, this kind of metaphors, I know enough and I refuse to do enough! There you must be moderate in your tone in your discussion about self-management. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But if you have heard exactly, you know that I meant the overpaid officials!]] It is not a question of you blaming the overpaid officials – rightly or wrongly – for those who you think are overpaid. I don't blame you for that. I accuse you of committing yourself in the pictures that you use pictures, namely pictures of insects, made in bacon – what do you do with made ones in the bacon? – the bad memories and which are by no means suitable to help us here in the debate somehow. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your colleague Stoisits wanted to put us all in prison for life! What was that?]] I would also like to say to the people in self-government who listen here in the house and follow the debate, including your colleague, Mr Donabauer: I consider the system of self-administration to be unfortunate in view of what has been played in the health insurance sector in recent weeks and months – I repeat: unfortunately! – very thoughtful. I have to say that honestly. I therefore think it is worth considering, because I cannot see any sense in the fact that there is a self-government, but there is nothing to talk about, that there is a self-administration which, although ordered by the social partners, has nothing to talk about, because the social partners outside self-government have tried to speak the big word and have also tried to bring in the reform proposals and their representatives within self-government have only functioned as governors. I very much regret that the actual representatives of the social partners in the self-government have also tried, in all these debates, to reform the health insurance system, in order to avoid the necessary savings, but the social partners have tried, at an upper level outside self-government, to reorganise this problem, but have failed. The failure of the social partners on this issue is also linked to the failure of self-management. The self-management, which has nothing to talk about, which in fact only receives the orders from the superimposed bodies, has not progressed and is no longer suitable to solve the health insurance problems in fact. Such self-government, ladies and gentlemen, no matter which side you think it is pointless. Such self-management does not make any more perspective. A self-management would only make sense if it actually took time to involve the insured in this system, to make them partners within self-government, because even the insured are the ones who finance this self-government. It is still not the social partners and the ministers who finance social security and health insurance! Ladies and gentlemen! We should also consider that. If we can no longer take this into account and want to, because we have already adopted ourselves spiritually by the self-government system, then we should draw the consequences of it and give up this self-administration, which actually acts only as an extended arm of the social partners or commanders of the ministry. This debate would have to be held, also in connection with the reform of the health insurance companies. I have now heard some recipes that we should follow. First of all, in today's debate on the recipe for Enlightenment, Mr Feurstein proposed. He is confident that, together with some other colleagues, he will clarify the maladministrations that exist in the field of health insurance. Mr Feurstein! That's not enough for me! It is not a question of us or anyone else – an insured person, an insured person – having the grace to come to you or to someone else, so that the maladies or possible malaises in health insurance are resolved. That's not the question. In my view, it is primarily not a question of maladministration within health insurance, but of a lack of health insurance, which has very concrete causes to be identified. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I called it!]] The causes and shortcomings of health insurance must be identified! They have been mentioned in part in the social partners' study; they have also been mentioned here in the debate. We should discuss this and not discuss any abuses that you or someone else here in this House – Mr Nuremberger, for example – would like to give us information. Enlightenment alone as a recipe for rehabilitating the cash registers will not be enough, Mr Feurstein! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I didn't say that either!]] It is also not enough to promote savings as a measure, Mr Feurstein, especially if it is apparent that the savings are often done in the wrong place. My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, has already pointed out more often how pointless this saving in the field of health insurance is in some places. If you, as a wheelchair driver – this example, she has cited – only because you do not have the necessary care, have to go to the hospital in case of a wheelchair defect on a weekend, and thus grow up costs of over 10,000 s for the two days in which you lie, then there is a lot in the bad. If you are a bedridden patient, in the Styria, I believe that you will no longer receive wound documents, that is why you will get a decubitus and have to go to the hospital, because the health insurance fund is no longer ready to pay the wound deposits, then there is something wrong with the system and also with the saving that is being done in the wrong place. For example, if in the area of childbirth and birth preparation the main association of social security providers is obviously still unable and unwilling to conclude a collective agreement with the midwives, which finally grants the midwives rights which allow them to take care of the pregnant at a decent rate that is still far below that of the doctors, then there is a lot in it and then there is a wrong place to be saved. These are points on which one can see that this blind-anged saving, which is obviously also partially operated in the field of health insurance, is not the right answer. I already admit, Minister, many of these proposals that you have discussed, we have also made and proposed. It's a lot I can support. But with these short-sighted and really stupid savings measures, which are made in different areas, you can and can't clean up the health insurance funds. Next example: self retention. Minister! A few months ago, you answered a detailed question on the subject of self retention. It is amazing and shocking that, although we in Austria have a lot of self-maintenance in the field of health insurance, no one in the main association or in the health insurance companies can provide information about how high the administrative burden is, for example, in this self-maintainment, which is actually spent on the administration of this self-retaining. We only know the old Chamber of Workers' Investigation, which was carried out on the basis of the introduction of self-retaining in the hospital of relatives and which shows that the administrative burden in this self-retaining is obviously very high. So that's with one word a senseless restraint. This is a restraint that makes no sense – if you already want to discuss the system of self retention. I think it is in principle problematic. But if you want to maintain self retention in the health system, you have to do it differently than we do in Austria, where you offer 20, 30, 40 different self retention or non-paid benefits. The crowning of teeth, for example, is a performance that is no longer paid; there is the self retention 100 percent. So if you make it so that you actually already have a multi-class health system in certain areas, then you also have to discuss the issue of self retention differently. Because the form of self-preservation that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are always discussing and thinking, according to the motto: there is a little something there, since a little something, is pointless and makes no perspective! As another example of how to clean up the health insurance funds, it has been suggested that the contributions should be increased. Ladies and gentlemen! To increase contributions is always a prime means, because it is relatively simple. I would also like to say quite honestly that I am not in principle opposed to any increase in contributions, but before an increase in contributions, before we have Greens' consent to an increase in contributions, there must be a clearly defined structural concept. We are not willing to agree to an increase in contributions that in the final effect only serves to cover the cost-enhancing elements that exist in certain areas – whether that is the stationary area, the doctors' fees, the drug costs or the aids. If the increase in contributions only serves to cover these rising costs, then there is no consent from us! But if, in all the areas mentioned above and some more actually, structural measures are taken, you can count on our support for an increase in contributions that makes sense. Ladies and gentlemen! But there is the problem that there are still different rates of contributions from workers and employees. If we really want to address the system of contribution rates, it should also be borne in mind that it was all our clear concern to bring about equality between workers and employees in the field of labour and social rights and the social measures we are discussing in this context. This means that there should be a contribution adjustment which is a step in this direction or a longer-term perspective in this direction. But I still haven't heard of that. As far as competition between insurance companies, which has also been announced as a recipe, is concerned, the most important thing has already been said by Mr Reitsamer. I do not think this is a suitable instrument to actually bring about a recovery of the health insurance funds. Some have also been said by the liberals in the past, but this has clearly been forgotten. Minister! They have addressed the issue of tobacco tax as an opportunity to improve something on the revenue side as well. I'll hold you back. I would rather take up the car tax instead of the tobacco tax, because it addresses a factor, namely the car, which also does not cause low costs in the health sector, and also because the tobacco tax tends to be a falling tax – I think and I hope – but the car tax will certainly not be a downward tax in the next few days. But I would have a much simpler proposal, because there was nothing to attack on taxes at all: Minister! First: In the Council of Ministers, work towards the introduction of a lower speed limit on Austria's roads, namely 110/80/30. That would create room for the health insurance companies! We do not discuss these issues in these contexts. But with this we create scope, we can limit costs – only by a different tempo limit! No one has to pay for that anymore. Costs are avoided. If you are committed to doing so, we can also save a lot of costs in the health field. Secondly, In the Council of Ministers, also work to ensure that the other alcohol limit is finally introduced, namely, a reduction of 0.8% to 0.0%. Work for this, and we will save a lot of costs in the health insurance sector! I'm just telling you one more thing: The method proposed by the Liberals, namely the introduction of the Karenztag, is not a method for us. With us Greens, there is no way in the direction to build new loads. With us Greens, ladies and gentlemen, no matter which parties, there is only one way in which to convert health insurance funds into health insurance and the patients to make the insured participants. That's what I'm on the last point. Mr Guggenberger! I welcome it absolutely and stand by it – and it would be a start of this powerful participation by citizens and insured persons – that they will finally learn what the doctor costs. This would be a modest start to take a step towards cost transparency and cost modesty.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13971	Mrs Povysil is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14009	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what a burleske is? A Burleske is a comic improvisation piece in the form of the Commedia dell’arte, a farce, a pose. If I look at the current situation in the field of Austrian health and the debate on health insurance, I cannot spare you the accusation that this is a Burleske, Mr Feurstein. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's a beautiful thing!]] We need to increase the contributions, you say. - We have to introduce restraints, you say. That's how this verbal ping pong has been for months. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a travesty and not a burleske!]] A result still stands out for the audience. Of course, it only seems that the applause will not end and that Burleske will end as a tragedy. Minister! Please stop blaming us again and again and listen to a neutral observer commenting on your works. Quote: "Austria's well-knownly pretty bankrupt health insurance companies have it well. In order to avoid the threat of insolvency, they will probably simply increase contributions and reduce benefits in the near future. This is so simple if the clientele of law has to take advantage of the performance of a monopoly company and has not even the smallest chance to opt out on other providers. This circumstance is extremely angry and costly, but not surprising. In planned systems, the customer of the stupid is always the end. This has already been so in the GDR and is no different in Austrian healthcare." [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Of whom is this quote?]] Mr. Federal Minister! Today, we have ordered you before this House to account for you – so that you can account for how this Federal Government should get under control of the threat of insolvency of the Austrian healthcare system. [[Federal Minister Hums nockt]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 3.6 billion schilling is the hole that the cash registers have. And in the following year it will grow even bigger. The patient should be saved, the contributor should be saved. As you will explain to us that the social security companies have also strapped a savings package, I must say to you in advance: This is a tiny savings package, this is a cosmetic facelifting. The pressure of the population was so enormous that the main association has had to come up with something. I would like to make a comparison, namely the comparison between the harsh conditions used in the private sector and the conditions in the protected functional area. For example, while Semperit, with a workforce of 2,400, has chained a savings package of 400 million Schilling, only modest 330 million Schilling are saved in the fully protected area of social security with 29 000 employees. Let me give you an example, from my federal state: The fact that the Upper Austrian regional funds maintain the largest external network among all the funds in Austria, and that the ambulators had to record a decline of around 180 million schilling in 1989-93, is particularly striking in the context of the current discussion on reductions in performance and increases in contribution. The health insurance companies should at last focus on what their actual task is, namely, their own achievements, rather than their hard-to-use deficient ambulatories. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This does not fall within the scope of a health insurance fund at all. Ambulatorys are operated for prestige reasons, they are operated for ideology reasons, and they make competition with these ambulatorys their own contract doctors. We call for the privatisation of these ambulators! The insurances should focus on their regular benefits, the established medical profession should focus on the patients. It would also be absurd if In addition, a doctor acts as a social insurance institution. In total, it is 6 billion schillings a year that manages the in-house ambulatorys together with the two hospitals operated by the Wiener GKK. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to be explained to the contributors, who are directly moving from the political and chamber areas to social security! In Upper Austria, for example, the caretaker of the Landeskrankenkasse is immediately deducted from his remuneration. There's no order. It would be very interesting to take stock of what amounts of salaries, fees and remuneration are generated by the functionality in the cash registers. It is also very remarkable that neither Mr Donabauer nor Mr Schwimmer spoke on the situation of the cash registers today. Is that what you're not doing? Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, the time is now ripe to have an honest and comprehensive discussion on compulsory insurance, which from a free point of view must necessarily be converted into an insurance obligation on the free market! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] From my point of view, it is hardly any more to argue that a State monopoly service can provide more favourable and better than competing providers. In addition, private insurance companies would have the advantage of booking a customized insurance package that gives the insured one sovereignty over his own life plan, which is not the case at present. Let me give you an example of good liberalisation. This can be found in the telecommunications sector. Before the second GSM operator starts operating in Austria, Mobilkom Austria AG, the mobile subsidiary of Post and Telekom Austria AG, announces a reduction in its tariffs of up to 50 percent. All of a sudden, prices and tariffs are reduced. Suddenly, it is possible to operate efficiently. And suddenly the consumer can also choose. The same phenomenon is evident in the liberalisation of the fixed network if telephone charges are again to be accepted by competitive conditions. I therefore firmly believe that liberalisation in the health insurance sector would also have enormous benefits for the contributors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Christian Ortner, whom I quoted at the outset, writes in his analysis about the health insurance companies that against the privatisation of health insurance there are many reasons, but not good. I'll give it to him! Nevertheless, a real discussion on this issue does not occur at all, as you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, suffocate every approach in the germ. So much are you intertwined with the functional classes in the individual social security institutions that every second newspaper comment criticizes these abuses. Even if you do not want to hear it, I will always remind you that, at the expense of the contributors, no political care company can be maintained! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I would warn you to believe that an increase in contributions, as you always ask them, is the solution to the mystery. The fact that gross labour costs are increased, that unemployment is being pushed further up, does not seem to disturb you at all, nor does it seem that increased unemployment will lead even less revenue to public health insurance. How do you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, imagine a self-sustaining model that over-proportionally burdens families, multi-child families and pensioners? – I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, both proposals are unacceptable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Which is yours?]] Neither increases in contributions nor restraints can be accepted! What we finally need is competitive thinking with social responsibility. We need managers, we don't need officers. We need flexibility, not rigidity. We need future strategies instead of endless discussions on excessive deficits and new burdens. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] In order to ensure that health insurance can survive a market opening, it must already be started today to organize a radical inspection programme. What do you think about how to judge me as a physician, I wouldn't order a patient who has a back pain because he's too thick to have a speck program. That would be a bad medical management. The other is a bad political management. This is exactly the problem with the health insurance companies! Even the old mayor Zilk speaks for a centralization and vehemently believes that a uniformization of the water head would be good for the cash register system. Unifying, Zilk said, would mean shrinking supply posts. According to Zilk, an additional advantage would be the harmonisation of treatment for all insured persons; an important step towards democratisation. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll give it to him. I like a lot of people, no matter which groups they come from. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, first step: Health insurance companies make competitive through abspect programme, by combining, by flexibilizing the range of offers according to the model liability, partial and full casho. Second step: Market opening for private Assecurants and fair competition. The fact that the cash register system is in need of reform also shows quite well on the subject of healing aid. There is also a lack of free competition. Only certain companies receive a cash register contract, and others who offer at least equivalent products and whose products also have recognised certificates of examination are not included; even if they offer their products much cheaper. We can now argue about this: Is it 1,000 percent span, or is it less? It is undisputed that the worm is in the apple! I'll give you an example now. I have to put on gloves for this example. By Wearing these gloves, I would like to tell you that a 492 per cent extra charge is to be observed in the case of these gloves when they are sold in relation to the purchase. Why do I put on gloves? I'm going to present you a body chair now. This is part of a mobile body chair. [[The speaker holds up a toilet glasses-like object.]] Not only that this mobile body chair has a purchase price of 1 040 S and a sales price of 5 040 S, i.e. 385 percent in between, was told the patient, after he wanted to request this body chair at the local health insurance fund, that he could obtain a much better and cheaper, even a free model, namely a body chair of another company, but that – look at the back! – is already needed. [[the speaker again presents a toilet glasses-like object]] Now I ask you: Do you want to sit on such a body chair? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Not on the back!]] I ask you again: Do you want to sit on such a body chair? – I think that is quite unpleasant for you, and I hope that You don't have to do it either. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I do not call on you to agree – as far as I am already a learned politician; I know very well that you will not agree, ladies and gentlemen of the government – but I appeal to you, at least briefly, to think about whether it would be in the interests of voters to give your consent even outside the coalition corset of good and important demands.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14217	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Nürnberger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14242	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first to make a personal comment so that there are no false suspicions: I myself am a member of the Vienna regional health insurance fund, not even involving meeting fees because I have voluntarily renounced them for years. [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] [[Call to the Freeman: An idealist in politics! Bravo!]] Yeah, right, it's the same. At the beginning of my remarks, let me make a few clarifications. As honourable Member Kier said, I am not the advocate of the Director-General Probst of the main association. He asked me, because he was wrongly accused here, to read a statement he signed here. I am therefore going to read what Mr Probst's Director-General asked me to do. He writes: "I am not in the ARGE Orthopedics and I am not a member there, but I am only negotiators of the social security teams." His visa as a negotiator is exclusively the federal instigation of the orthopedic mechanics, and the orthopedic innation seems to have this ARGE orthopedic as an advisory body. I would ask you to take note of Mr Probst's declaration of honour. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not a declaration of honor!]] Let me tell you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, something about the Court of Auditors' report. I agree that I have read this three times, and there is nowhere to indicate that these amounts are annual amounts. But there is a logical conclusion. Since in the column "leading service" the amounts are annual amounts – no one will assume that it is a senior employee, says: The Director-General, who deserves 1.4 million schilling in the month, is also the amounts of the senior functional amounts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] I may, because you have also quoted the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, call you the amounts of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. I would even be entitled to tell you the name and amount of the five persons concerned. But I'll just tell you the total. There is an observer, two vice-presidents, the chairman and the vice-president of the monitoring committee, and all five together – all five together! – in the month 133 220 S, the 12-time gross, and not those 320 000 S of a month, as you have said, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Leikam: Incredible! That's what a judge says!]] Let me also make some clarifications about the company Normalia, since I feel it is an act of fairness. I do not think that anyone who is not present here can be suspected of anything. I can see that the company Normalia has no preference at all by the Vienna regional health fund or anything else. In this case, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse cannot influence. If an insured person voluntaryly goes to this orthopaedic company, the company Normalia will receive exactly the price fixed, which any other bandagist in the Vienna area receives from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. In order to get a sense of the order of magnitude – after this discussion one must have the impression that it is about huge sums that are being moved back and forth – I may, legitimately, report to the House by Professor Kristen: The company Normalia is a small company with an annual turnover of 2.5 million Schilling, and of these 2.5 million Schilling, 1 million Schilling is on sales with bandagist goods. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After all, almost 50 percent!]] In the statistics of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, the company Normalia can be found in the sales with all bandagists far in the lower third. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where we have to organize a collection!]] So in this case too, the truth has now been given the honor. What you, ladies and gentlemen, have shown here, I can only call bathing. But I take the problem very seriously and will be trying to find out. If that is true, what you say is that 12 700 S including VAT has been paid for this bath sleep – according to my diction – then this is certainly a case for the prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen! I did not originally want to do this, but after my previous speaker pointed out the private insurance in her point programme, I would also like to focus on what such private insurance would look like. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] An employee, 40 years after the ASVG, has a wife and three children. He pays for this insurance protection offered by social health insurance, 1 326 pp. A private person who has no professional income, who also has a wife and three children and wants to be insured privately – on the same performance level that social health insurance offers him – pays – I have been charged by a renowned, large Austrian insurance institution – not 1 326 S per month, but 8 804 S. If, ladies and gentlemen, all Austrians could be insured privately, they would pay for more Schilling by 30 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's probably wrong, dear friend!]] And the jumping point is: Of the 30 billion schillings, only 75 percent would return to the insured in the form of a benefit, contrary to that, these are between 96 and 97 percent in social health insurance. A private insurance, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore be strongly rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also make a few comments on salaries and employees in the area of social security employees, because they are always criticized. The social security scheme has a total of 28,700 employees, and half of them – doctors, sisters, nurses – are employed in the medical service. I can assume that you, too, do not want to restrict this by the Freedom Party. The other half is active in the administration, and the average annual income is 368,000 S, according to the Court of Auditors report. If I now compare all salaries in public service companies and institutions: Staff in the field of social security shall be in the eleventh place. So one cannot say that there are the superprivileged, the top earners at home, but they have a good middle place. But let me also give a few answers, specifically concerning the Vienna regional health insurance fund. – You have made an urgent request that there has been an increase in staff of 371 persons at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse from 1988 to 1994. I can tell you that 266 of these are health care facilities, are nurses and doctors in the Ambulatorium and in the Hanusch Hospital. What is the cause of this increase? – An essential reason is the introduction of the second year of leave for female workers, and a second reason – and this is pleasing to the general public – is that we have a very young workforce, many of which have gone into Karenz. In 1994 we had 90 more people alone in health care in Karenz compared to 1988 to 1994, and of course they had to be replaced. But you only discussed the statistics until 1994. I think you can't know the last result, but I'll tell you: As far as staff development in the Vienna regional health fund from 1994 to today is concerned, we have saved 96 in the area of administrative staff, because we have had a general stop since July of the previous year. A few comments on the key figures of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. According to statistics from the main association, if the administrative burden is expressed as a percentage of the contributions, the Vienna regional health insurance fund of all nine regional health telephones with 3.51 per cent in 1994 was the lowest, and I can tell you that the administrative burden will be less than 3% this year. Another characteristic: How many insured people come to an employee? – In this respect, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse with the largest number of insured persons per employee is second, ladies and gentlemen. However, I can also tell you that the Vienna regional health insurance fund has already begun rigorous savings in 1990. We had six residences for the employees until 1990 or 1991 when we sold them. Two plots that we no longer needed were also sold – a equivalent of 150 million schilling. In 1994 we made a reduction in necessary investment by 103 million, 1995 by almost 119 million, 1996 by almost 169 million. So in the last three years, we have saved 504 million schilling. We have implemented structural measures in the area of the Hanusch Hospital. I have already pointed out that since July 1995 we have not carried out any more recruitment in the administrative sector. We've locked four unloaded ambulances in our health centers. – But all of this, unfortunately, is not enough. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you have so much deficit? How high are the supplementary pensions, colleague?]] We have already achieved, for example, in the negotiations of the medical contracts in 1995 and 1996, that we have no longer completed the inflation rate. Ladies and gentlemen! I said in the beginning, I am a member of the Vienna County Hospital. It is obvious, of course, that I also contributed to the decision to shorten the sickness allowance from 78 to 26 weeks, that I voted in favour of it. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is a scandal! Do you trust to say that?]] I can also tell you the reasons for this, and I can tell you that no one in the General Assembly of the Vienna regional health fund has easily taken this decision. But one thing you have to say to the public: It is always criticised by the members of the self-government, but the members of the self-government have more responsibility than the Director-General or the Directors because of the law, the ASVG, which we all have agreed to each other. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That with the special pensions would be interesting!]] Members of the self-government, ladies and gentlemen – we have received opinions – are liable with their private property. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why don't you cut the special pensions? 450 million schilling alone!]] § 121 para. 3 of the ASVG says clearly and clearly: the additional provision of statutes only takes account of the financial performance of the insurance institution. From this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has been put in place. Finally, just a short while on the structure of health insurance. In Austria, we have nine local health telephones, ten operating telephones. If we now assign the occupational health telephone to the local health phone, we would do a favor to the company concerned, while the regional health telephone deficit would increase because it would also have to pay for the administrative costs of the occupational health telephone. Two comparative figures: In Switzerland there are 200 health insurance funds and in Germany 1,000 health insurance companies with two or three times as high contributions as ours. It is certainly necessary to clean up the financial structure as a whole, the financial situation of the health insurance companies, but we will not let the basic social health insurance system be shaken, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14426	Next speaker is Member Dr. Rasinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14447	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin with the subject of today's urgent request. The subject is: "sick cash registers". But I don't think the cash registers are sick. This is my personal conviction, although I have a lot of criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Angefault are they!]] I don't think you should throw the child out with the bath. If you were to make international comparisons, you would insist that we can actually be very proud, because we do a lot for relatively little money. We have a performance level that is slightly below the German level, and yet the Germans have 30 percent more costs per capita. We must take note of this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It's worse elsewhere, so...!]] Another code before we enter into details: The Germans have an average cash contribution rate of 13.5 percent. We have a pure sentence of six plus zero commas with regard to care insurance for employees. That means we finance a lot with relatively little money. I think people should be told clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you talk about deficit, you have to ask yourself what is done with the money. A part, 4.4 billion schilling, goes to the administration – there must be administration – and the rest are just achievements. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Could’s be a bit more?]] You can talk about the level of benefits you want. You can set a performance level high, you can put it low. I am entirely d’accord that performance should be cost-effective. However, I am not in favour of saying that performance is to be delivered in inferior or mass quality. Especially in the medical field, I would warn about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The inferiors are sold at the highest rate!]] I also have problems with the different staff levels. It is not quite clear to me why a health insurance company has hardly increased staff in recent years, while the others are very strong – if one now calculates the special problem of Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Just need to ask the swimmer, he belongs to your group!]] In principle, I think we should be proud of the level we have in Austria. We should resist the tendencies that exist internationally, Dr. Haider. Internationally, the trend is quite clear towards two-class medicine, starting from America. I think it is worth defending: in Austria, we are trying to do something, especially for the little ones, for whom you are also working, and the poor are not going beyond some measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We already have a two-class medicine!]] I am a practical doctor, and it is annoyed that the "little ones" are currently being highly seceded; I mean the chief doctor schikanen. They are often deleted, for example in the field of physiotherapy, but also in the case of medicines. This is often not understandable to me. For example, I took care of six patients in the care of the home. It has been deleted wordlessly, without any reason. I think that's something you should put off. Finally, the doctor is not the cost-causer, but this will be passed on one too one to the patient. It's four factors we have to think about: The first is the power factor. I looked at the report of the Austrian heart surgery society yesterday and I recorded some of it. We're always talking about how expensive things are. Have you known that in the last ten years, the number of cardiac catheters has increased from 5,400 to 21,000? Did you know that the number of expansions... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Rasinger! You have already told me this here in Parliament!]] No, these are quite new numbers – from yesterday! You don't need to be afraid of me, you just hear from me the latest numbers, and if you can blame me for a single "poverty" number, then I'll try to be even better next time. I would like to give you a certain standard so that you can see that doctors also deal with economic matters. It's very interesting. I shall come to an interesting conclusion. When increasing vessels, the number of patients increased from 348 to 4 900 – i.e. by fourteen times! – in the case of heart surgery, in the case of heart vessels from 2,000 to 5,700, i.e. threefold. Ten years ago, barely any elderly people were operated on the open heart, today it is almost 30 percent. Do you know what these operations cost? I have also been concerned about these figures: A cardiac catheter costs 40,000 s, an extension of a cardiac vessel 80,000 p. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are numbers of the last speech!]] At 30 percent of the vessels one must add a precious metal stand to keep open, which costs another 30,000 p. A heart surgery costs 160 000 S and a rehabilitation stay on average 70 000 S. What does this mean in total extra costs in ten years alone, alone in a single treatment? Guess, because you're always so happy to intercede and say it's all known. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're never here, so you can't make any calls!]] – 1.5 billion schilling! And now you're guessing how much the health insurance companies in Austria spend on healing aid as a whole; that's also been criticized today, you've listed foam mattresses and lids. – 1.9 billion! For a single type of disease, namely heart disease: 1.5 billion have necessarily resulted in costs. That means you shouldn't compare apples to pears. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That means the abuses remain upright?]] But one thing I would like to say to the Minister: These are all forced costs in a repair system. But you should try to treat the high blood pressure, stimulate people, smoke less, perhaps drink a little more wine – a quarter Wine is certainly healthy for the heart vessels – to walk a bit. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Mr. Haider, you're a marathon runner, you're going to live for a very long time. For the social system, this is certainly expensive, but good for your personal health, because you have a 60 percent lower heart attack risk. You can also use cholesterol reduction, you can only use measures that do not cost big money, according to the American cardiologist society to prevent so many heart attacks. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No doctor, that's the advantage! I am a real net payer, as in the EU! I'm not burdening the system!]] And now you guess again – a quiz for non-medicalists –: How many of eight heart attacks can occur Do you theoretically avoid it? Guess! – In the opinion of cardiologists in America, you can avoid seven of eight heart attacks! That's the job. Unfortunately, in our country we have a repair system and not a precautionary system. To change this is the essential point that should be a priority in today's debate, and not whether anyone is lying on all mattresses. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We always talk about progress – progress costs something. For example, if you have the wrong to have an AIDS disease in your relationship: Only the treatment of a severe fungal disease, aspergillus pneumonia, is costed, so I was told by experts, up to 200 000 p. It is an ethical question whether you refuse it to the patient or not. I haven't experienced a single patient in my life, nor any family who said: No, we don't, it's too expensive! I've never heard that before. I've always heard: Where's the best doctor, where's the best care? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No!]] Another example, because we are already at No-na! examples – and everything is done with numbers; I would like to argue with numbers: There are 15,000 hip operations in Austria in the year, which are people who have fallen by. They used to be considered invalid, came to the nursing home, which resulted in high costs. A single artificial hip – the material alone! – costs 15 000 S. This is the latest number – presented by the Stacher City Council – of people who were an average of 80 years old. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It costs the bath sleep already 12 000 s in social insurance!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Haider, I think it's not that funny in reality. This is very serious, because it is about the future of patients. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's why we're working on the subject!]] Of an average of 1,000 chicken patients who had been rehabilitated, 86 percent of the average 80-year-old women who had received hips – almost everyone in the nursing home had to be released, only 1.6 percent had to go to the nursing home. You see what I wanted to say with these three examples. Progress in medicine threatens to overshadow us worldwide. This is the mega question that will concern us, and not whether a mattress costs 100 S or 200 S more. – I am told by the health insurance fund that some examples do not agree. I am also for sparingness, but the examples must be really hie- and solid. Secondly, The old-age slave will cause us great problems. Every five years, the risk of stroke for people over 60 years of age increases, with the disease of Altzheimer as well as with Parkinson's disease. Remember, however, that every ten years we get three years older. That means we're automatically running into a progress trap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr. Haider, please be careful! You can learn a lot from me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We don't need to watch because three months ago we heard everything from your mouth! I've noticed all of this!]] No, unfortunately, you slept and didn't get anything. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is a follow-up hour that I am unfortunately going to have to give today, a health policy follow-up hour. Because if you don't understand the basics, the basics, you can't solve the whole problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You could be a senior teacher!]] If you are a patient, you want maximum accuracy, and today this accuracy requires the use of more accurate devices. This alone costs money: Computer tomography, core spin tomography; often a second doctor must be taken to verify the diagnosis. New example: There is a huge scandal in Germany. Because of the diagnosis of breast cancer, women were mistakenly removed because the diagnosis of the pathologist did not vote. It is now demanded that each knot greater than 2 centimetres should be looked at by a second pathologist. – If I were a woman, I would of course be very happy if this was done with the utmost accuracy, but that means additional costs. Fourth point – with this I come to the current health debate in Austria –: We have at least tried a hospital reform, which is really a megading. If you want to keep people away from the hospitals by closing hospitals or taking back benefits there, you have to offer out-of-the-box services – otherwise the patient would have to dissolve into air. And if you make German or Swiss calculations, you can see: Even without hospital reform, there is an increase in patient contacts in Germany and Switzerland in the ordinations of 25 percent. This means that patients do not go to the doctor to warm themselves or to spend time somewhere, as it is often claimed, but the people have complaints and want to be taken seriously. I come to the conclusion. Why are we talking about the ÖVP? – We want to ensure the level of performance, we want what the citizen wants: that is, people don’t go ahead and determine what level they should be created. We want a high level. We want to afford a good system, and we want to see the health system with the eyes of the sick and the disabled. We always see it with the eyes of the healthy, but the sick and the disabled have a completely different attitude. I think we should be careful not to leave the eighth place of the countries of the Western world, rather to go up, but at least not to go down. In addition to this, it is necessary, first of all, to make a commitment to reforms – and that has already been said today – thirdly to a commitment that one should also be at the expense – but in the case of additional pay costs worldwide, there will no longer be much to do in the field of health care, and fourthly, the most important of all, we must move away from a repair system to a precautionary system.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14761	The next item is Mrs Haidlmayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14783	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of what Mr Pumberger mentioned in his speech today, I myself have unwelcomely experienced several times. And that's why it's no wonder to me how the health insurance companies now stand. Their financial disaster they attribute to themselves. I keep talking about the concerns of people with disabilities, because it concerns myself; I know what I am talking about. What is listed there by the health insurance companies at the expense of people with disabilities, at the expense of sick people, that is partly immense, and I had to get through myself several times. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Freemans, as well as with the applause of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] I would like to tell you an example of the health insurance system's really highest willingness. It has been over ten years, but the conditions are still the same today. 15 years ago, I had the problem of suddenly hearing nothing on an ear. I was forced to go to the hospital. As a diagnosis one could not see much, but it was definitely for the first time, because that could not harm, ordered an operation. So I've been operating on the ear. After a year I was operated again, a year later again and then another fourth time. The fourth time I was told: It's not operating anymore, we just closed up again, the ear's broken, you can forget that. Hopefully you can get the second ear. – With this diagnosis I was sent home. Three years later, the second ear suddenly began to stop doing its services. There I was panicked because I was afraid that I could not hear anything on the second ear after four operations. Since I was once again recommended to let the ear operate, but I had the total panic in front of each further operation, I became an initiative myself and I thought about what I could actually do to prevent such surgery. So I drove from one hearing aid acoustic to another, tried everything on the market, and looked for a device with which I could hear. At the third hearing aid acoustic, I found a hearing aid that I enjoyed and with which I suddenly heard. With this I went to the hospital in Vienna and said: I've found a hearing aid I can hear from now on. Please tell me the hearing aid so I don't have to be operated. The hearing aid is better for me, and it also makes me less stressed. After months of going back and forth and forth, I managed to get the hearing aid approved. This cost 19 000 s, and I should have paid it myself at first. I don't know what surgery would have cost. Of course, I refused to pay for my hearing aid myself, with the following argument: If I don't have a hearing aid, I can't work. In three months by paying the health insurance the hearing aid had amortized. I was able to keep working. – I have thus ensured the funding of the hearing aid, with the success of hearing well for ten years and having caused an effort in the ten years towards the local health insurance fund of 19 000 S. If I had allowed myself to be operated on another four times, I would probably need a sign interpretation here today, and I can't estimate where the costs would have been shattered. It would certainly not have stayed at 19 000 S. I have therefore mentioned this example because I have had the experience that the first possibility is immediately threatened with surgery when a disease occurs – at least in the disability area, as I can well estimate it. Whether this brings something or not, what alternative there is or if there is none, nothing is said about it. It's important to operate. I believe that even in this area – this experience has also made many of my disabled friends – one could have saved the disabled people a lot of anxiety, pain and suffering, that the health insurance companies might have saved themselves a lot of financial expenses if it was not always the first to "operate". But after the operation, there's usually still a spa stay. It is in many cases so that someone who has been operated – I speak again of the disabled – is sent to a rehab centre, where you can't start anything with him, where you are not employed for the disabled. That's what happened to me. I was sent with osteopsathyrose to a rehab center for the treatment of the rheumatic circle of forms, with the result that I sat there for three weeks, collapsed twice with loud heat, because I do not hold out what people need who have rheumatic complaints – and after these three weeks I drove home again. I never asked what it cost. But at least it has had a positive effect on the health insurance companies: I'm sure I'll never ask for a cure again. So that's how it worked. I am honestly healed of spas and hospitals in far-reaching areas. Whoever is on a cure usually gets some help afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Feurstein must distract the minister again! Let the Minister listen.]] And which one gets depends on which bandagists or which company the Rehab Centre has a contract with. For example, in the White Court in Klosterneuburg, people with cross-sectional links are offered a very specific brand of wheelchairs. In Bad Häring it is a completely different brand, and in the Rehab-Zentrum Tobelbad in Styria there is another brand again. I once asked why. I have always assumed that every person concerned should be provided with orthopaedic and other reliefs in accordance with the best conditions. – I’ve been taught a better person. It is not about what is best supplied, but about which quota the rehab centre must lose to the dealer anyway. I heard phone calls myself when I was waiting in the repair workshop for my wheelchair where it was called: No, we have to sell the sowieso brand to the Berger, because we have to get 20 out of it this year. – That’s the reality! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Very good, Mrs. Colleague, very good!]] That the wheelchair of XY may never be adapted to the disability of the individual, I think, already a layman. If anyone today assumes that a wheelchair is the only function of moving on four wheels, this is a mistake. For one thing is clear, Minister of Social Affairs: A falsely prescribed aid or a wrongly prescribed remedy reduces or stabilizes no disability, but causes additional disabilities. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] I think that this area should be slowly considered how it can be done. There's no need for any experts to do this. Ask us people affected and let us advise other affected people in the rehab centres, in the hospitals. We know what we need. We know what we're doing. We know what's going on and what's not. And please do not send us any experts who are actually not experts at the Rehab Centre or the Hospital, but simply messengers of any orthopedic centers or companies. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The cashiers!]] [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] The provision of aid is really an issue that must not be overlooked. For example, if I need a new battery for my electric wheelchair today, I have to write a side-long explanation of why I need this battery – I could possibly put a flower vase in the living room and not install it in the wheelchair. So I'm writing a page-long explanation. This is not difficult for me, and cynicism can solve all of this. And then I'll get that approved under some circumstances, with the note: This is a voluntary service of your social security institution, but there is no legal claim. – It always says that – whether I need a remedy or a cure that costs 800 S, or one that costs 80 000 S. This sentence is always delivered to me, probably to express: You know what we're doing for you, but don't ask too much of us. So I know what the local health insurance fund is doing for me. But the local health insurance fund has never thought about what I'm doing for her. Because I could say without a doubt: Okay, I don't want a battery for my e-rolli. But I can't work for that. What do you think? Sometimes I have the impression that this would be preferable to the local health phone. It would be preferable for them to have people at home in their homes, in stationary facilities, lost their lives instead of providing them with adequate supplies so that they can live independently and as part of society again. But this form of rehabilitation, the reintegration into society with all the conditions that it needs – and that is, aid, aid – is not really what the health insurance fund is thinking about. For old people who need diapers because of incontinence, there is a quota per quarter. If someone is wrong that he does not deal with his diaper quota for any reason, then he must write a statement of reasons. The health insurance company assumes that the diapers are so beautiful that perhaps at home the walls are taped with them. - But I think it's more of a shock. We must get away from this pressure that we must be grateful for everything we get from the health insurance fund. We provide benefits, enormous benefits in the form of deposits, in the form of work, in the form of life in society even without work. I do not want to thank you constantly for something that is essential to me in order to be able to live as I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14867	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14888	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mrs Haidlmayr has described to us the problem of relief from the point of view of a disabled person in a form which was very impressive for everyone here in Parliament who has half-humanity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Red and Black have no interest at all!]] She has told us what experiences one has day after day as a disabled person with healing aids, with spas, with experts, with experts, with doctors and with the environment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not easy for a person to have to cope with a disability at the time, to stand his husband at the workplace – even if he is a woman – and also to let the horrors of bureaucracy fall. It is your honor, Mr Federal Minister – you have seen it on your face – that you have given it to your mind. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An exception to the SPÖ!]] But I hope, Minister of State, that you can also think of what we have presented to you in today's debate. ==References== The catalogue is to enter into force on July 1996, and some things, Minister of State, are wrong. At the expense of sick people, of people who are not experts, business is done with social security, with the contributors, with the self-maintainers who, in my opinion, cannot be justified in any way. Col. Rasinger gave us a basic overview of his high-tech medical ideas and calculated on the basis of the cardiac catheter how preventive medicine may in some cases be profitable – in the opinion of American specialists. Mr Rasinger! They know very well that in the field of prevention medicine there are also other calculations due to the higher age pyramid: namely, that the benefits appear later, the period for payment is protruded, the total cost of performance increases, and the savings effects are not possible in the form of euphoric views as basic. – But this is a chapter that we will discuss another time. I had to undergo post-operation surgery in 1991 after an accident I had had in 1983, which brought me to the hospital for a year, to the wheelchair for half a year, one year to the crutches, six months to the intensive care station, and I am therefore sensitive. I am sensitive when, in these areas, one makes hearings with people through self-retaining and then delivered products that are not even appropriate. I took with me three things that I had to deal with every day at that time, because I no longer had the happiness of going with my two legs. I chose these. [[The speaker shows a number of measures]] You will see the corresponding inscriptions at all: Shopping price 460 S, here the sale price 1 361 S, raw storage 196 percent, no check mark. No test marks! Nevertheless, it is honoured. It is of a fragility that, when you put it together, you have to ask yourself how long it will last when it will collapse, how it should work at all. We have for all these products that stand here, the requirements, the corresponding remunerations, and the patients have paid the retention. These are inconsistencies that belong to me. That is why, Minister of State, I really appeal to you: You'll be up to 1. It's working on July! Look Take a look at this area and see how the new list of this ARGE has come about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The list setting up of these ARGE orthopedics is highly questionable to me, and I dare to doubt that what Mr Kier has tried here as an official defender will also be possible in the appropriate form. For if you imagine that this was a contracting partner of the main association, who published a letter to all interested parties, who had been signed by the vice-president of the main association, Probst, which gave the impression that it was the official list to which all these products are included, and which also made it clear that at the end of this review period from 1994 to July this year only more of those products listed in this list can be referred to by the people by means of health certificates, these four companies have concluded a monopoly that they are already running out of business today by handing products without any mark at all prices to the patients. I know that this is a serious accusation, Mr Kier, and I have therefore considered the documents very carefully: the individual invoices, the individual receipts, the individual price lists and the individual business cases. There can be no coincidence that those who want to arrange the monopoly for tomorrow are already today those who in several cases prove themselves to be black sheep on the market. These are transactions, Mr Kier, which are not portable for me, which are immoral, which belong to decommissioned ones. Federal Minister! I therefore urge you to: Be active! In these areas, explore up to this ominous ARGE orthopaedic, and forget about it. You do not ask that this ARGE Orthopedics is not only registered as an association, but is also associated in the company's book with a certain Mr. Radl and his company Lambert in Salzburg and his Styrian company. There is therefore an ARGE here that works closely with four companies, which fix an exclusive right of about 80 percent of the A products – the remaining products will then be delivered to the other companies – and in the non-sector. The price differences have already been clearly shown. At the lowest price levels, they amount to 62 percent extra charge on A products and 110 percent extra charge on B products. And the disadvantage: The A-Products are fully accountable with the Landeskrankenkasse, the B-Products have to be pre-financed and are then re-funded in the appropriate form. Therefore, the people who are socially weaker who have to turn around every schilling if they are ill, if they are disabled, those who are twice affected by this system, because they do not have the money at all, then, if the 256 S self retention is exceeded and in the higher categories are 10 percent self-retainable, they have to browse these thousands of shilling to get the corresponding help, to be able to help themselves if they are ill and need this help. I therefore believe, Minister of the State, that you should be working again as soon as possible and that you should not take everything that has been communicated to you by your supervisory authorities as a bearer coin. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You may need to instruct others from your area to take a look at your first informants. Maybe you'll create it. You are something like an internal revision that checks those who gave you this initial information and learns how they have come to provide you with this information that you have given us in the reply to the request. Don't forget what Mr Stadler told you about the ARGE Orthopedics. There is the company Radl, Mr Ivanic, Mrs Ivanic, the company Gassinger, the company Lambert, there are the corresponding support from Mr Kristen. Don't forget - I say it again - that anyone who has applied for a product in this ARGE had to pay between 3 000 S and 5 000 S. Where have all the hundreds of products included in the catalogue been spent? Where did they stay? Where's the evidence? What happened to these funds? Thirdly, How is it possible for cheap products from Taiwan and other East Asian countries to show up on the market today and to turn on patients – otherwise I can't say that – even though they have a valid cash agreement, a requirement certificate and, in my view, also the right to obtain products with at least the corresponding test certificates? Federal Minister! They need action. We'll be You will then assess how you meet this need for action and what you do from this situation – in the interests of patients and also in the interest of cost-truth. Another thing: I would like to say clearly and clearly that I am not concerned with all the orthopaedic technicians, bandagists, hearing equipment technicians and others whose products are on the market, but here, in my opinion, a small group of - from my point of view - four companies have secured a market monopoly that will have an impact on the disadvantage of the other 150 or 160 companies that are still on the market and have cash registers. For I can tell you that all these products must, of course, also be used for smaller storage. The products, which will now become no products, will no longer be sold in the appropriate form, and the storage costs are partly horrendous in relation to the sales. I would also like to point out that the 150 small orthopaedics and bandagists in Austria are those who train as the only apprentices and thus ensure that in Austria we still have professionals in these professions in order to be available to the people who are disabled by accidents or by diseases and to care for them in the appropriate form. I believe, Mr Federal Minister, that this urgent question has been raised at the right time before the entry into force, it has come at a time when you can still intervene where you can still operate with your revision supervision. Ask She also asked Mr Probst if he did not notice that the negotiations with the Chamber of Commerce did not include those elected in the Chamber of Commerce in order to negotiate these tariffs in the appropriate form, but only a small, exclusive group, which then led these collective bargainings without those elected by the Chamber of Commerce, for itself and not for the entire professional group and not for the "small ones" in the entire professional group. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I think these are the most important arguments on this orthopaedic list. Federal Minister! I guarantee you: I have for those products that I have presented today – you can see them from your place here – the corresponding price lists that come from 1994 to 1996. Those coming from years other than 1996 are also included because, according to telephone questions, they are still the valid lists for subcontractors in neighbouring countries today, in order to say this clearly and clearly and to resolve the doubts. I do not think it would be appropriate, Mr Federal Minister, but I think it is a good thing to be active in this area. Federal Minister! I think you as a trade union and social democrat should be called for three times, because social democracy in this country is already on the brink of socialism. Make sure that there is no downwards in the field of the disabled too!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14974	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Pumberger has recently entrusted his recipe to a daily newspaper published in Austria as to how to deal with healing aids: Rollchairs, he said to "everything daily", could be imported in good quality at the price of 3 000 S per piece from Asia. Ladies and gentlemen! You only need to ask Mrs. Haidlmayr what she thinks of wheelchairs by 3,000 s per piece. It is either unsuspecting or cynical to think that with such a 3,000 schilling frame imported from Asia, it is possible to meet the needs of the disabled to which they are entitled by law. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Let's ask her once! You haven't asked her yet!]] You will certainly not have us as an ally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What do you have against Asian chairs?]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, asked the Minister of Social Affairs to follow all the accusations made by you. This is not necessary, because I insist once again with all the emphasis: Not only did my previous speaker, Rudolf Nürnberger, know clearly and clearly that all that was shown here is fully and on a serious basis, but before him the Social Minister has already done so, saying that we will follow every single accusation. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would be absurd and absurd to make the Minister of Social Affairs responsible for every single contractual position. He is not responsible for this, he is not responsible for it. This must also be made clear with all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But one thing you must already allow me to find out here, because with that I have my problems: In two cases you have been able to prove, in the context of this debate, that you have not taken it so precisely with the truth, namely, if you claim that a Mr. Dr. Ivanic would play an important, mystical role within the framework of this ARGE Orthopedicy, while a telephone call from Mr. Kier with the accused has personally shown that it is quite different, on the other hand, if you say out here, Mr. Dr. Probst, Deputy Director of the main association of social security companies, would have been involved in this matter and you must be pleased by him that he says in the context of a written declaration of honour: [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Be careful! Don't use your immunity from the speaker's mouth!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look into the company book, then you have it in writing!]] I don't have anything to do with that. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We have this in writing!]] – In two cases, you have already been made quite obvious by the untruth. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't use your immunity!]] Since you're so upset, Mr. Harald Ofner: Check with your Tyrolean colleagues who know who Peter Mayr was in the history of Tyrol! That was the hero of love of truth. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: With an air I don't want to save my life, he said!]] You can tell some of those who went out here, but they're not related to Peter Mayr. I would also like to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You haven't thought of anything since then!]] They have raised allegations and accusations here, but the Social Minister has acted again in recent weeks. He has acted in many, many rounds of negotiations with the representatives of the pharmacy, with the pharmaceutical industry, with the representatives of the doctor's chamber, that he has saved 1.6 billion schilling in this area. And in order to give the truth the honor, it must be noted that last year, in discussions with the Chamber of Pharmacovigilance, the Minister of the Social Affairs has already reached that it has taken back a lot of its wholesalers. So there has already been a lot of happening here, and that is why I find it so negligent – up to the rigour – when, in connection with the health insurance companies, the words "concurrence" and "pile" are deliberately taken into the mouth. That's unheard of! The health insurance companies have a volume of 118 billion schilling. You have problems and a false amount of 3.6 billion schilling a year. It is serious that we do not beautify anyone, that is not being bagatelized, and there are also ongoing efforts to bring in this misappropriation. But with a total volume of 118 billion schilling in the absence of 3.6 billion schilling talking of bankruptcy maturity, that is unheard of, that is the targeted attempt to approach and make bad this institution. There you will find in us bitter opponents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr. Colleague! Overindebtedness means bankruptcy!]] In this debate, too, these proposals are usually made by "good" politicians, as in the field of vehicle liability insurance, everyone should have the opportunity to choose their own insurance. First of all, it is remarkable that one wants to deal with psychological and chronically ill as with consumables. It's not my way of thinking, but it's not easy for everyone to think that way. I know, at first glance, that sounds like a little more freedom – more freedom of contract, more opportunities for the insured, more choice for the consumer – but in a closer look it is a very deceptive freedom that one wants to grant here, because in the system of competition between the cash registers solidarity – it is the carrying principle of health insurance – can be all too easily achieved. Look For example, how the so-called "bad risks" are dealt with in Switzerland, how one there – which proves very serious studies – with a certain degree of unfrozenness, and also through bureaucratic shocks occasionally suggests the so-called "bad risks" to look for another insurance. In the process of forcing competition, it is always assumed that more competition would result in these insurances becoming cheaper. Take a look at the administrative burden of social health insurance, and look at the administrative burden of private health insurance! You have to note that there is a huge difference here, a huge advantage in favour of social health insurance. Economic reasons can therefore never be an argument for freedom of choice between health insurance companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's quite clear: If a health insurance scheme, such as a private insurance company, is forced to carry out client fishing and customer advertising, it will have to invest considerable funds. Marketing, advertising, clientele – all this costs a lot of money. Please also read the articles from Germany, Switzerland, where the insured will be flooded with all kinds of advertising looters. 12 year olds are funded belly dance courses to keep the parents of these children at mood and at the barge; German health insurance companies invest millions in dress advertising at football clubs. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this can't make sense, all of that can't be achievable. I believe and I claim – and I can prove it as well – that: We have done well with our previous system of social health insurance, and it would be absurd to replace something good with something worse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Social Affairs has also told you several times: They talk about it again and again and again and again and again about the monotony that these health insurances must be combined. Hausemann, a renowned Swiss business consultancy company – a truly credible and safe address – has noted: There's nothing to win here. A sentence that this Hausemann study contains, so to speak, as a resumé should all of us write to the main book, especially you as a constant critic of these social health insurances: The Austrians can be quite proud of their health insurance system. – These sober oaths have written in summary. – We are proud of our system!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15180	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15208	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Guggenberger! So, of course, it was not possible for me to see that the Minister for Social Affairs is going to look at our criticisms, but quite the contrary. I was initially indignant at the fact that he did not make any institutions at all to take our criticism seriously. And then we followed Mrs Reitsamer, who even said that we want to ruin the health insurance companies – only because we are doing quite legitimate criticism here. I think that was just a sicker process. You and Mr Nürnberger were willing to think about it once, but, as I said, the Minister of Social Affairs first walled, and under the motto "This bad thing doesn't happen to us" he has actually only pursued a policy of reluctance. I am very glad that you have agreed to follow all our criticisms and hope that you will also present yourself to the Minister for Social Affairs on this matter. I think that it is really bad what happens to these reliefs. We have already presented a lot of examples today, and I am still doing so now on the basis of this wheelchair. We must know that the health insurance companies with some bandagists have concluded a coalition which is very serious. In Vienna these are the big bandagists such as Matzka, Bstand and Frühwald. These are the main suppliers, and they can fix any price for the relief. There is no counter-offer, nothing is checked at all, but the wheelchair is bought as it is offered by the company. You have to know: Such a wheelchair has a purchase price of about 3 500 s, and because it is a simple version – which is why it is so cheap – it is also offered to health insurance companies by 13 000 s. That is to say, the span ranges from 3 500 S to 13 000 S. Mr. Guggenberger! Because you criticise the proposals made by Mr Pumberger, one should import these wheelchairs from Taiwan, practice: That's what happens, please. Do you know what's really happening? The wheelchairs come from Taiwan or Spain, are bought there by 2 000, 3 000 s, in Germany they get from any dealer a pickerl – I can even give you the name of this dealer – and if it is a bit more quality wheelchair, it is offered to the health insurance companies around 25 000 or 30 000 S. That's how it's God. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. Guggenberger) scandalous! You don't touch that! You're a trade unionist! Take care of it!]] It is hard to believe – I see you looking skeptically. But please inform yourself once, then you will see that it is all true what we have said. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Guggenberger and also Mr Sozialminister – you are chatting now, but listen to it! –: It's shocking what's going on there. These companies, Matzka, Bstand, Frühwald and so on, don't let anyone else into business. And there's connections with the service departments of the health insurance companies. The officials there have an interest, which may be on a private basis somewhere, that no other company is coming in. Anyone else who tries to sell something, too, is said: No, we have a contract with the company Bstand, with early forest or Matzka. And this contract, which is unnecessary, is based on the fact that these companies also make the service and the adaptation. That's what everyone else is doing. And as we have heard from Mrs Haidlmayr today, these companies with which there are contracts are not even ready to make a journal service so that they can also be repaired on Saturday or Sunday. You have to go to the hospital if you are a very difficult case. That's what it really looks like. The Rehabilitationsanstalt Weißer Hof, already mentioned today, belongs to the AUVA, and it has a contract with the company Matzka. There are simply no other wheelchairs. There the patient is told he needs a wheelchair. He cannot say what he wants, because AUVA has already determined that the contract will be awarded to the company Bstand. No, pardon, White Court is Matzka; they are more or less "married" with the company Matzka, no one else comes in. An Austrian manufacturer – not a dealer, but a manufacturer – has told me that he has been complaining of his suffering for a long time today – I have called him again – he has had a case for which he has offered the supply of a wheelchair around 12 000 S. He did not get the order, but the supply was done at another company, around 30 000 S! That's what the health insurance fund paid for. On the one hand, the health insurance fund fights for groschen, and on the other hand, the money is really lightly thrown out. On the other hand, our criticism is directed, and I think you should take this seriously. We do not want the health insurance companies to be ruined, but we want them to be really cost-conscious. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In another case, the Austrian manufacturer also informed me. This was about the supply of a grandchild with a wheelchair and so on. He offered the supply at 23 000 p. The order then got the company Gassinger at 90 000 S. We've heard today, the company owner is Innungsmeister deputy. About 90,000 S! That's what the health insurance fund paid for. That's all a reason to follow these orders. Minister! I can provide you with the names of these supplies, which have been made at an overpriced price, where not the cheap, cheap and also adequate factory has been taken, but where it is essential that another producer be pressed in. Then I'd like to You have already asked, Minister: How do you explain that the certificates are already stamped by the health insurance institution for the name of the company to which the authorised person is to address, with the approval mark from the service department? I've got a case where it's about a room toilet. This has been submitted to the Vienna regional health fund, the chief doctor has examined the regulation, the service department has stamped that the product must be delivered to the company Matzka. How do you explain that? There is no counter-offering, but it is told the patient that he has to get it from the company Matzka. Something's wrong. Minister! It's high time you went after this. In fact, there is a real lack of control, because there is no counter-offering. If control were to exist, you could save a lot of money. I urge you, within the framework of your supervisory duty, to take up this control activity and to take responsibility for those in the service department who send people only to "their" companies that are preferred by them for any reason. Ladies and gentlemen! The senior officials of the health insurance companies are all not a secret. Only now did an Austrian manufacturer tell me that he was a member of the Director-General of the Lower Austrian Regional Health Fund a few months ago and told him what was happening in the prescription and regulation of the healing aid. And the Director-General was completely out of his mind and promised him that he would follow the case. Months have gone into the country – nothing has happened! The Austrian manufacturer, who could offer cheap products, who also takes care of the adaptation, is still driven out of the market, because the large suppliers who are inside the business continue to have their foot in the door. So that's certainly something that belongs to you! And I think you should take it seriously and not just as oppositional criticism that is being halted because you want to fall into trouble. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is happening here is not a fair competition, there is no transparency at all, and that is not a cost-conscious process. Minister! I really expect you to make sure that something changes. We would also like to ask you, after you have examined how this award takes place, to present a report to us in Parliament. That is why I would also like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you could quite agree with the government parties. This is something very serious and very essential. One more thing, Minister: Today, the talk has been about how high the prices for shoes are. And I would also like to show you an example – –: [[the speaker shows a pair of orthopaedic shoes]] These shoes, they're a little latent because they're just so expensive – do you know what they cost? 19 000 s costs this pair of shoes! And that five or six years ago. Now they are probably already costing 20 percent more. And the restraint for the person concerned is 4,000 p. It's really overcrowded! [[Abg. May. Stadler: scandalous!]] There is also no cost review. This is a case similar to that of these ominous sleepers that we have already heard of. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! You said today, you're taking your order seriously. I ask you once again, I appeal to you, I ask you to take your order to check the social security institutions seriously and, above all, to make sure that this displeasure, which is taking place in the field of healing until now without any problems, will change.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15316	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15341	Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously you may not have been in the Chamber for a short time, in my second speech after the honourable Member Mag. [[Abg. Grabner: short? She wasn't there for a long time!]] Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She was there!]] Then maybe she didn't listen. For in this second word I have found two things: Firstly, that Dr Probst, the Deputy Director-General, is contrary to the claims made by honourable Members. Stadler is by no means a member of the Orthopedics working group. – That was the first finding. The second finding was that, some time ago, and this is being carried out, I made it possible to reduce costs in all areas in the negotiations with all the contracting parties. At the same time, I have found that I really do not know and can verify all the positions of the Treaty itself, but that I will deal with all these shortcomings that are claimed here and that I will, of course, carry out this review, which you are now asking for. I therefore see no obstacle at all to the fact that all the political groups agree with what I myself want and have announced, namely that I will review the shortcomings that have been claimed here. I have already announced this and therefore I do not understand that you have now declared that you have not heard this announcement. That is why I have repeated it for you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15392	Member Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15413	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It honors the Federal Minister that he is affected by the things he has heard today, and that it seems to him to be a real concern to give a comprehensive explanation. I believe that this is also necessary, because the dimension of the incidents should be taken into account: This is about 17 billion schilling for cures and cures. And if you know that the health insurance companies currently have a hole of 3.6 billion schilling, then already a savings in trading margins of 20% of these 17 billion shillings mean that the problem is solved. And that's why we're showing this and making it clear to you, because the way you're trying to go once again is to increase contributions, to shorten benefits is the wrong one. Rather, it is necessary to make order in this dark area of the business makers who want to enrich themselves on the back of the insured and the contributors! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can't spare you this, Minister of State: You are apparently poorly informed in your department, and you will be led behind the light! I believe that you are saying, out of complete conviction, that Mr Probst has nothing to do with this. But please, there are letters that Mr Probst has signed: "Main Association of Social Insurance Companies, Director-General Dr. Try it." This letter was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. October 1995, with the letterhead of the ARGE Orthopedics, with the signature of the Dr. Ivanic, who is the head of this ARGE Orthopedics, and with the drawing of the Federal Innction Master of Optics, Bandagists, Orthopedicians and hearing aid acoustics, the Managing Director of Dkfm. Dr. Drimal. So the red-black unit is present. That's signed. Furthermore, Mr. Federal Minister, there is a letter from Mr Ivanic, ARGE Orthopedice, in which he expressly points out: We – the ARGE Orthopedics – produce an article catalogue in agreement with the main association of the social insurance companies of Austria and the Austrian Federal Inn of the Optics and Orthopedics technicians. This catalogue – written by Mr Ivanic – will replace the existing lists throughout Austria and will serve as a working document for social insurance in the billing of cash benefits. You can't say: I don't know anything about such serious things as this! You may not know that a Commission has now been set up to assess this catalogue. In this Commission, which is also mentioned in the letter, Mr Probst is also represented, Mr Kristen is also represented, Mr Johann Radl is also represented. And the special thing is that all these are people who, in turn, have companies and do business with the main association and business with the sick people. And Mr. Radl again has a company in which Mr. Ivanic is involved. I can give you the extract of the company book. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Son-in-law!]] That's Mr. Radl's son-in-law! And for a long time, Mr. Radl is no longer a member of the Bundesinnungsmeister, but he, together with the main association and the federal innung, conducts the negotiations to create this project. This catalogue is now created. The experts working with the help of the main association are Mr. Probst – which you dispute, but which is documentaryly verifiable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is acting!]] The worst thing, I have to tell you now, is that this is also about money. Mr Ivanic wrote a letter to all producers on behalf of the ARGE Orthopedics: You have the opportunity to receive the tender documents for the creation of this catalogue with a deposit of 3 000 S on the account of the ARGE Orthopedics – interestingly, this account is the private account at the Grazer Hypobank, based on Dr. Gerd Ivanic ARGE Orthopedics. And then, if you have paid 3 000 S, you will have to pay as a company for the first ten submitted products a fee of 5 000 S, for the next 10 products 4000 S and for all other products 3 000 S. Because no one knows what happened to the money, Mr. Federal Minister, it did a few days ago, on 23. In May 1996, a crisis meeting was held in which: What happened to the money? Because for thousands of products that have been notified, which the companies wanted to have accommodated, millions have been paid, and Mr Ivanic has managed the money. Now, the members of the federal government concerned – I have written this here – have put on record: Since no satisfactory answer could be given to the question of disclosure of the ARGE Orthopedics' business performance at the Bundesinnungsgesetzung, we now ask in writing for the presentation of the current flows of money or for notification of the legal personality of the ARGE Orthopedics. Federal Minister! That's something! This is about millions who are not inconspicuous. There companies have to pay money like the Mafia, they have to pay protection money in order to be there and be able to offer it with the help of the main association. That's no difference to mafia. They always dispute that they belong to the Mafia. But the business practice that is being carried out here is mafios. Under the umbrella of the main association whose supervisory body you are, and with Mr Probst's signature, an attempt is made to create a closed market on which certain companies are preferably treated. I'll tell you why. – If you look at the catalogue, you see that there are so-called yes and no companies in it. The Yes companies are those whose owners also sit in the Assessment Commission. These evaluate their products with yes, and if they are rated with yes, then you can get this product without cash by means of a regulation from the health insurance fund. If you want to have a no product, then you have to pay cash and have to go to the health insurance fund effortlessly, which will then pay you some of these costs. - That's the big deal. Federal Minister! If you say here that you have not known anything about this, you are also very problematic as a minister. It is not feasible that you can simply make such a huge story, in which it is about billions of huge shops, about the creation of a closed area, and see how, on the one hand, the contributions are to be increased, but on the other hand, millions and millions of millions are collected on the back of the hard-working contributors in Austria. – That’s what we need to write to you in the main book. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, I ask you, therefore, I really ask you: Scroll up this story! I know you're an honest man. They are uncomfortable, and I have already noticed today that the SPÖ Group has tried to swipe off with some hectic tactics, but now it is said that something has to be lazy. – There is a lot of lazyness, and we also have the bills for all that we have put up here. It is really interesting to see that, for example, a mattress is calculated in a very adventurous way, as it was first presented. A decubitus mattress, which must be purchased for heavy-stopped cases, for bedridden who are wounded if they are not properly stored, has a yield price of 800 S. And if you look at the cost estimates of the bills we have, you see that the amounts go up to 9 900 s. I have the billing case here, where the checkout according to order of 11. June 1996, i.e. the latest dates, 4 950 S for a product not equipped with a test mark – without VAT – has to be shot, although at best 800 S is worth buying this product. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Without VAT!]] There on the back of the decent people apparently do a handful of very dubious personalities huge shops. I can only say: Incenses You're finally out of this augia stable, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have shown you the examples. We have shown you the examples of cures. We have shown you the examples of the forearm support joints where a 700 to 800 percent trading margin is stored. Where's that, please? Where does that really exist? We have also shown you other examples. For example, a hearing impaired person writes to me – which has now caused some discussions in Austria – that: I now have a hearing aid – invoiced by the company Neuroth – with the help of the health insurance company. The invoice number 76099 is the same. The amount of the invoice for the hearing aid in Austria – funded by the health insurance fund – is 35 619 p. He also writes: I was in Hungary in the meantime and had forgotten my spare battery for the hearing aid. In Austria, batteries – 1.4 volts of button batteries – cost for hearing aids in the four pack 140 p. In Hungary I got the same batteries at the price of 6.30 p. 6.30 p.! But such a battery lasts a maximum of 14 days. That is to say, the cash register, together with the person who is hearing it, has to be very deep in the pocket in order to finance it. Then he looked at the hearing aids in Hungary on this occasion. He writes: I have found two factories with test marks, one from Denmark at the price of 3 100 S and one from Japan at the price of 2 250 S. In my opinion, the two products are more modern, because small and better in comfort, and much cheaper. In Austria it costs 35 600 S, and a better, more modern device with test marks costs elsewhere 3 100 S or 2 250 S. Mr. Federal Minister! There is a real need for action to eliminate the cynicism which appears to be given in the administrative bureaucracy of this social security. Here the money is thrown out because companies selected make huge profits in a protected area. And at the same time, write For example, the Stomakrank letters that the health insurance can no longer be paid. Stomach diseases are, as you know, people who have an artificial outcome due to cancer surgery and therefore often have to supply their wound more often a day. For example, the local health insurance fund Carinthia writes the following: "From a given occasion, we would like to point out that the experience of colostomy care - i.e. in the case of the sick - has shown that it is generally not necessary to use special care products such as pastries, ointments, skin protection film. Water and soap are completely sufficient for cleaning. Wound petrol, acetone is not required. Likewise, it is enough if a kitchen roll is used instead of cotton swabs." That, ladies and gentlemen, is cynicism. On the one hand, the main association covers a dubious business-maker system of individual companies, in which the black carpenters in the Chamber of Commerce are also involved about their federal innation, so that the red-black unit is together, and on the other hand, the hard-sick with artificial output, the cancer-surgical: Dear friends, take a kitchen role, because the hygienic cotton swabs we can no longer afford because of lack of money in the health insurance fund. That's what we criticize. That's what we want to know. And that is what I am telling you, Minister of State. There have been health insurance officials – as Mr Nürnberger did – today. Mr Nürnberger said: Well, we'll do a lot of things anyway, and we'll do everything we can. However, I would also ask you why, for example, the pensioners of the regional health insurance fund, i.e. those who have a special health insurance pension, the health insurance contributions are abolished only until the ASVG maximum contribution base of around 27 000 S, while the maximum contribution basis is 39 000 S for each official, but these rules usually have pensions of 50 000 S, 60 000 S or 70 000 S. You are talking about the fact that you want to equip the majority of pensioners with a higher health insurance contribution. However, in the health insurance companies, the staff have special pensions, which you have probably been silent about, because otherwise you would have to say that the special pensions of the health insurance staff and the social security staff throughout Austria account for 2.2 billion schilling. That's what the insured pay, no one's talking about this reform. The 450 million Schilling alone in the Vienna District Hospital, colleague Nürnberger, where you sit inside, makes up the 450 million schilling. This money would be better invested in the sick than in the end it would incite the privileged knights, officials and other beneficiaries of this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15499	Mr Mag. Stadler has spoken about an actual correction. . Mr deputies, please start by presenting the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15523	After a alleged phone call with Dr. Gerd Ivanic, Member Dr. Kier claimed that Dr. Ivanic had nothing to do with the ARGE orthopedics. This claim was later repeated by Mr Guggenberger of the SPÖ in his debate. So I'm actually correcting: ==References== 10., received to all orthopedic dealers in the country, with the letterhead of the company ARGE Orthopedice, was drawn by Dr. Gerd Ivanic himself under the title ARGE Orthopedice. Dr. Gerd Ivanic is a private account holder of the account of the ARGE Orthopedics to which all orthopaedics wishing to be included in the program of the honorable society. He's entitled to draw there. The account is on its own name. Dr. Gerd Ivanic lives in Graz, Heipelweg 2, which is the address under which the ARGE Orthopedics is registered in the company book. Dr. Gerd Ivanic is ultimately married to the daughter of Mr. Radl, with a certain Daisy Ivanic, who is in turn involved in companies held by Mr. Radl, who sits in the Commission of the ARGE Orthopedics.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15559	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15580	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Since the scandal analysts have done their work, since all the reliefs and aids in normal use have already been presented here in Parliament, we can now devote ourselves to a very serious and very important subject. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We have no fear of contact, we are on this matter. And I would also like to tell you that today we are talking about an area where it is really about remedies and aids and instruments that need poor, sick people. I don't think we should make fun of it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Do you want to defend the Mafia?]] I am telling you that we are going to work these things out very correctly. - First of all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Dr. Haider! You know everything very well, that's well known. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unlike you, you know nothing!]] They have said that the cost of cures, cures and aids is 17 billion schilling. That's right, Dr. Haider! But they also know that remedies are drugs, and they make up 15.2 billion, the cost of relief and aid is 1.8 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I can tell you about the drugs the same!]] I just wanted to clarify this so that you know that we understand something about it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Next thing: There's a colleague working in nursing. She says there's no decubitus mattress around 800 s that has quality. We must recognize that we can only compare the same thing with the same thing and that the quality also has its value. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I have the bill there!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say one more thing: It's nothing so good that it couldn't be any better tomorrow. I believe that we have a good social security and health insurance system, in general, except for some of the problems that exist. Dr. Pumberger! You have presented yourself here today as the Saviour and as the Saviour and you have submitted a request whose 31 questions do not refer to today's theme. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a concreteist!]] I can tell you: I don't want you to be a doctor, I wouldn't choose you with this "beautifulness" and "correctness". [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Since you thought that none of us was chatting, I can also tell you: We're going to open things up. But I would also expect you to tell us how you imagine the solutions. As chairman of the Committee on Health, I am always experiencing you in the way that you tell us about your internal suffering for hours. To date, I have not heard any concrete useful proposal from you. Dr. Pumberger, I'm waiting! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't raise any contributions, Mr. Cot!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You do not accept a single proposal! All applications are rejected!]] It doesn't make sense to have things impoverished, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! We must address the questions quite openly. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Every application is rejected!]] It's a system discussion. Please, let's get to the bottom of this! We have a system of legal social security without regard to the person. We have all included in the system and we also have to expect all the services. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This does not justify the Mafia in the social field!]] You've assembled private insurance today. I can tell you: Ask people who depend on private insurance, what it looks like with the contributions, if you want to take advantage of higher benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a fraud!]] Ask yourself what it looks like with the contributions when you've exceeded a certain age. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Are you defending the cheaters? Are you the cheater's lawyer?]] I just wanted to say that, and you should also talk about it quite openly and correctly. I'll tell you something. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a fraud!]] Don't always look so down-to-earth. – We have contribution rates in Austria, Dr. Haider, from 6.4 to 9.3 percent. In Germany you pay 12 to 14 percent. And if we were to introduce this contribution rate, we would have no more problems. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're a Bonze who just walled off!]] We will, however, endeavour to work on these contribution rates and find out what is going on. One more thing: You read the paper, I suppose. Didn't you read what the health system looks like in Sweden? Have you ever read what it looks like in England, where, for example, from a certain age on, operational measures are no longer being implemented? Have you ever read – you who are a better learner – that there are 44 million people in America who do not have social security protection in the event of illness? Do you want this system, or do you want to further expand, further develop and help improve the good system of us? This is our way, and we will work on it consistently. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Do you not know that a pensioner with an average pension of 12 500 S can pay for a contribution rate of 3.5 per cent per month 420 s and take full advantage of all health care benefits? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That does not justify the contribution!]] Isn't that a great thing? Does that not deserve to be recognized once? Stop your polemics! Why don't you go a right way with us? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You're always in charge of self-management, that's your favorite topic. I've been there for a year and a half. I already know the song. It's always the same. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A mandatory defender of the increase in contributions!]] Strobe 1, Strobe 2, Strobe 3, this is going on all the time. Please read it in the law! The tasks of self-management are clearly regulated, and if self-management does not perform a task, people will also be called away. You've decided on the terms, and you know exactly how much money there is. There are not 90 000 S – this is your kind of exaggeration – but there are no more than 55 000 S, and you know that. Sage You're telling me the truth, but don't be a spectacle! Ladies and gentlemen! Another conclusion: What's the problem? – First of all, the problem is that we have all built on a growth that we do not have at present. Secondly, the problem lies in the fact that we naturally receive a number of new benefits each year to be financed. Thirdly, higher life expectancy presents a new challenge. We will have to find answers to this. But you, Dr. Pumberger, will certainly not find them. I haven't heard anything like you to this day. It doesn't make sense to discuss with you. One last consideration: Mrs. Povysil, you thought it was time for a structural debate. You're always top fit in computing. Do you not know that we have 24 health insurance companies in Austria, but Germany has 837, and in us the administrative burden is 4 percent, whereas there is 5.4 percent? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We are not interested in the administrative burden in Germany!]] You should make that clear once again! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Take a look at the situation in Austria!]] I think we should talk about this too. We will deal with the topic presented today with all the accuracy and materiality. We have prepared our own proposal, which will then be tabled by President Hostasch, and we will endeavour to work all these things out correctly. How should I rate your work today? ==References====External links== June? – In the "Kurier" is literally – Mr. Dr. Haider, listen, even if it is not pleasant for you! –: "The data of the FPÖ – which are you – "are not 100% correct, the research of the 'Kurier' in orthopedic business of our country Austria." – Mr Dr. Haider! This is your policy: Quick and easy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15880	Mrs Hostasch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15902	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 4 p.m. this day, we have been discussing a subject that is very crucial to the Austrian population, which de facto affects 100 percent of the Austrian population: It is about the quality of our health care, about its quality in the hospital and in the extramural area as well as related to healing aids. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I do not take it from you that this debate is about a serious display of shortcomings in this system. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But we were right!]] Rather, they are concerned with defaming a good system and trying to undermine it in order to resolve it by a worse system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whoever puts in a request that health policy be exposed to the pure market, acts against the interests of people, of patients, of insured persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] We stand for the statutory health insurance system. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what was argued in the GDR!]] You will bite out your teeth while trying to dissuade us from this statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: They prefer to sell sleeps by 20,000 S!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Minister said that this must be checked!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] If, like a Tibetan prayer mill, you repeat the same thing again and again and confront this House and the Minister with individual examples which are not understandable, then I have to reject this form of criticism, especially in the light of our experience, that your arguments are, in the end, usually false, as objectively unwarranted or as half-truths, as absolutely unqualified and unacceptable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must listen to your own minister!]] If you could listen, you would also have heard that the Minister has long and several times announced that he will be able to lead him on his own that an examination of the awarding practice of the statutory health insurance companies will be carried out. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Read the application! Now I'm curious!]] Dr. Ofner! I'm going to read this request now. If you make allegations that are not comprehensible, that's your thing. We're dealing with a serious test. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes!]] It's about trying to optimize systems. The Minister has announced that, and he will. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore ask you to give your consent to the motion for a resolution by Mr Donabauer and Mr Hostasch concerning the awarding practice of statutory health insurance companies and to read it now. [[Quoted print version removed]] We support the Minister's policy, which is geared towards the needs of the people and which is aimed at fully corrective action. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank you for submitting this request!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16112	The motion for a resolution adopted by Mrs Hostasch is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. There is a second speech by Mrs Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. There are 4 minutes of speaking time available.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My second word is almost exclusively correct. Mr Stadler has said from this point of view that I would have claimed that Dr Ivanic has nothing to do with the ARGE Orthopedics. – To this end, I would like to say: I have not mentioned any names here, nor have I made the claim that Dr Ivanic has nothing to do with the orthopedics. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Guggenberger quoted you!]] I have only said here that what has been said here is quite one-sided, that no counter-search has been carried out, that it is urgent to investigate, and that the one-sided way in which the names of people are put into the wrong light under the protection of immunity is something I firmly reject. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think that's very important. I have expressly spoken against the unilateral procedure of bringing accusations here, such as facts. They make precepts instead of criticizing. There's a distinction to make. However, that the question of relief is indeed urgently to be examined, I have put myself out of dispute. I would like to stress this very explicitly once again. I said: I recommend the style and way of dealing with this problem. Because in this way one does not serve the matter if one really wants to serve it. That is why I spoke once again because I do not like such untrue statements as Mr Stadler made to me this time, as I do not allow them to be raised against a third party. I say again: Mr Stadler has said this literally. I do not at all argue that Mr Guggenberger presented this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] This isn't the subject here. This was put under me here, but I didn't say that. That's why it was important to me to clarify this. I would also like to make it clear that such things must, of course, be carefully examined. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is a real embarrassment!]] It even submitted a request for investigation to the Government Party. I therefore cannot understand at all why the liberals are so upset. I understand it only from the point of view that a person acts in such a way that he is caught accusing one-sided people. This debate alone has paid off, because it has once again been shown that genuine concerns can be expressed by methods which are unbearable in parliamentary terms. If that seems to make the liberals a new means of style, then it should only be right for me. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sit down, Kier!]] The more you shout, the more I gain the impression that it was very useful that I have now spoken, for if you know yourself so clearly in injustice, there remains nothing but a loud cry. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] – And this also fits very well with this party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16237	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16258	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President. I do not understand why Mr Kier has made himself a system defender here. As a member of an opposition party, he is not directly obliged to do so. But obviously, only the fact that the Freedom Party has once again managed to raise an essential issue, namely another scandal here in the High House, and to show the public once again how under the red and black cover of the government funds are wasted to people who publicly pretend to help disabled people, in fact, but know how to use this system to enrich themselves extremely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Donabauer here defends this system because he himself is the benefit of this system, as we have already described on the occasion of the urgent part of the AUVA. Mr Donabauer! I understand your reasons for defending this system here. They themselves – like likely many others here in this House, as well as relatives, acquaintances and party friends of this government party – are directly or indirectly beneficiaries of this system, which repeatedly – as correctly emphasized – asks the hardworking and the less deserving ones to cash out. They want to continue to support and maintain this system. But once again we have been able to show huge maladies. And that also forces you to act. We have already succeeded in other abuses which we have shown here, for example with the National Bank, with the consumption, with the DDSG and so on. Again and again it is the Freedom Party that succeeds in pointing out what is lazy in this state, for which you bear the responsibility. The fact that we are acting correctly and that this is also recognised shows the choices that take account of who really does political work in that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once again, we have only recently seen that we are being rewarded by the voter for the work we are doing here, and not by you, because you are in the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Friend: The National Council elections are very good for you! Yeah?]] It is really incredible what conditions were discovered this time in the field of awarding practice of statutory health insurance providers. Seamlessly, the whole thing fits into an Austrian chronicle scandale. Ladies and gentlemen! It is time for you, as an Austrian, to be ashamed of what adventurously long chronicle of scandals you can already have! It is an infinite story of scandals for which you, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, have to take responsibility here again and again. With the same knitting pattern and under the cover of a red-black government, new swamp flowers are created again and again, ladies and gentlemen. And it is also always the same beneficiaries. The fact that this emergency has also been hit in black has not least shown the reaction of Mr Kier, who obviously cannot live by the fact that the liberals are, in fact, the only opposition party in this House who can reveal maladministration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because the others have long tried to finally participate in the whole incident that exists here. – Do it, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, do it, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! The voter will present the invoice to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They have not even been able to dissuade something from the one presented here. I can't remember someone here saying at the speaker's desk: That's not true, because... I can't remember someone putting such facts on the table. It was the liberties who worked here with facts that bought help that presented invoices from which these incredible margins are apparent, which are simply scandalous. I don't think of any other word. [[Call the abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] We have not made any claim. The facts that we have mentioned here from the public have been consistently demonstrated. Finally, I would like to say how rightly we have once again demonstrated the request that Mr Hostasch has read here. This request is for me nothing but a clear admission of guilt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear admission to debt. Nevertheless, we will, of course, agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16335	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16356	I would like to say once again to this debate that there can be no question of a debt admission in this context. However, we will examine this area correctly, and until the opposite is proved, I assume that in all cases the employees responsible there have done the right thing. That's what I'm going to assume. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say once again that we have already commissioned cost reductions in this area for the main association, including in the negotiations on drugs and so on. And cost reductions have already been made. There has already been negotiations on price reductions in all these areas last year. Once again, I would like to point out that the ARGE Orthopedics – which is always done in this area, I do not know – has nothing to do with the main association and is not an organization in which the main association would be involved in any form. The ARGE Orthopedics is not an organisation of the main association or any other association that has something to do with health insurance, except that, as I have been informed before, it acts as a consultative for negotiating partners for the collection, but not for the main association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Because it is always claimed that Director-General Dr. Probst is active in this ARGE orthopedics, I would like to stress once again that he is not represented in this. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's in the Commission!]] He is the negotiator of the main association with the innung. Of course, he has to conduct the negotiations for the main association. And you bring quotations from a pre-contract that is not yet effective in which there are yes and no products according to economy... Mr. Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why did he sign the contract?]] If you say here again and again that Director-General Dr. Probst is a member of the ARGE Orthopedics or in any form working for them, I can tell you: It was clearly explained to me that he is not. I have a proposal to end this discussion: Dr. Haider! I invite you to clarify with us whether Dr. Probst is a member of the ARGE Orthopedics, as it has been claimed several times here. If it's not him, I'll ask you to be fair in this forum with him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16417	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We now have to vote on motions for resolutions, and I ask the honourable Members to take their seats. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades on general contracts for relief. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades on the practice of awarding health insurance schemes. I ask those who are in favour of this request for a corresponding sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hostasch, Mr Donaauer and Mr Comrades on the procurement practice of statutory health insurance companies. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give an appropriate sign of approval. This request has been adopted unanimously. (E 12.) Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16480	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mrs Mag. Terezija Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 109/A by Dr Madeleine Petrovic and Comrades on Relativism Novels In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. After the end of this debate, the vote on this request for a deadline will take place. We are going into the debate. According to the provision of § 57a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall not speak for more than five minutes. As the first speaker, Mr Kostelka spoke in this debate. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! According to an old English Parliamentary wisdom, a politician who doesn't think anything about it asks for tax reductions or diet reductions. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made it possible in the last few days and weeks to agree on both points of view. [[Abg. Madl: Hahaha!]] We are committed to this – and there is also a clear statement in the Labour Convention for this legislative period – that there is a reform step, the first one has already been taken, in connection with the reference law of the federal, state and local authorities. The first step, which has been taken, is that this professional group in this area, ladies and gentlemen, is the only one in Austria that will carry out its work in 1997 on references to 1993. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But let us be aware that there is also a lot to be considered in this area. Since the establishment of the National Council in this legislative period, we have had a meeting on average every week, and we have also had a committee meeting on average every second day, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. What we are doing here is also a professional activity and needs a corresponding reward in the interests of the quality of what we are doing. We certainly have consequences – and this is also to be seen in the Labour Convention – from the fact that the imagination in the relation law between the federal, state and local authorities has become uneven. Ladies and gentlemen! This reverse income pyramid must be placed back on the feet from the head. Because sometimes the mayor of a state capital now deserves more than the head of state and the head of state than the Federal Chancellor. We are prepared to discuss this, we have promised you that we will submit an appropriate proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You have submitted three applications with very different objectives of very different quality and deadlines up to 9 and 11 respectively. ==References== I am sure that, in view of the content of these proposals, there has not even been a majority in your own political groups. I assume that not even you have come to an opinion in these three areas, let alone that on the basis of these requests a common view could be found throughout the House. Let us discuss this matter in the necessary time and in democratic responsibility. It is clear that even at a price of 10 000 s in this House, there are 183 Austrians who would be prepared to take over a corresponding mandate. The question is, which one. The political relationship has to be a fair charge for the work done here. That the term "fair" is taken seriously, however, we are guilty of democracy. It must not, ladies and gentlemen, be an amount of 60 000 s, as the liberals agree with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16551	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16572	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a great deal of understanding for the argument of the clubman of the Socialist Group, who meant that we have to discuss these matters thoroughly. We have in itself given sufficient time to the Social Democrats and the ÖVP to discuss this subject thoroughly. For the liberals have already submitted a comprehensive initiative proposal for the re-regulation of political relations in the last legislative period. This request was apparently so good that, in a newspaper interview, Mr Khol spoke to the "Tyrol daily" that the ideas of the liberals with those of the ÖVP cover political relations. There would therefore have been no reason to shift this to the long-term bank, since there would have been at least a majority formation already in the last legislative period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I understand that my colleague, Mrs Schwemlein, does not want to participate in this, because he has made great statements in Salzburg's newspapers that he should be impoverished and could not live without his unemployed income in addition to his political relationship. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The tears come to us!]] It is therefore of course for us that you cannot participate in this. Secondly, we believe that it is now really time for action to take place. All parties know that this is not basically the question of the income pyramid alone, because you have long promised us. Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky, as chairman of the Social Democracy, has already said in 1990 in the election campaign: In social democracy, a system is now being introduced which means that no one can earn more than the Federal Chancellor. Until a few months ago, however, the mayor of Vienna earned about 330 000 S! Now this income has been reduced a little because it has become embarrassing. And tomorrow's "Kronen Zeitung" I take the view that even President of Parliament Dr. Fischer has for years been referring to his 190 000 S monthly salary as President of Parliament 53 000 S as a parliamentary employee. I have been told that this arrangement has existed since 1971. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I'm just saying what we're talking about here. Mr Kostelka, for example, is referred to as a "small fish" which, in addition to his clubman's relationship, which is in itself decent, as I can say from my own experience, also needs 40 000 s as a parliamentary employee. These are the things the people are rubbing up! On the one hand, today the disabled are reduced the pocket money from 1 100 S to 550 S, because there is no money available, but on the other hand, one does not regulate these things, but says: That's where we need time to think about it. – If you cross the disabled and the weak, you will never need time; you will agree very quickly. But when it comes to regulating things that also enable us to deal properly with the citizens, everything will be pushed to the long bank. That is why we, the only group, have voluntarily withdrawn this 60 000 S limit. The Social Democrats have always called for this. You've always demanded this, my dear friends! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You've always said: We must regulate the total salaries of politicians compared to the average content of the population in a relation of 1 : 3 or 1 : 4. – We have actually done that, ladies and gentlemen! What actually prevents you from confessing and participating in color here? - That's our call to you. We don't want to deal with who's better now and who's worse. But it has been enough time to deal with it. Since the XIX. The legislative period is a comprehensive request from the liberals. Now he was brought in again. The Greens have made a similar request. Mr Khol says that his ideas are based on those of the liberals. There will soon be a majority! And if Social Democracy does not participate, but wants to further defend the Privilege Knights, that is her problem. In this Parliament, however, many Members are seriously interested in the fact that they are also credible to the public in their own affairs. There is a solid majority in favour of implementing a reform here, which is correct, which ensures the performance income that concludes with the nonsense of political pensions, eliminates the discharges and thus makes it clear to the Austrians that the savings package has not passed away from politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16628	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16649	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The two government parties have undertaken in the Government Agreement to tackle two major issues by the end of this year and to submit proposals to the House on this matter. One of the problems is how to define, through a constitutional provision, ceilings for federal, national, local, self-government and interest groups, so-called'relation pyramid', the other problem being the so-called 'unemployed income', i.e. income that Members of this House have without working for it. Both problems are major problems. I have recently seen a cartoon in the "standard" where Klubobmann Kostelka and I were drawn at the beginning of the construction of the Cheops pyramid. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the workers on the Cheops pyramid have not set a time limit either, they have also left the time they needed. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But she's done for a long time!]] So I think we need time for this reference pyramid, whose creation is a very serious work. As far as the problem of double pay and unemployment income is concerned, I can only say here: That group among us, in which there is no such problem, is throwing the first stone. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For if you calculate everything together, i.e. public service, interest representatives, political parties as service providers, then more than half of the ladies and gentlemen of this House are both representatives of the parliament as well as public servants, party employees or officials of interest representatives. More than half! The liberals also have 20 percent. It is the most common among the Social Democrats; the Greens and the EIA are about 50 percent. I believe that this is a major and important problem. We will all sit together and solve it by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16693	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! You're right: A good solution needs their time. It is a long trip until there, but also the longest journey begins with the first step. There have already been many announcements in this context, but the first steps have not been taken. That's the real problem. It is also a problem, however, that such debates are always brought down as licensing debates and that one does not confess to say: We need a transparent solution. That really has to be on the table. . The time would be good now, and it would not be wrong to take the deadline proposal, Mr Khol, to really take decisive steps before the summer break. It would be good if, by the end of the summer, the models available at least determined where unity exists and where there is still a need for discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not serious!]] This is very serious, Mr Khol, because we must rightly fear that nothing will come of it by the end of the year. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But do you think you can solve these problems in a week?- Oh, my God!]] That's not true. Look, all the requests that have been made today, Mr Khol, have been since 27. The proposal from the Liberal Forum, Mr Khol, was prepared with Neumann Management Consultants on February 1st. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not with the reference pyramid!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not a bad start!]] This is a truly well thought-out request, which is characterized by the requirement that it does not require any settlements, no pensions and, at last, that we have to get there, that we end up with double references. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] There must be no unemployment income here. This is clearly contained in our model. In the field of public servants, it will be necessary to consider whether, realistically, there is a possibility at all to come to some percentage solution, because there will have to be a performance check. But from our approach we have once again been held: no redundancies, no pensions and no unemployment income. That, ladies and gentlemen, we want to have dealt with before the summer, and that will also be the reason why we will give our approval to all three requests for deadlines. We have waited long enough for finally to begin. The announcements are enough! It must finally be implemented! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16816	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16838	Dobar ve#er, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am already very surprised, as Mr Klubobmann Kostelka said, as regards – how did he say? – the actual time needed to consider something mature is different – depending on whether it's about your own bag or whether it's about the Austrians' pocket. I remember very well, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, that there were time limits for the structural adjustment law, which can indeed be described as a serious law, not only now, but also in terms of its content, but only for days, in some cases, almost hours. Dear Mr. Klubobmann! Here is a certain thought of your own bag indeed not to hide! What bothers me about your argument is not that you criticize that of today, 13. ==References== July is too short a time to really deal with these things in a serious and in-depth way. I'm just wondering what actually happened from February until now. The three opposition applications are not just today, but all three have been submitted in February of this year. They are very different – that's right – but in the core they all meet the same thing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I really wonder if the Austrians in the natural for us 183 already interesting thing – that's about their own money – share your opinion if, for example, it is possible to limit the financial base for students in Austria within days. It couldn't go fast enough! This is a very, very strange concept of democracy, which also shows the revered Mr Klubobmann of SPÖ. But here, of course, he speaks as a victim of a regulation – now I am not referring to February this year, because the Greens' request has already been made in the last GP, and none of the two major parties has been concerned about what to do with it and how to do with it – which contains one aspect – and this is about me; I have been talking about in all the newspaper comments and the sparse reports about what you have discussed in your talks on Tuesday or what you have referred to in reference to the 25. In June, where it is intended to continue, there is nothing to be heard – which is, in fact, also an essential point, but which does not occur in the public debate and which rightly brings with it the outrage of opposition and also of the citizens, namely the aspect of hidden party funding. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're not telling you everything! We can't say all things! You're so curious!]] We have taken this point into account in our request and we demand that it be no longer possible for the free parliamentary mandate to be restricted by forced contributions to clubs and parties, so that, for example, SPÖ members are embarrassed to explain to the public that they need to pay their pension or their unemployed income, for which they do not do anything, because it corresponds exactly to the amount of the club tax and the party tax they have to pay. Yeah, isn't that embarrassing to you? Is it not embarrassing for you to know, if you count a little high, that on the social democratic side alone, 15 million shillings of your salaries will flow into your party's funds through the referee law? – Saying Once you do this to the voters, they will also understand that some of you are afraid of losing something. We must also have courage in politics, namely the courage to do something, and I cannot see this courage in you. For if I do not have a bad conscience that I use too little time, too little intensity and too little commitment in my profession, I can also confess to the salaries and to the incomes that the law grants today. I am not talking about unemployed income at all now, because I simply think it is not appropriate for politicians to obtain an unemployed income. But if you have the courage to stand at your own service, there will be no problem with payment. – That is why we will all agree to three deadline proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16875	No one is reported in the word anymore. This debate is therefore closed. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Member States' motion 109/A MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund comrades concerning contract law novelles a period of time until 9. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16920	The next step is to carry out a further brief debate on the request made by the honourable Member. Stadler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on the request of Parliament 105/A. Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law amending the referee law and other laws, a period of until 11. to sit on July. After the debate, the vote on this request will take place. We are going into the debate. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16950	Mr President. High house! Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka has tried to stir us up: We poor politicians have remained attached to the 1993 references, have no real wage increases! – The Austrian population are ordered cuts, interventions, taxes, but then extremely larmoyant: We have remained with the reference sizes of 1993! But the bird was shot down, Mr President, you did not have a bird with your gest, Mr Haider, but shot the bird down in this high house, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, honourable Members Kostelka, when he said: We're so busy! On average, we have one session a week! One special meeting after another! He constantly shudders at the special sessions of the liberals. Because this is unpleasant to the government, we even have to change the Rules of Procedure, and the support for the performance of Parliament, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, does well to do what Mr Bundeskanzler wants. He always complains that there are too many sessions, but then he comes out here and says justament: Because we have so many meetings, we are right to get the political content, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed the greatest thing that the national Council's meetings, which were so highly criticised before, are already serving to justify political relations. Only, Mr Kostelka: Your non-active relationship, your unemployed income may You don't justify yourself with our special meetings. How do you explain that to the people who are ordered to pay the belt-embarrassed belts - with time-limits? – There, I am immediately giving my colleague Stoisits - with the shortest deadlines, with constitutional provisions to ensure that all of this still applies retroactively! I look at whether you will be prepared to intervene retroactively in the political salaries, to intervene in pension rights, to intervene in the rights of settlement, just as you were willing to do so in the populace of course! [[Complaints with the liberals]] There was no genius at all to work with deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen! Then it will no longer be possible to talk only about the case of Höchtl, although this is, of course, a really scandalous case – he has also significantly left the debate – it will also be about the case of Kostelka, it will be about the case of Fischer – I do not know, Mr President, how you are setting up now, I do not see – it will be about the case of Posch to talk about the case of Mertel, which – so often she was at work – has not even noticed that her head of state Dr. Haider has taken away the desk because she was never there, and it will be about the "threated by poverty" Member Schwemlein. [[Abg. Grabner: Bauer!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And over the Wabl!]] [[Abg. Grabner: And over the farmer! Don't forget!]] All of this is no longer responsible! And I have no desire to stand in front of the people of these people who, in addition to their political activities, want to obtain an unemployed income. And you will also have to talk about the case of Moser. Of course, we will have to talk about how a man can handle himself using the system, that he goes early in early retirement, while telling all the other Austrians that they have lost nothing in the early retirement, ladies and gentlemen! You'll have to talk about it! All these things will have to be talked about, as I say, quickly, with deadlines. If the population is allowed to set deadlines, Constitutional provisions and retroactive effects, then this will only be right and cheap for politicians too. That is why we will also agree with the Liberals' request, just as we have already agreed to the Greens' request and, of course, we will support our own request. Ladies and gentlemen! They should not always wait until it is reported in magazines, newspapers and the ORF that we already have a case again, like the case of Höchtl, which has suddenly triggered this execution of the Austrian People's Party. Before elections, it is well known that we always want to stand in front of the voters, and it is always embarrassing when such a case arises that soon for two decades a jobless income will be collected, for which there is not the slightest justification!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17020	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17042	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol has done something from the speaker's desk, which was probably the "greatest" of the contributions that have been made here today. Mr Höchtl, fortunately, laughed, others believed that they had done quite decently, because they did not take the salary, but allowed the pension to continue to be paid by the state. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: How are you?]] Others think they have to accuse those who have been talking about a jobless income for ten years now, as Mr Schwarzenberger has done quite successfully. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I have no unemployed income!]] There are two categories in this House, Mr Schwarzenberger: One is those who have passed laws by a majority, these are the government parties. They have passed an immoral law 20 years ago, which represents a daily or an annual temptation for certain people, such as Mr Höchtl, Mrs Stoisits, Mr Moser, Mr Wabl or Mr. Bauer or Mr Kostelka or Mr Fischer, to list all parties. These government parties have made a law that is immoral and causes public trouble, but the political discussion is reduced to the individual Buhmann. Ladies and gentlemen! First and foremost, there are those parties that are politically responsible for it – and that is the SPÖ and the ÖVP! That is the problem on this issue. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] We can discuss how the individual Member who is exposed to this temptation has responded, as in my case, for example: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But you can't give up!]] I was subjected to this temptation ten years ago, submitted a request to the Council of State Schools and received an answer: A reduction in your salary to zero is not possible. – I have found that this is a scandal, is to the press, has gone to the public, has insulted the politicians, has said that it is impossible, and has finally donated the salary. – Come now They therefore ask: Mr. Wabl, you also have an unemployed income? But Mr Khol's biggest infammy is doing! He poses himself here and says: My God, ladies and gentlemen, that party, which does not have such a case in its group, in its group, is throwing the first stone. – He has learned the Bible, the honourable Member. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You should rather learn that you have been sitting in the government party and could have changed this law for 20 years to help your weak court on your legs with a law that changes this state, Mr. Khol! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, Mr Kostelka, who has of course also put on a certain record: It is not yet clear whether you can give up. Of course, I can give up private law, civil law. Of course! I can give up on anything. I can waste my house of the church, waste the state, I can waste my salary on anyone. I can, of course, also entertain Mr Höchtl. Of course! Ladies and gentlemen! That's not the problem. The problem is that we have laws that are designed in such a way that they are constantly becoming a public nuisance. And with your speech, Mr. Khol, you have also become a public nuisance. This is the fatale of the whole discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] You are ridding yourself of political responsibility, Mr Kukacka! For 22 years, you have watched your "poor", weak heights and have not changed this law. This is the problem you have and you too from the Socialist Group. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Fekter! Stop your moral socks! Modify You're this law! You have the majority in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17162	The next item is Mrs Dr Mertel's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17183	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has here once again – like several Members of his group before him – made the claim that Mr. Haider had taken away a desk in his short term in Carinthia, and I therefore... Yes, Mr. Stadler, it was in the newspaper, but two days later it was just as detailed in the paper that it was not true. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was in the newspaper!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: How long did you not notice?]] Unfortunately, I did not understand you, I have no interest in it either. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You didn't notice!]] It was even the room away. It was the room away, it was the desk away, but under my back, dear, Mr. Ex-Federal. Mr. ex-landman, as you imagine it and as you, dear little Mr. Stadler, imagine it in your bold dreams, so you do not jump around with officials in the public area. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That you didn't notice, that's the problem!]] But Mr Stadler, I have not only noticed that Mr Landesamtsdirektor, the right hand of the former head of state, has also informed me that my room has to be cleared, and the room room was only open to my cooperation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are not daily for weeks!]] I had to pack my own things myself. I had to pack the files myself. It is a matter of course that one does. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There was nothing to pack!]] I was there myself when things were transferred from my room. So that means that I left a desk and occupied another one or another room. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! They smile so pangsy, so "knowing" pangsy. You know very well that there are certain rules of play in the public sector that are being observed. And in that case they were observed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! Is this a debate contribution or an actual correction?]] I've been told that I'm getting a new room. Even under a head of state, Haider, a Social Democratic MP was granted a room with a desk, although his intention was transparent: that is to say, in my parliamentary work, I was hindered from working as a staff representative. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, it was there!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17314	The next speaker is Mr Peter Haselsteiner. – This too is a word message. Since no actual corrections are possible in a short debate, I am giving the floor exclusively to contributions to debate. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17335	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to be able to hear at least one out of all the speeches: there is a need for action that is undisputed that the applicable right of reference can no longer be made understandable and that no political group would like to oppose such a reform. But what I do not understand in such a debate is why, as government parties, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP, you cannot accept these requests for deadlines. Why, Professor Khol, do you want to postpone this until the end of the year? – What you can get today – You are so well-read and so firm in all these things – that does not move to tomorrow! Professor Khol! Hold on to it! You agree, because otherwise there is another suspicion that you only want to open a valve to the pressure, because now by chance Your parade Hochtl made headlines again – this time in a different form than a few weeks ago. I don't know which is the more pleasant headline: Kiss king or cashier king – both are unpleasant. [[Abg. Aumayr: Kiss King is cheaper!]] One is cheaper for the Republic, I admit. – It may already be that all of this is not pleasant, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is only unfortunately true, and you know that too. Why, Professor Khol, vote So you're not allowed to set deadlines? – Saying Please! Explain to me why you can't really put yourself under a certain amount of time pressure if you've recognized a problem as urgent and even admit it! I think it would be wise for you to apply this psychological trick to yourself and say: Yes, let's set ourselves a feasible, but a serious, time limit – and that's the 9. July. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Voices Mrs Mertel, please accept this request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17396	No one is reported in the word anymore. We therefore come to the vote. I shall vote on the request that the National Council decide on a deadline for application 105/A until the 11th. to sit on July. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a deadline to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Thus, the application is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a brief comment on this problem, which we must safely resolve: We have it here with a problem, with a legal situation, including the kind. 59a of the Federal Constitution to do. This legal situation is based on a three-party initiative proposal from SPÖ, ÖVP and the Liberals from 1983 and was then decided by all, against one vote, which does not mean that one cannot change an almost unanimous decision when there are arguments. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17442	We are back in the negotiations on points 1 to 8 of the agenda. At 4 p.m., Mrs Madl was interrupted. She will be given the floor to continue her speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17466	Mr President. High house! I continue where I interrupted about 5 hours ago, in the word "reason" – a word that is used here in this house a bit strange. [[Abg. Leikam: 5 1⁄2!]] The Minister has already talked about employment offensive today and about the fact that it is a concern not only in Austria but throughout Europe to provide jobs, and this is a matter which is really a priority. At the same time, however, he decides on a tax and savings package which in many cases is exactly the opposite, namely the destruction of more jobs and no procurement. Whether that is a matter of reason, this is the debate here. For example, a few days ago, I spoke to a paintmaker and spongler who told me that he now has a huge work attack due to the many hailings. He could work day and night, Saturday, Sunday, because every customer who comes to him and whose car has been damaged by the hail, of course, wants to have his car again the next day or at least a week. - You know what that is. However, it is not possible to meet this demand because its 26 employees refuse to do overtime. And do you know why they reject it? – They say if they do overtime now, they will be punished for working more. Look, Minister, this is the morale of history! This is the consequence of what you have imposed on workers who are willing to work with your tax package. This is exactly the opposite of what you said today when you said you wanted to start an employment offensive, you want to create jobs. – You do exactly the opposite! You know that we have rising unemployment. From 1994 to 1996, there was an increase of more than 11 percent. But there are still people who want to work, and these are then provided by the labour market service. Someone who needed a skilled worker for his sawmill told me that it was not possible for him to find a suitable man, because those who had introduced themselves to the labour market service were loud helpers and not skilled. He then went to the labour market service and said: I asked for a skilled worker for my sawmill and got an untrained assistant. – This person – otherwise it cannot be described – has said that he has assessed whether a skilled worker is necessary in this sawmill or whether an auxiliary worker is sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! There are people in the labour market service – Mr Minister! Please listen to me! – who have never worked anything for their lives, but are wondering to allocate work. That's the scandal! In these circumstances, it really does not surprise me, Mr Minister, if many people who are looking for work are not assigned to the right places. Finally, and finally, this is also a burden to the social budget. They have also been approved by the savings package, Mr Minister, that families are severely burdened. They approved last year that the family allowance would be reduced, that the birth allowance would not be granted, that there would be a retention of school books and that there would be 300 s for children's leave of residence. You have also put a huge burden on the families through the energy taxes – I have already told you about the budget debate. Now it is time for families to feel these burdens. They feel it when renting, they feel it with the operating costs and with what the energy tax is following. Minister! And now you support the fact that the families of foreign workers who work in us are still looking after them. Today, Mr Oellinger, Mr President, has said that it should be a humane move against it. – I have to inform him of a statistics, which is a graphic sent out by the press: In 1973, 226,000 foreign workers were employed here. The foreign population was then estimated at 300 000. So there were 226,000 foreign employees, and 300,000 lived here. In 1983 the relationship was already slightly different: 145 000 foreign workers have worked here, and the number of foreign residents was 297 000. 1993 looks much, much more angry: 277,000 foreign workers face 700 000 foreigners in the population. – Mr Ollinger, Member of the European Parliament! You can't really talk about a non-human move in Austria anymore! Minister! 700 000 people live here – not working – and the illegals are not yet included in this number at all. All of them, of course, also use our social system, such as our kindergartens. On the one hand, it is a pity that 200 000 kindergartens are going off, on the other hand, eyes are closed to facts, to figures and numbers that are really on the table. And then they say we're inhuman when we say, We want an immigration stop. Then we're called bad alien hater. Minister! That's not all right! Another word on night work for women: You know very well, Mr Minister – and I told you in the Committee at the time – that there is a ruling from the European Court of Justice, which states that the ban on night work for women is contrary to the principle of equality. You know that this ban on night work for women must fall by 2002. This is a condition for the EU, and this has been decided by the European Court of Justice. Now pressure has arisen because of the bakers. Minister! I ask you: Why Reluctant You and you keep making novels of this nightwork law every year? Why don't we make a sex-neutral nightwork law for everyone, since you know very well that this will be necessary in a few years anyway? They are always hesitant: If there's pressure, then give it a little bit, and then a little bit again, and again a little bit. And, accordingly, our social system looks like it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I asked you in the Committee on Budgets at the time, after I informed you that the ÖBB is now trying to impose on railways really hearing rents and lease contracts to talk to the Minister for Transport. You answered me in writing that you will do something for these traffickers. However, nothing has been done so far. Minister! These people who now have to continue their business under these horrendous lease contracts will have to lock up in one or two years, their business will no longer exist! In other words, there will be more unemployed people, even more unemployed women working in these trafiques. Minister! You have promised that you will settle this matter, and will talk to the Minister for Transport, but nothing has come out. These people were forced to sign inhuman lease contracts so that at least for the next few months their existence is secured. Minister! Among them are also many people who are really disabled. There are still a lot of disabled traffickers. Even if a woman or a lot of women sell there: the owner is disabled. He couldn't keep himself over water with normal work at all. That is why I have also addressed this request to you as the Minister for Social Affairs. But unfortunately God has not changed anything, it has all remained with the old. Minister! The agricultural policy also has an impact on our social budget. And you agree with an agricultural policy that has triggered a massive migration of farmers. It is therefore no wonder, Minister, that today the pension system of farmers is such that an active farmer must receive a pensioner. Do you know why? - Because the youth doesn't want to take over the farms at all. That is why the generation contract with the farmers is no longer secured. Minister! Much has already been said about the need for action. I think it is not right to speak in this context in the present. The need for action existed years ago, Minister. A so hesitant, always-moving solution to problems that really arise is really wrong. I can understand the Austrians, who are not very concerned with politics, but still are concerned, and rightly so. I understand when they say: We no longer want to be ruled by a government that is unable to make decisions for the good of Austrian citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17512	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17541	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to look at the 1994 work inspectorate's report in my contribution today. There is always a great deal of pity that the labour inspection is anti-work and agonizing. – The numbers, however, speak another language: The number of operational audits – which can be read in the report – is constantly decreasing. From 1988 to 1994, the decrease was 35 percent, from 84 600 to 58 437. The number of complaints found has also decreased rapidly from 1992 onwards. Statistically, only every fourth operation was checked. Although this trend is linked to the increase in the number of establishments, to the improved quality of work audits and to the increasing advisory activity, the main task of the labour inspectorate, namely to be the supervisory authority for the protection of workers, is more and more called into question. After the draft legislation on the Employment Protection Act in 1995, it was mentioned that 20 additional labour inspectors are required to ensure the additional burden of consulting, which has been added, after the supervision of foreign employment has also been transferred from the labour market service to the labour inspectorate, a significant increase in the number of labour inspectors should be made in order to ensure a consistent number of occupational audits at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue, which is also very important in this context, is stress. The International Labour Organization describes stress as the disease of the 20th century. In the 19th century, he drew conclusions from numerous studies that have now been dedicated to this phenomenon in the world of work: Work pace, chord work, monotonous work, shift work, overtime, inadequate breaks, lack of social contacts and pressure from superiors are the most common stress factors. According to a 1991 survey by the Central Statistical Office, 1.1 million out of about 3 million employed workers in Austria complain about high time pressure at work. Fatigues, headaches, irritability, frustration, aggression, dizziness, high blood pressure, stomach ulcers and heart attacks are the best known follow-up symptoms. For example, the pension insurance institution of the employees assigns a quarter of all occupational incapacity pensions to typical stress-related cardiovascular diseases, and I think the dark rate is probably much higher. With regard to the new obligations of employers laid down in the Employment Protection Act, it will be necessary in future to increase the use of social scientists and work psychologists available to monitor, but also to advise employers, occupational workers' organisations and, of course, works councils. Labour inspection is not a criminal authority, it should be made quite clear once, but a partner for safety! In this context, I warn against deterioration in the protection of workers. The usual pattern seems to work. The image of the critical labour inspector is drawn in the media on the basis of bizarre examples. The consequence: The Labour Inspectorate Act has already been somewhat outraged. – The economy is now discovering that the EU rules on health protection at work two years ago announced since the publication of the Labour Protection Act in 1995 are a "devil law" whose implementation of the economy is not reasonable. With demagogic figures, ladies and gentlemen, which are to prove that this law costs 10 000 s per employee per year, it is again called for compensation of the law. A concentrated action against worker protection is currently operating a Welser agricultural machinery dealer named Prillinger, who has sent a convoluted 38 pages to more than 500 companies and has a comment on the protection of workers and workers. Among other things, he writes: In order to make this disgrace of bureaucracy known once: This law is suitable for simply finishing every Austrian company so that it is a mockery when politicians today speak of job security. He proposes to forward his comment in the form of a chain letter to at least ten known establishments. He even calls for the creation of his own employers' association. He asked: Press conferences, discussions with politicians, joint trips to Vienna by many affected employers. And Prillinger is not afraid to call for countermeasures like – listen! –: Emigration of Austria and staff reduction. The demand for a separate employers' association is expected to have taken up the Chamber of Commerce in Upper Austria. She invited Mr Prillinger. He wrote this letter on 6 June. May, and already a few days later, on 28 May. May, the Chamber of Commerce held a press conference and invited this Mr Prillinger from the agricultural machinery industry as an informant. I would like to save you the comments from this convolut. Just one example: Prillinger calls this Workers' Protection Act a "workplace destruction law" as a diabolic law that enormously inhibits the desire to be a businessman and greatly insecures work as an employer". He then writes on – and now I come to this ominous 10,000 S –: All establishments in Austria who are required to apply this law are expected to cost at least 10 000 S per employee per year.' Ladies and gentlemen! The job evaluation, which is addressed at these costs – i.e. the assessment, evaluation and documentation of the risks and determination of defence measures at each workplace – takes about four hours in a medium-sized workshop. I don't know what to cost 10,000 s! That's inexplicable! Ladies and gentlemen! There were also interesting reactions in the media, of course in the relevant ones. The Upper Austrian Chamber of Commerce, in its leaf, of course brings the headline: "Employee Protection Act becomes ticking bomb for businesses". Then it says: Economy protests against absolutely exaggerated protective trends." – "A huge bureaucratic and financial effort". Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Prillinger wrote that this is a "devil law", I have already quoted. And so it was published in the media. The Social Minister is invited to step up the Workers' Protection Act. The Economic and Social Committee asked for this in its plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to warn you here: Health is the highest good. I don't want to throw everyone into a pot. But I really have to ask: When do such entrepreneurs, such as this Mr Prillinger, finally understand that the Workers' Protection Act is not about the damage to businesses, but about the long-term maintenance of the health of hundreds of thousands of workers? – This is an objective whose achievement should have been of course so far and for which it is worth drawing together with all the other Member States of the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17623	The next speaker is Mr Meisinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17644	Mr President. Federal Minister! Today we are discussing the report on the social situation 1994. I must say that in recent years it has always been very encouraging to report on and celebrate the increasing employment figures. In recent times, however, this is all the more alarming as the unemployment rate has swung up. Today at the turn of the year, we had to report almost 300,000 unemployed: That's 9 percent. However, we still have to count on the 130 000 who are in foundations and training, and another 80 000 over 50 years, currently largely involuntary in early retirement. So our unemployment situation is not as pleasing as it is always presented. Because we are more than 15 percent due to this bill. And the trend from 1994 to now is very negative. The fact that the number of unemployed has increased by 15 per cent over the last one and a half years, and the fact that 15 jobseekers – in some areas even more than 30 unemployed – come to an open stand shows the hopeless situation for those affected. The report also shows, however, that you, Mr Bundesminister, have not yet provided any securities cover for pension rights from direct social service commitments in the field of occupational pensions and pension funds. However, it would be particularly important to become active in this field, because in the event of the insolvency of a company, the pension rights of workers are not guaranteed. It would therefore be reasonable to increase the second level, i.e. operating pension funds or occupational pensions, if the state pensions are not quite as safe in the near future. - I know you're going to interpret it differently. But if you look at the life curve or the age curve, you too, even if you are still such an optimist, must realize that we are facing very difficult times. They announce improvements over and over again, but then they punish by the side of those who have taken care of their own in the area of pension. As a result of the significantly increased tax on insurance, further precautions in this area will be greatly reduced. And the reduced depreciation possibilities set out in the last load package even have a particularly negative effect. The fact that this is a purely monetary acquisition action by the Federal Government in order to be able to finance this government's overarching waste policy is only mentioned by the way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, this report also announces further reforms of the legal representation of interests. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As an employee, I know from experience that this is a more or less dangerous threat. For example, in the membership survey by the Chamber of Workers, over 200 million schillings are spent on waste of money. [[Abg. Silhavy: The result obviously hurts you!]] Wait a minute! The way in which you drive the workers to question them is no longer democratic anyway. There is no mention of a secret election at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Don't put something back in the room! Prove what you say!]] Persecuting the growth that there has been. They are almost communist methods of dealing with the workers, in order to achieve the exclusion of the Chamber of Workers, as the leading people of the Chamber of Labour describe. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: These are precepts!]] I would also like to point out that we do not question the existence of the Chamber of Labour in any way. However, the Austrian citizen is free enough to decide whether membership should be legally binding or not. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kiermaier and Abg. Dietachmayr.]] You can't make everyone happy! You think there are loud unmistakable members that you can lead on the gang! But these times are over! [[Abg. Silhavy: Are you aware of the results of the vote?]] For the ever-increasing number of insolvency victims among the workers who are forced members, who often spend months... [[Abg. Silhavy: You do not take note of the results of the vote!]] Get in touch with me! Or we'll talk about it later on at a coffee! Then you will also take note of my point of view! For months, sometimes up to a year, workers have to wait for the payment of the wages they have been deprived of because the insolvency compensation fund is pleading. – We have made a request in the Chamber, which has gone there, may the Chamber have a heart for those forced members who have come into an emergency, who may have lost their home, and will help them. But there is no money from the chamber officials of the majority party because they have no heart for this affected layer! Pre-financing would certainly be justified. In the meantime, hundreds of millions are wasted from compulsory self-prosecution contributions, as I refer to this membership survey. You don't have any restraints to throw the money out of the window in this way! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] A particularly "noble" solution will be provided in the future with the income of the workers' chamber presidents. The current monthly income of 132 361 S will be reduced per forma to 80 000 S in future. However, the remainder of around 53 000 S is paid tax free of charge on a monthly basis. This is another way to help the President, who can address himself to additional sources of revenue: 53,000 p.a. tax-free per month! And that's where these retired legal workers' representatives speak of the "close unsolicited tax loopholes". – I have remembered this from the speeches of the last months. I believe that this is not just an increase of the forced members, but of all the citizens who are deprived of thousands of schillings in order to re-establish the budget. There's no wonder when appropriate newsletters are written to newspapers. I would like to read to you such a Gustopückerl: In a beestock, inactive drones are thrown out of the stock so that they do not endanger the survival of the people. In our large businesses, but also in politics, one throws out the work. An employee of the union said 30 years ago: Once the trade union members fail and pay nothing more, we also need to look at a job." – That’s the opinion in the people! I can tell you: If you have such a "absolute" opinion, if you want to live in your self-sustaining business at the expense of others, then this is your thing. But the results of the elections over the last ten years speak a clear language. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's totally nonsense!]] Yes, from your point of view, because you don't have a feeling anymore. You are no longer afraid of living at the expense of others. You only make difficult provisions for the people! [[Further call of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] We have seen among the politicians, or at the privileges, how concerned you are for your belongings and good! But back to the Social Report. If we look at the trend in national income, we see that the national income has fallen from 6.2% to 5.3% between 1992 and 1994. Gross remuneration for self-employed workers has fallen from 5.9 to 3.6 percent. However, the income from property and enterprise is equal to 7.7 percent. Gross pay per employee has even been reduced from 5 to 3.1 percent. This is a clear sign of how unkindly this socialist-dominated government operates! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of the development of the last 15 years, it can be seen that tax revenue and social taxes have increased significantly. The wage tax has increased from 1989 to this year to double, from 90 to 180 billion schilling. In this case, it can be felt that the worker is being cared for. But you haven't called yourselves a "worker party" in recent years. And that's a good thing. On the other hand, the revenue from ownership and enterprise has increased very well. If I come to the net wage rate, it has fallen from say and write from 1975 to 1994 61.5% to 48.5%. – These are numbers that really speak a clear language! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, if the net income from 1989 to 1993 has increased by about 20 to 25 percent and only the male employees and better-earning public employees have been able to grow to a higher degree, only every 19th of the net earnings in the lower 10-percent range are employed – with respect to 1993 8 500 S net income. Man, but every sixth woman is affected. That's what I'm asking myself: Where has the women's policy been pursued over the last 25 years since there have been social-democratic majority voting in this House? – It is always announced, but nothing is kept. And you are the ones who most betray the women, you take away more women than you have sent them to the other side in the past. [[to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Labour Inspectorate: In the field of civil law, 2 378 cases with a requested penalty of 27.3 million schilling were reported by the 18 733 infringements found. In 1994, 1 800 criminal proceedings were concluded with a criminal dimension of 17 million schillings. My question to you, Mr Federal Minister: What's going to be They do what will be the consequences Are you moving or what activities are you going to take, since there are no actions in the public sector and there is no equal treatment of civil or public employers in any way?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17820	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17841	Mr President. Minister! High house! If the problem of unemployment and employment has been raised here, I share the concerns that many of us are likely to have in this context. But one thing must be clear to us: The problem of unemployment is primarily an economic problem, and we have to do with the fact that we have for a long time seen a decoupling between economic growth and employment policy. And it is really you, Mr Social Minister, and it is thanks to our intentions in labour market policy that people who are in unemployment still have employment on measures, on training measures, on promotion measures, on active labour market policies and are not left alone in unemployment. The same is true of discrimination against women in the working world. We can try to put in place legislative measures, such as a law on equal treatment, which we have decided in this House and which is mainly due to the initiative of the SPÖ women, but at the end of the day, the entrepreneurs can employ only the economy. I am very sorry that Mrs Rossmann has now left the hall, because I would have liked to ask her how far she pays, for example, through the collective agreement, because every businessman is free to pay over the collective agreement. That means you should put things in the right light. In connection with the report on the social situation in 1994 and on labour inspection, Mr Oellinger today called for more prevention to be done to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases. I'm a bit surprised at his statement: We are talking about the 94 report here. As we all know, in 1994 the Workers' Protection Act was adopted here in the House. 1. In 1995 it became effective. In other words, all those measures to ensure that there will be more safety and health for people in the working world in the future, as it were, can only be carried from this point on. General accident insurance has also responded last year; it has increased in the area of accident prevention and has carried out safety-trust training. The FPÖ – some have now returned to this House ; [[Abg. Trenk: Many of you are not here either!]] Colleagues, I just wanted to do something to you – you can only say: Even through repetitions false claims are not correct. The Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse has bought a property from the city of Graz. Mr Seidinger has already done this today. This property is located on the site of a property already owned by the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse. In accordance with the legal provisions, projecting and planning of a new building were carried out because this new construction was simply necessary due to the use of numerous insured persons. Due to the financial situation, however, this new construction plan has now been resettled, and this property is currently being used as a decent parking lot. In the 1994 report on the social situation, pages 68 and the following concern health insurance financing. It can be read that in 1994 health insurance spent 33 billion schilling for the KRAZAF, 27 billion schilling for medical aid, 16 billion schilling for cures and cures. In the urgent question that we have been dealing with for a few hours now, there were 31 questions, of which, interestingly, there was no question about the development of medical fees. I'm very surprised. The Chamber of Physicians in Styria recently called for a five percent increase in fees during the negotiations. The fulfilment of this claim would mean that the ASVG health telephone in Styria would have to pay by 100 million schillings in this year rather than last year. But obviously this is not a matter relating to the financing of health insurance funds. Why, I wonder, doesn't that interest the FPÖ? . I would have liked to ask the questioner, Dr. Pumberger, who should know that. What does he think? How much did an average doctor's fee in Styria 1995 amount to? What did a doctor get from the health insurance company on average? Since he's not here now, I'll answer it: It was an average of 193,000 p.m. a. – So one can see from these fees that the health insurance doctors are not exactly those who deserve the least. But why, I wonder, is the FPÖ acting against health insurance institutions on every inappropriate occasion? [[Abg. Blünegger: With every match!]] Of course, on every inappropriate occasion. That's clear anyway. Mrs. Povysil has put something in the room today, as if the doctors were afraid of the competition. Now I'm wondering, Are the health insurance institutions perhaps in your way because they guarantee health care even in the event of an unconstitutional state, and because they do not make it possible to obtain insurance and social security? That's a question I'm very interested in. On the other hand, you are very likely always for so-called competition, for competition, namely insurance instead of compulsory insurance. These words are heard from you all the time. A competition for who? – Tell me who you are doing lobbyism for! Obviously for those who can judge it in this state, but not for the much-quoted little man you call again and again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The quality of your statements has not only been revealed by my predecessor, who clearly ignores democratic voting results. This is a suspicious sign. You've been able to explain how your concept of democracy is. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You are employed there! You don't trust yourself!]] The quality of your statements – I trust you, Mr President, don't worry – always makes itself felt in this House. Today, you are making an urgent request on a subject that you could have dealt with in the 1994 Social Report, in the financing of health insurance funds. You probably didn't even look at him, because otherwise you would have known that you could deal with it under the ordinary agenda. Or did you deliberately not want that? – It could be that you have less blockage time in the normal debate, so that you simply wanted to spend more time and thus what was agreed in the presidential to avoid making an urgent request. That would, of course, be a possibility. [[Abg. Gradwelt: That's it!]] It's definitely very suspicious. What has always occurred to me during the last sessions, I would like to say this today, because this is also typical today: Then, when it comes to dealing with the normal agenda, the daily political bread we have to treat here when it comes to these things, then Mr. Dr. Haider is no longer in the hall. [[Abg. Meisinger: We were there all day!]] He's there with the urgents, but after that we don't see him anymore. I think that is also a quality that we should talk about in this House. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: We will guide him that you may long for him.]] You can do this to him! But perhaps it should also be noted in the Minutes that it is mostly missing in normal debates; it is not the only time today, it has already been seen several times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Finally, after you have suffered the fate of not even being able to prepare for the emergency, I would like to say that you have been sitting here on the government bank – which has been seamlessly intertwined: I would first like to thank you and your ministry for the fact that the report is very clear and very beautiful, and secondly, I would like to thank you for the content of this report, which we can all be proud of.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17965	The next speech is by Mrs Pittermann. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17987	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Since we have already discussed in detail the social report, the various applications and the labour inspection report, I would like to confine myself to the Convention on the Prevention of Industrial Disorders of the International Labour Organisation Conference of June 1993. We agree that it is of utmost importance to prevent interference, to reduce the risks of accidents and to reduce their impact. We are all clear that such incidents in organizational errors, human failure, deviations from normal operating conditions, foreign effects or natural forces have their most common causes. The prevention of such disturbances is primarily a national task, but also one of the International Labour Organisation, the United Nations and WHO and other intergovernmental organizations. I believe that each of us believes that we can largely agree to this agreement. For economic reasons, because everyone is already very tired and the time is far advanced, I save myself to address all the articles. Austria, due to particularly excessive and precisely verified safety regulations, is in a happy position that there has never been a greater accident, such as about 20 years ago the dioxin accident in Seveso in Italy or less recently, namely in December 1984, the severe chemical accident in Bhopal in India. Unfortunately, the multinational companies, in particular the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, are happy to outsource the production of dangerous goods from their home countries to other countries. America and Switzerland in particular are leading in this respect. In my area of work, I often experience that in the case of medicines which are very toxic to workers, it is thought to remove them from the market. In most cases, however, multinational groups find countries with lower safety rules to produce medicines that would endanger the health of their own workers. Conversion to better safety facilities would not be in line with the cost-effectiveness of the drug, making it possible to outsource countries with lower standards. – All of this should be followed by such an agreement. But I would also like to remind you of the dangerous industries, such as the production of fireworks in the Third World, where children's health and lives in particular are at risk. The aim would be to prohibit the import of such goods, where the health of the population of the producing country is at risk, especially if production is linked to child labour. The lust for cracking colorful fireworks can never outweigh the suffering of the children who have to do this work. We are lucky to be living in a country with very strict security measures, which are also being reviewed in the greatest possible framework, so that we have only a few incidents and only a small amount of them. In many areas, we have much higher standards than this Convention requires. Some ministries have therefore advised to ratify the Convention. However, since we have to note that the national legal situation does not correspond to the Convention on all points, ratification is not possible. As the workers' representatives noted, there is currently no central body to identify hazardous installations. A comprehensive location policy is also not foreseen by law. Labour inspectorates and trade inspectorates are responsible for the verification of holdings according to the trade regulations. These perform their task so well that we do not necessarily need a central body. Since our safety standards are excellent, largely higher than in comparable countries, and we are also very proud of them, we welcome this agreement, but will not ratify it, since some of the institutions in us, since not necessary, are not present.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18050	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18071	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the special meeting on 30 October. We have discussed the situation of unemployment in Austria in January 1996, which we have called for or called for, and which has just taken place. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Request! Don't call! Not yet! Thank God!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Come on!]] And here I asked the Federal Minister to apologize to the Austrians for the failure of this federal government and for the punishment of the workers and pensioners. I don't take anything back from this call; it's just as up-to-date today. I also do not take back the fact that, as I said at the time, the situation and the economic situation in our state is not good. Today's debate on the social situation in 1994, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a year and a half too late. I believe that today we should actually discuss the social situation in 1995. The situation of the labour market is clear, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of May 1996, 207 879 unemployed were identified. Compared with May 1995, this is an increase of 7 percent. And this 7 percent increase in unemployment is certainly the fault of this federal government. If, for example, this upturn in the economy fails to reduce long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, I believe that a great many things have gone wrong in this policy. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not present now, and I can only point out this matter to him, to which I actually wanted to tell him where the mistakes lie, and I cannot discuss it accordingly with him now. As far as unemployment is concerned, we must say: The enticing legal situation invites us to abuse, and we must combat and prevent this abuse. We must make every effort to help people in the field of non-profit work. Unemployment is to be used for further training. It should also be a task of the labour market service to promote further training. An example: Unemployed secretaries who attend a continuing training course lose unemployment benefit even though they pay the course costs themselves. – We have such laws, and we should certainly change that. We also have an overhang of job-seekers compared to those offered. The competition for locals becomes unbearable, and also for the host workers living in Austria. We should strengthen the measures against foreign black workers and advance the fight against illegal workers. These would be tasks which the Minister of Social Affairs should actually present to us, rather than discussing the 1994 report on the social situation. It's lost time. Furthermore, we should certainly also look at the change in the legislation on holiday, which is dealt with in the report. I am fully aware of the request made by the Liberals, which means that, in terms of service conditions, aliquot can be consumed under six months of leave. It should be possible throughout the year to take aliquote holiday time instead of having to wait, as our law dictates, only after six months of vacation and if you have less than six months. These are provisions which the Social Minister and in this case the Federal Government should have changed. This request, which was dealt with in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, should have been implemented for a long time and should not have been put on a large-scale basis. The former Minister of Economic Affairs has said that the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises is an important concern to create jobs. I'll give him all the right. But Mr Ditz has, of course, thrown the towel, and it is also understandable that this policy of the current coalition government should be put toweled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where are future jobs with the aim of renewing our economy? - You're not here. A medium-sized policy will not be implemented. Although a wave of existence in all areas of the industrial economy and in the service sector is always in the headlines, it is not realized either. We do not need a signature action by the Economic and Social Union either. We do not need a petition against the flood of laws, because we could certainly decide on such measures in the National Council. Of course, I had prepared many arguments for my speech. I would like to tell the Federal Minister exactly what we have to do with free movement of workers and our Members: We want new wage curve models, we want new working time models, we want a redistribution of work by classic part-time employment, and we also want a part-time scheme with the modern name Job-sharing, in which several people can complete a job. We want flexible working hours, we want to align mobility at international level and various other points. Unfortunately, for reasons of time, because I also need to allow my colleagues to speak for one minute or another, I can no longer speak. But I would like to say one more thing: No one in this House is supposed to narrow down the constructive cooperation of the Members of the Liberals! And if you want to continue destroying jobs and not building up Austria's economic location, you have to expect our resistance!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18128	No one's been reported in the word anymore. A final word was not required by the rapporteur. We shall therefore proceed to the votes taken separately between the various requests. I note that the quorum is present. Firstly, we are voting on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of the report by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the social situation in 1994. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this announcement to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 158 of the additions. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree give a sign of approval. – I notice: This is decided by a majority. We shall continue to vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 159 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign. – I notice: Decision-making by a majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 160 of the supplements. Here, too, I may ask for a sign in the case of approval. – Decision-making shall be by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 161 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – I adopt unanimous decision-making. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on improving the employment opportunities for the disabled. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, Dr Kier, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application does not have the majority to decide. The next vote will be taken on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of the report by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the activity of the labour inspection in 1994 – III-15 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give an appropriate sign. . The application is decided by a majority. I shall vote next on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the report by the Federal Government on the 80th anniversary. The Convention on the Prevention of Industrial Disorders and Recommendation – III-5 of the Supplements – was adopted at the International Labour Conference. In the event of notice, I ask for a sign on this matter. . The request for information shall be decided by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades on the implementation of the 1980 budget. Conventions adopted at the International Labour Conference and the prevention of industrial disturbances. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 165 of the supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so for a sign. . I note that this request was decided by a majority. That concludes the vote. I will continue to consider the sentence in the Croquis that the application 9/A (E) to the Family Committee is assigned. I reserve a decision on this question. I cannot at the moment see why there should be a need for allocation. If there is anything to do here, I expressly announce it. [[S. 214]] 9. Point First reading of motion 140/A by Mr Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrond comrades concerning a federal law with which the housing public utility law, BGBl. 1979/139 i.d. F. BGBl. 1993/800, (WGG) is amended President Dr Heinz Fischer: We're on the 9th. Agenda item. This is the first reading of the 140/A motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Firlinger and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the housing law of non-profit. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The maximum speaking time is 40 minutes. However, it will not be necessary to refer to this border. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18321	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On the occasion of the first reading of our proposal for an initiative to amend the Law on non-profit-making of housing, we want to draw attention to a problem which is already, but in the foreseeable future, a very sensitive matter, or will concern: This extremely sensitive matter is cooperative housing, which has often given rise to rich discussions. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say at the outset that, in the context of our legal system, there is serious concern about both the practice of property security and the practice of property creation in particular in the housing sector. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that we are dealing with cooperative apartments is, I say, one of the greatest dizzinesss of our legal system. The practice is that the non-profit housing system is reduced to a rental right, instead of ensuring co-ownership for the inhabitants of such apartments. The practices in practice are nothing but a reflection of false facts. With a modern word, it could be described as "the etiquette gap". Ladies and gentlemen! The central point of my criticism is the term "gap-out" which refers to the surplus of the cooperatives' revenue, which, after full financing of the apartment, initially forms the conservation reserve and which subsequently flows into the reserve capital of a cooperative. It should also be noted that the reimbursement of the conservation reserve is justified only in the rarest cases. Why? – Simple: The cooperatives are constantly contributing to this conservation reserve, and it is therefore – in most cases I say – not to see that it is being re-instructed in the end. In view of this fact, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is quite clear: The housing cooperatives are becoming more and more rich, and the cooperative tenants – the word "cooperative tenants" alone must be broken down on the tongue! – get poorer and poorer. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Abg. Eder: But that's little condolences!]] Why are these getting poorer and poorer? – That makes sense: There is nothing left to them in the final effect, no property right, no collective participation, but only the lapidary realization that, I would say, nothing has been done unless we are generous or – if we are generous – not much. The cooperative tenant lived in the apartment, but he didn't do anything afterwards. [[Abg. Eder: But he's already used to it!]] He's doing the same thing, Mr. Cot. I know you don't like to hear that. But then you can express yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! The concept of "outflow gain" alone is a very appealing word. Even the concealment by the semantic term "outflow profit" proves that the cooperative housing owners do not pursue their housing owners with serious intentions. I understand, for example, the provision and granting of co-ownership, and whether it be just a collective one, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] If the Vienna Town Councillor Werner Faymann destroys the outflow profits with the name "Körberlgelgeld", ladies and gentlemen, because the people concerned usually don't know what that means anyway, then that is white cynicism for me. I don't think that's a better word. I say it the way I feel it: This is white cynicism! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If the same Mr. Faymann now sends himself, from the particular point of view of the Vienna election campaign, to distribute part of this "carry money" – partly as a gift of election – then it is for me an expression of a completely misguided idea of possession. [[Abg. Scheibner: In this basket is no pastry of "anker bread"!]] There is a lot to be done in the Körberl, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I would like to make it quite clear to you and ask you to extend this to the Councillor Werner Faymann: Not Mr Faymann, not the Vienna SPÖ or the management of GESIBA or any other party-related housing cooperative, have the right to find out about what is happening with these funds, but it is in the sole interest of the housing cooperatives that the contributions financed by them are used at the earliest possible time to justify a right of co-ownership. Ladies and gentlemen! The demands we liberals make are quite clear and transparent. We demand that the right of ownership be automatically transferred to the housing cooperatives after full funding. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] After funding, therefore, it is clear that only the conservation contributions should be made and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. The maintenance fees are paid and then point! Some 750 000 people live in Austria, 10 percent of the total Austrian population, 400,000 cooperatives. The Examining Association clearly says something different, but the Examining Association has a party position. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked myself very carefully, we have really researched deeply. The Vienna City Councillor Faymann also speaks of 750 000 people who are affected by 400 000 cooperatives. All these 750 000 people throughout Austria are of course of the § 14 para. 7 of the housing law on public utility, and they are excluded from any form of property right. They will then be asked to the cash register for a second time if they seek legal ownership in the light of paid building costs and already destroyed annuities. I already know that the counter-argument is that you have to pay for 60 years. But the durations are quite different. If a person has paid 30, 35 or perhaps 40 years and then strives for property rights, he usually has to pay a second time. Something can't go wrong! This must be clearly and clearly shown and addressed in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! These 750 000 inhabitants are the real owners and not the cooperatives! The inhabitants are at least the future true owners, the true property candidates. The ruling legal situation, however, allows the true owners to be kept by the wrong ones on the tape. That is indeed an unbearable state. If I speak of owners and property candidates, I would also like to explain to you the numbering material that is available to me. I don't have a taferl, but a little poster. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's blue, though!]] It's light blue, and it's unmistakable. This poster shows the expected development of the apartments financed in the future. I'm going to make the table here, then you can follow it a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen! The development begins, as you can see here, with financed apartments in the order of 50 000. At the beginning in 1994 there were just under 50 000 apartments financed. In the year 2 015 it will be about 310 000 apartments according to my graphics. The 50 000 apartments that are now financed correspond to an equivalent of... [[Abg. Eder: Was the housing promotion paid back?]] Yeah, it's all completely cleared up. In any case, Mr President, housing aid was paid back. [[Further call of the Abg. Eder.]] These 50,000 apartments are equivalent to 25 billion schilling, calculated with caution. And this amount, ladies and gentlemen, will keep the true owners away. That's reality. There's nothing to point out about this at all! The proceeds contained in them, resulting from the transfers made, are still small now, but they are small because the time of full funding is still relatively close to the past. The emphasis, ladies and gentlemen, is on the word "yet". The famous basket money is increasing rapidly. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where's the basket?]] Where's the basket? – Faymann has the basket, and he distributes from it. The famous basket money actually increases every day. I just want to make one estimate here. At present, we estimate the basket money to be between 300 million and half a billion. It is important to observe the development. In 2000, as already in four years, 100 000 of the 400,000 homes will be financed, i.e. a quarter. And then the order of magnitude looks quite different. Then 50 billion schillings in building materials will be financed, and thus 50 billion schillings will be avoided from the true owners. The "Corrugated Money Fund" will be spent in four years with an amount in the order of at least one billion schilling. I'd say, This is a very lucrative business. The question is: For whom? [[Abg. Eder: Who really?]] For the one who has now begun to distribute, my colleague. [[Abg. Eder: Who is this?]] Of course, the housing cooperative. [[Abg. Eder: There are different!]] Of course there are different. There are over 200 in Austria. We can focus on all of this. That is why there is also a first reading. [[Abg. Eder: Mr Colleague! Is that a lot of cooperatives?]] Of course! [[Abg. Eder: You are wrong-informed!]] No, we're not misinformed! I now come to a very important point. The cooperative gap finds its continuation in the fact that most of the non-profit builders do not operate the housing within the framework of a genuine cooperative, but rather operate a company partnership. [[Abg. Eder: Now it's about a braid!]] It's a box construction. Several companies with several legal forms are involved. In many cases, these are companies with the legal form of GesmbH or AG, but there are also small cooperatives in between who work very profit-oriented in the protected areas. But the other must pay! And this situation is very counterproductive of a genuinely favourable housing creation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Eder: That's nonsense!]] This is not nonsense, we need to discuss it. The cards must be disclosed! [[Abg. Eder: The people live in the apartments!]] I know that there are, of course, also black housing cooperatives, and there are even blue ones. [[Abg. Eder: A newly founded!]] She's not that new anymore! This is the result of a number of parties. But it seems that the representatives of the Socialist Group are particularly strongly involved in this. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say something about this. [[Abg. Eder: One minute!]] These years of practice have led the construction industry to continue to be forced to provide its services at non-cost construction costs. This means that construction costs for cooperative projects amount to up to 40 percent of the total cost of construction, but only 15 percent for private builders. – Live the difference! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] No, there are very different statistics, colleagues. [[Abg. Eder: Hazelsteiner knows that!]] Hazelsteiner knows that. I also had a good talk with him, Mr. Colleague. [[Further call of the Abg. Eder.]] But you are resisting so much, and you feel that you are going to be so upset that I can imagine that in the discussions on parties, in the second reading and in the Committee on your part, there will probably be little productiveness. – But I’m excited what’s going to come from the other side. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say something: In the property education sector, real reform approaches are needed in Austria. There is not only the basic need for living but also a basic need for ownership. - That's a central sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do I say that? – Property is proven to be cheaper to the individual than rent. Of course we will also need rental apartments. It would be an illusion to believe that everything can go into ownership. But let's say the truth! When it comes to rental apartments, you also require rents, and do not call them building aid, maintenance and construction contributions and annuities, because that is unfortunate! Tell me it's rent! And please do not hide behind the cooperative idea, which is constantly abused in a disgraceful way. – On the other hand, my criticism is directed. This must be changed by law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Eder: The minute is over!]] The minute is over. I still have a lot to say. However, Mr Moser already interprets me with the nuller. [[Abg. Eder: Double zero!]] That is why I would like to conclude by saying: If we make a pure table in this House of Austria in the housing sector, we implement this reform, we make this important step in the housing community law and create clear categories: Co-operative apartment, property and apartment for rent. Then much of the current excitement and confusion with regard to legal certainty will be resolved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18649	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I note, as a reservation at the end of the previous vote, that the request made by Mr Volker Kierund comrades concerning the restructuring of family transfers within the meaning of a request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs is assigned to the Family Committee. [[S. 210, last para.]] The next speaker is Mr Eder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18685	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the occasion of the first reading of the Liberal Forum on the amendment of the Law on non-profit-making of housing, the contribution of my previous speaker has already resulted in the usual debate on housing policy. This is why I say "usually" because the discussion can hardly be surpassed by this case – I say it quite consciously and with full intention – in hypocrisy. Under the comfortable, forward-looking populist cover of "property formation" in fact, it is always sawed on the foundations of the common good and its abolition is exclusively for the benefit of private interests. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you here that the historical roots of the non-profit construction associations go back over 150 years. They come from a time when the working population had to house in unimaginable housing in the rapidly growing agglomerations of the industrial set-up. The fact that these living conditions in Austria are significantly better today is certainly not due to the achievements of liberal, unlimited capitalism, but to a substantial part of the social housing which is under discussion. Those who wish to question this or even question its effects, Mr Firlinger, ultimately close their eyes to the current reality of the housing market. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's 20 years back!]] Of course, the question of the one-sided legal claim of the tenants on the transfer of their rental apartments to property is of course being subject to widespread public opinion for a long time now. This is a development dependent on the situation in the housing market, which has been taken into account by the corresponding legislative changes in recent years. For private profit interests, that is not enough what is legitimate in a democracy. Of course, there will always be private profit interests in the housing business. However, Mr Firlinger, there is also a legitimate interest in social policy in the presence of a sufficiently high mass of manoeuvrants in social rental apartments. Social democracy is in no way opposed to housing property – I really want to stress that. Those who claim the opposite here have not been concerned with the social democrats' residential programmes. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The current proposal seems to be a momentary change in the housing law of non-profit, but one does not forget, as it were, in the small print to call for a "comprehensive reform, especially for the housing law on non-profit-making". [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is the beginning!]] Without a doubt, there can certainly be no standstill in the area of housing public utility. Decisive developments have been made over and over again in the past – I remember the question of reserve capital – and they will not be left in the future. However, the discussion is led by many to one-sided and, in my opinion, consciously; the latter have Show you here with a little poster. In this case too, you are acting in this way. If the application is made more precisely, then its one-dimensionality becomes clear quickly. For example, the tenants of a non-profit building association's home within a period of 50 years, which corresponds to the shortest depreciation period following the WGG, make significantly lower rental interest payments than tenants of a freely financed or a previously funded, favourably repaid apartment. However, the claim for the justification of housing property in these non-frequently private areas is not, of course, raised by the applicants. In particular, it can also be demonstrated for private apartments after a certain period of time that the basic, construction and financing costs are covered by the payments made by the tenants. It turns out that the tenants of a freely funded, freely rented house pay by far the most. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is a free invention!]] Mr Firlinger! Now let us consider those 360,000 old - rent apartments that were built privately before 1919. For these apartments, it is now possible to assume that they have been repaid since the 1920s and that the basic, construction and financing costs are covered. Are such apartments included in your application? - No! They should not be transferred to property. You want to leave them in the private area! Of course, these are not included in your request! In view of such forward-looking intentions, it should only be noted that the Liberal Forum's application does not take any account of what is to be done in the meantime in the event of a change of tenants, except for the reason of a new financial and privileged shift. In the current fluctuation, a change of tenants takes place twice during the period of 50 years mentioned. This is not at all taken into account in the application. However, according to the above-mentioned assumptions, those tenants who had rented the apartment after the full financing of the reasonable basic and construction costs would benefit from the over-fitting claim. This problem would be further aggravated by its strange privilege by the proposed authorisation for the early repayment of loans and any own resources of non-profit associations. – That means in good German: If someone lived in an apartment for 25, 30 years, then moved out and moved in again, he would suddenly be given the apartment after a short rent. – That’s your request, that’s nonsense, and you can’t agree to that. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As mentioned above, social democracy will certainly not shut down serious discussions about the development of housing public utility. We never did that. The emphasis, however, is on "serious" and on "development" and not on "promoting" and "annihilation", as is the case in your application. In this sense, we will also come up with concrete proposals in the near future on the outcome of the non-profit construction associations. It should also be discussed about the design of rights of access, for example in Vienna. But all these considerations must not forget the performance and current rights of existence of the non-profit builders. After all, I now also call a few figures, the non-profit builders have completed no fewer than 22,000 new apartments in 1995, which means an increase compared to the previous year by around 20 percent. – Show me once a private builder who could, or did it in the living area. Compared to 1990, the number of apartments handed over has grown by no less than 70 percent. 22,000 apartments – I say to the illustration – mean a city in the size of St. Pölten. A similarly significant development can be foreseen for the current year. After all, this also results in the security of about 60 000 jobs. That's where I ask you: If the private build as wildly and as cheaply as you say, why do the community have to build so much? However, it seems that this does not work for the private, and therefore we thank God for the non-profit housing sector, which provides the people with apartments properly and cost-effectively and at the same time creates jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Mr Firlinger! These are the facts. They need to take note of whether you want or not! Before questioning the use of the common good directly or indirectly, it should be borne in mind that non-profit builders are, among other things, required by law to fulfil the tasks of the common good. They are not free entrepreneurs, they are non-profit builders. They build housing for a group of people to be favoured and develop their construction activities also in economically weak regions, where no private investor is involved, because the population is financially weak there. They're totally sausaged, like the people live there, but it's not sausage for us! It was the representatives of liberalism and it seems to be still sausage! That is clearly how it behaves! Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, we have to deal with a proposal from the Liberal Forum, which we certainly cannot give our assent. In recent years, the representatives of the private housing market, ladies and gentlemen, have shown impressively that they are not able to provide the applicant for housing, who does not have particularly high financial resources, with guarantees similar to those of the public. Therefore, let us be careful in the interests of a responsible and social social policy, and let us not throw these basic values overboard under the upper term of liberality! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18767	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18788	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the case of superficial considerations, the Liberal Forum's application for a change to the Law on non-profit accommodation seems plausible. If the mortgage loans are paid out, the apartment is to be transferred to the owner's property. The rent is removed, and there is only more minor maintenance or administrative costs. – This demand, ladies and gentlemen, sounds logical, and above all political parties who profess to be owned should actually support such demands. We must note, however, that the whole of the housing market is a hugely sensitive area. We cannot judge and organise this market in accordance with the traditional rules of commerce, which are based on supply and demand. The current stable market would get out of the joints very quickly, mostly to the detriment of the more socially weak. Ladies and gentlemen! For young families in particular, housing problems are key factors today, and young families have to spend large portions of the funds available to them for housing. Good housing conditions for a young family are the crucial basis of life. Many conflicts arise from the fact that two generations have to live together in a narrow space. Living is therefore more than just a market economy-oriented subject area. Living is a profoundly sensitive social and family policy area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A forward-looking housing policy must take particular account of these sensitive factors. The current offer of rental apartments – my previous speaker has already pointed out this fact – guarantees a kind of generation contract. The capital created by the housing cooperatives after the end of the loan period by the continued rents, which is so strongly criticized by the Liberal Forum, does not flow into the company as a profit, but must be reintroduced to the housing cycle. This means that new apartments are built and given to those tenants who have the chance to get apartments with affordable rents offered. If, as requested by the Liberal Forum, these rents no longer apply, the money for such new projects in the field of social housing is missing. If we go this liberal way, we have the effect that older tenants, who are generally improved financially, have low housing costs, but we do not have an affordable offer for young people who are not so well-founded. Responsible housing policy, my honours However, ladies and gentlemen, very favourable living conditions must be created for this group of interests, Mr Firlinger. The responsibility in this area means that, in particular, these young people who do not yet have the advantage of having a well-funded home should also be taken up. We from the Austrian People's Party strongly acknowledge the possibility to transfer apartments to property. There are good models here, such as in Lower Austria, which will certainly be known to you, but a fair price must be paid for it. My previous speaker, Mr Eder, has already pointed out the discrepancy in the request, namely that he leaves absolutely irregular what happens when several tenants rent an apartment during the available period. The rents that flow to the cooperatives in this way, or the capital involved by a possible sale here, are available as a mass of manoeuvring for social housing. Ladies and gentlemen! The housing cooperatives are very strictly controlled as this capital arrives. In their annual accounts, they have a clear record of what happens to this money, Mr Firlinger. Any unassembled funds must be taxed after five years. No housing cooperative will break these funds, and the legislator will pay very close attention to them here. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current law on housing public utility provides in itself very good conditions for a functioning social housing market. We should think about improvements at any time and of course is very desirable. In this sensitive area, however, it is necessary to choose an informed procedure so that there may be no greater damage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18863	The next speaker is Mr Schöll. - Please, you have the floor. Speaking time: seven more minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18885	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am pleased that the Liberal Forum is actually joining our parliamentary initiatives in recent years to reform the housing law and property law. In this context, I refer to the numerous proposals, including proposals for initiative, which we have already tabled here in the House. Unfortunately – Dr. Schwimmer as Chairman of the Building Committee is not here – I have to say that still requests – even in the legislative period here – have not been dealt with in the Building Committee until now. I can only ask you to act here soon. Otherwise, it will remain with pure lip confessions. If Mr Eder – he did it before – is serious, we are also willing to talk seriously about it and see that there are positive changes here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, not on the basis of the current application alone by Mr Firlinger, because that has not yet been completely erased. I can't now suddenly turn this into housing property on all sides. I have to consider where it is reasonable, in which region where people can afford it et cetera. For they also have to carry all the maintenance on their own, for which the Community must now stand up. I also hope, Mr Firlinger, that this is not just an initiative – it has been pointed out to Vienna a few times and to Mayor Häupl – which is being launched because in Vienna the elections are at the door and one thinks that one should actually do something about this subject. But I welcome the fact that the Liberal Forum is now starting to deal with it. On the matter itself: With regard to the reduction of rents for non-profit-making households, we have already made numerous applications. I hope that, in Vienna, there are already efforts that can be made in the interests of the common people to do the same. However, I miss a number of other essential things that should be taken into account – if you are already making amendments to the housing law on non-profit-making. I therefore recall some of our demands – I don't have so much time that I can now explain everything to you –: The reserves of the housing cooperatives belong, where they are not needed for the ongoing maintenance, rapidly dissolved. We have seen in the Court of Auditors' Committee, Mr Eder, unfortunately you were not there, which does not all the non-profit housing cooperatives. Some do, and this must be mentioned in praise, and this has also been noted positively in the Court of Auditors' report, but unfortunately some do not. Some even take a smooth stand over the housing law of public utility and violate it. I hope that this will be taken seriously by cooperatives. Another demand that I would like to remind you here: More subject promotion, ladies and gentlemen, instead of just the promotion of objects and only the investment of money in the anonymous cooperatives. In this context, we should also consider the extent to which there are opportunities here – Mr Eder nodds – to promote and underline more private initiatives. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is also about greater transparency in the procurement system. We already know – we have been able to find out in the Court of Auditors’ Committee – that: The one cooperative is stricting itself properly, which builds cheaply, there is also a need for dwellings; others are not strict again, the horticultural the resources, the horten the funds even in the form that loans are received, although sufficient funds would be available, and securities are purchased for them. All of this was regulated, not that anything is pulled out and said: Ho ruck, now we want housing property. - That's not how it will be, I think. Of course, I would also like to point out, in this context, what I have already criticized on the occasion of the decision-making in the third place. WÄG, where I have pointed out that cooperatives have once again been able to address themselves, namely that there are also reductions in the remuneration of the managing directors of non-profit cooperatives, in relation to the contributions to the service class IX, i.e. to the salary of the head of the section. It wouldn't be bad yet if the counter-performance was right. It is worse where multiple references – the subject has reached us today in a different context – are allowed and the pension is, of course, based on these references. It should also be discussed in this context, and it should really be a general solution, which gives impetus to the construction industry in particular, as Mr Eder has already said. In this context, of course, private building cooperatives should also be given the opportunity to exist, because the savings package, as we call it, will soon be unable to build at all or to set up private initiatives. I already know that they are more profit-oriented than the non-profit-making housing cooperatives. But we should take more account of this and promote it at a time when private initiatives are concerned. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: It should not only remain in the event of announcements, it should not just remain in the face of consolation, and this important issue should not be neglected at all. Mr Eder knows for sure that, in the course of the right of residence, we will have to deal with the temporary lease contracts which are now under way in the spring at the latest. At the latest in autumn, this whole package should be dealt with, together with those unresolved issues of property rights. I would like to refer once again to the extraordinary and ordinary administration, where it is playing its part, to minority rights, to inadministrability in some areas. – You should treat all of this. Ladies and gentlemen! The greater the consensus in this area in the House, the more it will be taken up by the population, the sooner we will put off those things to which we liberals cannot confess in the present form. Above all, we can contribute to the rapid elimination of the shortage of housing in Austria, which unfortunately still exists.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18958	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18979	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal put forward by the Liberals to amend the law on non-profit accommodation is a possible way, but in our opinion the wrong path, Mr Firlinger. It is the wrong way because, in our view, it means the exit from the public utility, because it means the exit from a system which, at least in Austria, allows us to a limited extent, sometimes to a far too small extent, but which allows us access to housing. If we are talking about how we could reorganise this system, so that it brings more justice, then we believe that the promotion compensation should be the priority, which would not work in this sense, as you suggest, that one should be freed from the burdens and become the owner after financing the housing, but that it would work in such a way that these usual tests and social selection criteria should be abandoned in access to the promoted housing building, and that a tax should be required for the stay in the promoted and non-profit housing in line with the income, namely compensation, of the people living in it. In our view, this would be a more just and cooperative system. Because with one you are right: that the current model of cashing money from cooperative tenants is in principle not quite compatible with cooperatives. But your proposal, Mr Firlinger, is, of course, even less compatible with a cooperative and non-profit organization. I think you should really consider this path, this entry into the community. For what does it mean, quite consistently thought to the end, Mr Firlinger, your proposal? If you say that in cooperatives you can become the owner if you have financed the apartment, then I have to ask the question: Why not also as a simple tenant, if you live somewhere in an apartment, then if the apartment is financed – in Vienna this is in almost all old buildings – no longer pay rent, but only the maintenance contribution? [[Abg. Eder: All!]] If we want to remain consistent, we can not only limit this system to non-profit apartments, but we must generalize it. That would be a consistent way, and then we could talk about it. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's not what it meant!]] But I think you, Mr Firlinger, probably did not mean that you did not want to understand that. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I didn't say that either!]] One is about the private housing market, which is obviously to be left untouched, but I think we should also be able to talk about it if we want to look at the housing market as a whole and the housing area including the non-profit area. I think that we should take a closer look at what orientation we want to take in this area. Our model is the compensation, because we believe it is the fairer system, which would be extended not only to the non-profit sector but also to the private housing sector, to the area of municipal apartments, and we believe it would make a little more sense to think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19043	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 140/A to the Committee on Construction. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (20 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Arrangement of Social Security Relations in relation to the Province of Quebec (164 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (103 of the Supplements): Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Canada on Social Security (178 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (104 of the Supplements): Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on Social Security (179 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (105 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on social security (180 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (118; and 118 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Security (181 of the Supplements) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (119 and 119 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Social Security (182 of the Supplements) between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 16. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (120 and 120 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Security (183 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (121 and 121 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security (184 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (122 and 122 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Turkish Republic on Social Security (185 of the Supplements) 19. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (123 and 123 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Tunisian Republic on Social Security (186 of the Supplements) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (124 and 124 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on Social Security (187 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19211	We now come to points 10 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government templates. (20 of the supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Arrangement of Social Security Relations in relation to the Province of Quebec (164 of Supplements), (103 of the supplements): Additional Agreements to the Agreement with Canada (178 of the Supplements) and (104 of the supplements): Additional Agreements to the Agreement with the United States of America (179 of the Supplements) – both in the field of social security – and (105 of the supplements): Agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany (180 of the Supplements), (118 and 118 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between Austria and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (181 of the Supplements), (119 and 119 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (182 of the Supplements) between Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, further (120 and 120 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between Austria and the Federal Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (183 of the Supplements), (121 and 121 of the supplements): termination of the Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia (184 of the Supplements), (122) and 122 of the supplements): termination of the Agreement with the Turkish Republic (185 of the Supplements), (123 and 123 of the supplements): termination of the Agreement with the Tunisian Republic (186 and 123 of the Supplements) and (124 and 124 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia (187 of the Supplements) – all on social security. The rapporteur on item 10 is Mr Dr. Drinkl. I would ask him to open the debate and report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19267	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I will return the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (20 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Arrangement of Social Security Relations in relation to the Province of Quebec. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs adopted the draft government proposal at its meeting on 29 November. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. The draft law was adopted unanimously during the vote. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee therefore proposes that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law presented by the Federal Government (20 of the supplements).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19293	The rapporteur on points 11 to 13 is Mr Dietachmayr. – I ask for your reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19309	Mr President. High house! I bring the report on the Government Template (103 of the Supplements): Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Canada in the field of social security. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has the government template at its meeting on 11 November. ==References====External links== At the time of approval of this Agreement, the Committee adopted special federal laws within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG is not necessary for the transfer of the content of the contract to the national legal order. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and Canada on Social Security (103 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. I also report on the Government Template (104 of the Supplements): Additional agreements on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America in the field of social security. At its meeting of 11 December, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs also adopted the draft government proposal. ==References====External links== The Committee also appeared to the adoption of special federal laws within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Agreement. 2 B-VG not required. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Additional Agreement on the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States of America on Social Security (104 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. Finally, I shall bring the report on the Government Template (105 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on social security. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs also adopted the draft government proposal at its meeting of 11 March. ==References====External links== The Committee also did not appear to be required to adopt special federal laws in the event of the adoption of this Agreement. I'm making a print error correction for this. The written report shall contain a printed error at the request of the Committee to the National Council. I am therefore correcting as follows: As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council: The conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on social security is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19376	The rapporteur on points 14 to 20 is Dr. Feurstein. I ask for the report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19391	High house! I will first report on 181 of the supplements. This is the government template (118 and 118 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on social security. The Committee requests approval of the termination of this Agreement. I also report on 182 of the supplements. This is the government template (119 and 119 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Social Security between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In this case too, the Committee requests that the National Council decide: The termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Security is hereby approved. I also report on 183 of the supplements. This is the government template (120 and 120 of the supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on Social Security. In this case too, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs requests that the National Council decide to approve the termination of this Agreement. In addition, I report on 184 of the supplements. This is the Government template (121 and 121 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security. In this case too, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs proposes that the National Council: The termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security is hereby approved. In addition, I report on 185 of the supplements. This concerns the Government template (122 and 122 of the Supplements): Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Turkish Republic on Social Security. In this case too, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs requested that the National Council: The termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Turkish Republic on Social Security is hereby approved. I also report on 186 of the supplements. This is the Government template (123 and 123 of the Supplements) concerning the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Tunisian Republic on Social Security. In this case too, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs proposes that the National Council: The termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Tunisian Republic on Social Security is hereby approved. Finally, I report on 187 of the supplements, i.e. the Government template (124 and 124 of the Supplements) concerning the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on Social Security. In this case too, it is requested that the National Council: The termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on Social Security is hereby approved. I would ask you to deal with these proposals and reports and to vote in accordance with the requests.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19474	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. We are going into the debate. Mr Dr Kier spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19501	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have spoken for a single reason, in order to repeat from this pult what I have already done in the committee which has discussed these matters. My speech refers to the termination of social agreements with the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and so on in the sense of Mr Feurstein's report; I do not want to repeat this now. What is the crucial point from my point of view? – The termination of these social agreements is a result of the political agreement of the governmental parties, which has then found its various legislative defeats under the title of savings package or under the Structural Adjustment Act. In the context of the debates and announcements carried out, we were informed that the removal of the family allowance for children of people living in these affected republics would save 300 million schilling in the current budget year and almost 600 million schilling in 1997. It has now become apparent that the claimed savings in 1996 – i.e. the 300 million mentioned above – was not possible and feasible at any time. It is clear from the discussion in the Committee that at the time when the claim was made that 300 million schilling could be saved by deleting in these republics the children of members of members of the Austrian population who live in these republics had to be clear to the responsible party that this figure cannot be reached, because the termination of these international agreements is, in the most favourable case, provided for a three-month notice period for the cancelling Republic of Austria and, in particular, the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Tunisia, a termination of these agreements prior to the 31st century. 12. Not possible at all in 1996. For this reason, and when calculating the effects, and taking into account the earliest possible effectiveness of the terminations in those States where the termination was made even before the 31st century. 12. In 1996 it is possible that at the best possible amount of around 60, perhaps 70 million schillings will be saved by family aid not to be paid. This is the objective outcome of the legal situation before which it is based. This is not a random calculation result; rather, the reason for this is that these intergovernmental agreements, these international treaties can only be terminated in accordance with the rules of the respective Treaty and the rest of international law, and therefore it was not possible to achieve a greater savings volume at any time. The discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs has also clearly shown that the knowledge of these circumstances was, of course, complete and complete in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So anyone who has dealt with this question in detail and with it responsibly had to know or know that the claim that 300 million can be saved on this path in 1996 is objectively incorrect. It is a need to maintain from this point of view what the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, had to know or knew in political responsibility: namely, that the claim that 300 million schilling will be saved under this title is wrong. He therefore helped in his ministerial responsibility as the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that an objectively false federal budget was decided in the dimension of 250 million schilling, that the public was informed objectively wrong, in other words that people had been led astray about the true situation. I therefore think this is extremely worrying, because I simply cannot believe that it can be the style of a federal government to take such measures as are partly under high pressure by cancelling international treaties. I would like to point out that the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina is currently in a relatively stable state only because IFOR troops are on its territory. We know the problem of what is now the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the so-called rest of Yugoslavia. We know the situation of Macedonia, we know the difficulties of democratic development in Croatia, we know what problems Slovenia has. And to all these states, we announce our entire social agreements, with the only objective of avoiding the payment of family allowances. We therefore assume that, at the same time, the mutual obligations in the field of health protection and pension law must be terminated. And all this in order to achieve a savings target for the year 1996, which was misstated in the budget and in the public statements! It is a real need for me to say in the minutes of the House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has helped in his ministerial responsibility that we have been misinformed here that there are objectively false approaches in the budget, which were already objectively wrong at the time when they were put into space as opportunities, because at that time the termination periods of these social agreements would not have made possible an earlier dissolution of the obligation to pay family assistance. The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has political sole responsibility here – and that is clearly expressed – I attach great importance to this, and this has also been clearly demonstrated in the Committee's discussion, has done something in his ministerial responsibility, which would in normal circumstances lead any other Federal Minister to draw the consequences of his irrational actions and to make his office available. For if someone is either unable to look over his ministry, and does not know what it is about in a question, or knows it, but the colleagues in the Federal Government are misinformed, then there can only be one consequence if it comes out: that he makes his office available. I do not ask – I do not want to be misunderstood here. I am not counting among the categories of Members who deliberately demand resignations, but I am objectively describing the facts and, in my view, a person of honour would know what he has to do. In addition, the question of political responsibility is that of a one-sided termination of intergovernmental social agreements, with a clear objective of saving between 20 and 40 million schilling in individual cases among the countries concerned in the Balkans. It is hardly possible to count on countries that have really different problems than we have, in countries that we have been sending, for years, since the problem there, about "neighborly in need" truck columns in order to alleviate the most bitter need. Such countries we announce total social agreements! The fact that this also has implications such as illegality of equality, such as the attachment to citizenship on social issues that we cannot understand, I only mention in this respect completeness. But against the background of what I have said here, these are only minor problems. In reality, we face countries that have to struggle for democracy, in which democracy does not have a secure future in all that can be hoped for with a happy heart. We also worsen the situation for our own citizens, because under these mutual health insurance aspects there is also the rules on holiday health certificates. This will not have an effect in the summer due to the notice periods. But first of all, the certainty that has been spread in the Committee is that these states will conclude new social agreements with us, if we have unilaterally cancelled, without family support, with great probability, but there is no complete security. Secondly, we do not deal with our neighbours or with distant neighbours as one of the richest countries in the European Union! I have had many conversations with people affected, including friends in Hungary who are not directly affected, but who may have a better sense of such a problem than other countries, because they are also in a construction phase. You told me: We would like to have the concerns you have. You are so rich that you do not find yourselves in your wealth. On the other hand, we are under construction. If one wants only the decoration and claim of a certain savings effect, namely 300 million, although one has objectively known that it will at best be 70 million schilling, to proceed in this way, then it is so worrying that I did not want to hide here. I believe that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs would be well advised if, in the shortest possible time, he gave a suitable, acceptable and truthful public statement, why he acted in his ministerial responsibility as I described it here. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19579	The next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19601	Mr President. High house! I mean, the accusations made by Dr Kier, whom he has already made in committee, are immense. For weeks we have all discussed budgetary savings, and we have discussed the whole social problem very thoroughly today. Every cut in this area is bitter, regardless of whether the affected people or children live domestically or abroad. However, I would like to say, correctly: Although both parents are Austrians and children live abroad, they cannot obtain the family allowance. Mr Mertel pointed out in the Committee on Social Affairs that if children are not in the household, for example, but are in a home, they cannot also receive family allowances. We're really sorry. But in connection with the savings package – and 100 billion schillings are a lot of money – we have also announced that family allowances for children living abroad are no longer paid. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's no reason to call false numbers!]] In this context, I would also like to mention the following: I asked myself in the family ministry, and I was told that there is no comparable performance by other Western European countries. I would also like to stress that the total amount of family aid has not already been paid, but only two thirds of the amount, i.e. approximately 900 p. I would also like to point out the figures in Germany. For example, the very rich Germany pays for the first child 10 DM, for the second child 25 DM. That's not a comfort. But I think if we want to save, then we have to save in all areas; that is bitter, but we know that, and 601 million schillings are not decoration. I don't know in which categories you think, but it's not a decoration. I say that because you said it was for the decoration that the contracts were terminated. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But that's why Federal Minister Schüssel does not need to say the untruth!]] They know that there has been talks with all the countries. Some countries were not at all ready to hold these talks. They also know that sub-areas cannot be terminated and therefore, in general, the contracts must be terminated. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This was already known in March!]] However, you also have to admit - you have also done so - that, since these contracts include parts of pension law or insurance law, it is in the interests of both parties, both in the interest of the Contracting States, such as Turkey, Tunisia or the successor countries of Yugoslavia, as well as in the interest of Austria, that an agreement should be reached as quickly as possible. I should also like to remind you that the Social Committee has also guaranteed the Social Ministers and all the parties that there will be no unconstitutional state, but that new bilateral social agreements will be concluded as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19665	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19686	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the advanced period, I would like to address this point in a little more detail. I know that the subject is very hard on you. But it also puts a great burden on other people, namely those who are actually burdened by this termination of the social agreements. That is why I ask you to consider what you will decide here and today. I think that what you decide to do is simple and simple - to tell you that briefly - to be blamable. It is a national and international Blamage, when Austria, as the third-richest country in the EU, explains, for example, Tunisia – in order to get out of one of the countries: We can no longer afford family allowances that we pay for Tunisian nationals. We can't do that anymore. We're not so rich anymore. We can no longer afford a million, which costs family aid to Tunisia, which is too much. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House with your double and triple references! Let's collect here! For if we are already so poor that we can no longer give these countries the family aid, we may at least be able to do so on the collection. I think what you decide here is really blamable. Firstly, it is clear that what is supposed to be achieved by the budget, namely 600 million schilling per year, at least in 1996 and probably also in 1997, cannot be achieved. And you know, as I do, that in 1998 the family compensation fund will probably again have a positive balance, i.e. that the reason for the termination of these contracts will then be eliminated again. You know as well as I do that the actions we are taking in relation to these countries are an unkind act. We are putting an act that is really unfriendly in the international comparison. This has not been the case, except in times of war or conflict, of any country, of a one-sided declaration of a contract like this one-sided one. Why don't you ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen? There was no such thing. There is no comparable process on the part of a developed country unless one wanted to set an unkind act. – You obviously want to do that, and that's why you quit. I think you overlook one thing, and it is important that this is also said: The procedure alone shows how miserable the situation for Austria is, how miserable this willful announcement is. Fourteen days ago, a government document was sent to the House, which included the option of alternating contract announcement. If we don't quit right now, then at least in two years or vice versa. Should it not be one, then at least the other. This presentation has rightly been withdrawn by the government after major concerns have been raised by our side, but also by all other parties. Then this presentation comes into the house with the immediate termination of the contract. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Social Democratic Party! I do not think you are aware of the fact that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is being put into a material law when he announced the contract, which he has not had so far. So far, he was only the notary of the contract announcement. But now he has the opportunity to make the contract notice, at least as far as the time is concerned, according to his opinion. Because we decide here to announce a contract without a date, ladies and gentlemen. There's no date on it, although it's supposed to be an immediate contract announcement. That means: Since the Federal President has to make this announcement, he is responsible for the decision and not for Parliament anymore. Parliament delivered the decision to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Cap. You should really think about what we decide here! Next point: I also think it really is blamable that Austria, this rich country, wants to announce not only unilaterally but also retroactively. It is at all the clou that the whole of the evils and sins of the national legislation of the Structural Adjustment Act, in which it has been stated that they are very difficult by constitutional law, and where everyone has said that this is no longer to happen, now wants to imitate within the international framework. And then we say to these countries not only that we no longer have money, but that we also want to cash retroactively. This is ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen. In view of this, there will be no one country at all – thank God! – find the 10 or 20 million in its pocket of money, so that this "poor" country can, as it were, clean up its state budget at the expense of family aid. This concerns people who work here in this country, not only as Turkish, Yugoslav or Tunisian nationals, but also as Austrian nationals whose children are prevented from moving here. This is the point, ladies and gentlemen, that we should actually talk about. It's too late, I know. Nevertheless, I say to you: We have an Association Agreement to be fulfilled. We have concluded association agreements with Turkey and with the Maghreb countries which force us to equal these countries, including in family policy matters. This is regulated. Decision 380 also provides for equality in family policy matters. We don't care, says Austria. We believe that although this Treaty applies to the EU, it is not for us. – What does the EU say about this? In a note sent home by an Austrian diplomat, it says: The interlocutors – the EU Commission – called the Austrian attitude an excessive formalism. – No one accepts what we are doing here. The other countries that joined the EU at the same time, Finland and Sweden, naturally adhere to all these terms and conditions. Only Austria says: This does not apply to us, we do not believe that this part of the EU Treaty applies to us. - That's the one point. The other point, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to mention very briefly, is that an EU regulation, as far as I can remember – the ranking of legislation before accession to the EU – is about the directive and is directly applicable to countries. In the final version of the EU Regulation 1408/71, it reads: "Employees or self-employed persons whose family members live in a Member State other than the competent State: A worker or a self-employed person subject to the legislation of a Member State shall be entitled to family benefits in accordance with the legislation of the first State, subject to the provisions of Annex 6 for his family members residing in the territory of another Member State." Regardless of the association agreement we have concluded with Turkey, this provision does not mean that we have to assert this right directly for the nationals of Turkey and also for the nationals of Tunisia with whom we have concluded these association agreements. To do this, the shoulders are turned in Austria on the government bank. – Not you, Minister Hums! But the ministers actually responsible say: We don't care. Although there is an association agreement and a regulation of the EU, what is it about us? We have passed a structural adjustment law, we must bring this 1 million schilling to Tunisia this year. Ladies and gentlemen! – Although we will no longer succeed in bringing these 1 million of Tunisia this year, if you continue to fight so hard for our budget to be reorganised, I am sure that you will successfully get this 1 million of Tunisia and the other 599 million schilling – there are even a little more – from the other countries in one of the coming years. But what destroys you in international trust, what that will cost us in reputation, you can't do again! I'll tell you one thing: These Treaty provisions of the EU Regulation or of the Association Treaty are directly applicable to each of them, including the European Court of Justice. It will take two or three years for the government to be able to get a little money out of this Treaty for the first time, but then Austria will probably or, as I believe, will certainly be condemned by the European Court of Justice for its conduct. And I and my group, and probably some others, will be the first to appeal in this House if this judgment of the European Court of Justice falls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation! Some of the ÖGB are here. . I wish to conclude by saying that in this procedure, even if it is directed against the Republic of Austria, you are taking over the legal representation of those members of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation who are Turkish, Yugoslav or Tunisian nationals after you have done nothing to ensure their rights. That's all I wish for today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19772	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the shot? - That's not the case. We come to a larger number of votes which are carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals, and I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and entry into 20 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This draft has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to a similar sign. This draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 103 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to do so to give a corresponding sign. – The approval was granted unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 104 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. – Here too, I can adopt unanimously. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 105 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this purpose shall give a corresponding sign. . Here too, the approval is granted unanimously. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the agreement between Austria and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on social security in 118 and 118 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The approval was granted by a majority. We now come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the agreement between Austria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on social security between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 119 and 119 of the Supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This approval was granted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the agreement between Austria and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina on social security with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 120 and 120 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This decision has also been adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on Social Security in 121 and the approval of 121 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The approval was granted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the Agreement with the Turkish Republic on Social Security in 122 and 122 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, may make this known by a sign. – The approval has been granted by majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the Agreement with the Tunisian Republic on Social Security in 123 and the approval of 123 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This approval was also granted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the termination of the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia on Social Security in 124 and 124 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This approval has also been granted by a large majority. 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 182/A) by Mr Friedrich Verzetznitsch, Mr Fritz Neugebauerund comrades on a Federal Act on Post-Business Constitution (PVG) (166 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19933	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item: Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. The rapporteur is Mrs Sophie Bauer. I would ask you to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19954	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I bring the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the request of Mr Friedrich Verzetznich, Mr Fritz Neugebauerund comrades on a Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution 182/A. The exclusion of legislation has made it necessary to amend the law. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted on 7 July. In May, the Council discussed this issue. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs therefore makes the request that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the written committee report. Mr President. As there are speeches, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19985	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. For this debate, it was decided that a maximum of two speakers per group would speak for the first speaker at a speaking time of 15 minutes and 10 minutes for the second speaker. Mrs Meisinger has spoken. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20012	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the issue of labour law equality has already been discussed by the self-employed. Everyone is for it, just goes, as so often, nothing further in this matter. Federal Minister! Its predecessor had already in 1991, following a highest court ruling in Germany, that manual and intellectual work should be treated equally, to ensure that in Austria too, quickly, this injustice should be replaced by equal treatment under labour law. In the interests, in the Chamber of Workers and in the ÖGB, one also plays this forward, but in reality, the comprehensive simplification and the huge savings are not perceived. The functionaries act out of self-interest and prevent this progress. The draft Post Constitution Act clearly confirms the assumption that, although the post was distributed, by means of a new special arrangement between the Federal Staff Office Act and the Employment Constitution Act, the pledges from the past, as they existed with the ÖBB, but also with the Post, should be preserved. Staff representatives, confidants and political officers in this area are saving their privileges. What happens to the company, how well-being and survival are secured, is apparently not a concern to them. The full exemption of 3,000 workers, for example, is three works councils under the Employment Constitution Act, seven employees' representatives under the Post Employment Constitution Act. There is exactly where the interests of this bill lie. The Court of Auditors notes that the 37-year-old Figl decision can hardly be a suitable legal basis and notes the financial impact: The provisions relating to the Committee of Trustees pursuant to § 17 para. 2 and 3 and the Staff Committees according to § 19 para. 2. allow unclear staff representation structures due to the discretional scope contained therein. In any event, the three-stage organisation of the staff representative bodies will cause higher costs than comparable undertakings subject to the rules of the Labour Constitution Act because of the increased exemption from service. It should not be seen that the staff representatives' representatives are not to be used to cover the costs of the staff's rules of procedure, as provided for in § 73 of the Labour Constitution Act. In fact, the derogation provided for in § 65 of the draft from the comparable § 115 of the Labour Constitution Act on the principles of the exercise of mandates also appears to be not justified, taking into account the additional burden and the guarantee of the protection of posts guaranteed by individual law. These are in § 72 para. 2 and 3 of the draft proposal would lead to increased expenditure and should therefore be rejected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Officials of representatives of interests, but also staff representatives, may not be better off than the members or staff themselves. In addition, we know of the decades-long misuse of voluntary full exemptions in the field of trust in public transport and postal services. Court of Auditors reports from previous years also show that there have been ongoing infringements or unjustified exemptions. It is therefore apparent that the "Action Fairness" of the ÖGB is only a mask and a reflection of false facts. Furthermore, the desire for rapid decision-making is based on a so-called cow trade between the coalition parties: The ÖVP is expected to receive the stock exchange up to the year 2000, while the SPÖ operated in excess the security of its exempt personnel representatives. Injustice is transparent. We liberals therefore reject this Post-Business Constitutional Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20088	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20110	Mr President. Minister! High house! I should like to thank my previous speaker for showing how clearly he shows the attitude of the FPÖ to workers. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is there nothing wrong with you at all?]] The fines from the past, Mr. Colleague, which were retained in your eyes, are co-determination rights. Workers' co-determination rights are "Pfrunds" at the FPÖ. That's self-evident! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Post-Business Constitution Act is therefore necessary to bring the democratic rights of employee participation of Post and Telekom Austria AG, which are currently not legally regulated, to a legal level. It is through this Constitutional Act that we are finally able to create a legal basis for the representation of workers in these new areas. This is once the legal basis for this. And that's not what you're going to do! That's very good, we'll remember! This will be interesting in the next elections. The collective legal structure is partly referred to by the Labour Constitution Act. In this context, I should like to point out that the special collective contractual capacity of Post und Telekom Austria AG or of companies where there is a majority of the participation is to be taken into account. In principle, the Constitution Act is based on the Labour Constitution Act, the three-part effect of which is of course due to the three-part structure of the Office's representation of interests. In particular, account shall be taken of the previous activities of the staff representative bodies. In order to safeguard the powers of the employee's representatives, reference is made, on the one hand, to the third main part of the second part of the Constitutional Constitutional Act, on the other hand, to the powers which have been conferred on the staff representatives so far. And this is clearly about these co-determination rights which you have shown here and which you are yelling at. Maybe a little bit to the prunes. That also shows your concept of democracy, because you meant something was done. You have probably never noticed, Mr Commissioner, that these people are elected to vote. But you're wrong, because the voters don't want you. They prefer us because they know that we are in favour of their interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I still think is essential in this proposal for an initiative is that equal treatment is also regulated in the field of postal services. It will therefore be located in the Federal Equal Treatment area, so that we do not have different regulations for workers in this area. However, the application of the Post Operating Constitution Act as we have heard it here to the Telecommunications Authority would be the only case of the application of the Labour Constitution Act to the Federal Authority. I therefore propose a corresponding amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to give your consent to this law in the form of this amendment in the interests of the workers of this newly created structure of Post and Telekom Austria AG.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20193	The amendment tabled by Mrs Silhavy is sufficiently supported. I will involve him in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20218	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can refer to Mr Meisinger's comments. He has already pointed out very clearly that this is a law which is not unnecessary from its circle of rules but is superfluous as such. This is because the post-structural law seems to have not yet been known or has been overlooked that the Post-Structural Act also entails substantial changes at the level of the employee's rights of participation and that it would therefore have been a good advice to deal with the problem which is now under way by means of appropriate transitional provisions. But the really unpleasant thing about this law is not the regulatory content. To this we can confess freely. We think it is important to make an urgent effort to recapture. But why not use the existing labour constitution law as a parent law and why one has not concentrated on presenting here those provisions that contain the specifics needed to make this transfer, that is not at all comprehensible – even if one can see in precise study that the essential sections of this Post-Business Constitution Act are almost identically written out of the Labour Constitution Act, with the only real serious mistake that one has partially superfluously deleted individual words. For example, in this new Post-Business Constitution Act, one has defined a term of service, an employee concept, which is word identical to that of the Labour Constitution Act, only one word is outstretched, namely the parentheses "home worker". I understand that the legal authorities of the transport resort, now a scientific unit, when they seem to have developed this law mainly written down, were of the opinion that there were no domestic workers at the post office, so you don't need it either. I guess that's true. But first of all, one should not be quite as sure as to what the future of the post will be. It could develop differently towards telework et cetera. And second, it wouldn't have bothered if there were "home workers". If he does not appear in the post, it does not matter if he is included in the employee's concept. Quintessence of the whole – I am again referring to the comments made by Mr Meisinger –: Instead of taking a step today by giving the majority of our motion for a resolution on the harmonisation of employment rights within the meaning of a working group for the Federal Government, we are creating a new worker concept and a parallel work constitution right, and that in broad passages completely superfluous, because the labour constitution law would have been excellent. And this, please, against the background of the general obscurity about the flood of law. To have that in the Minutes was worth this word. Furthermore, we will not give our consent to this proposal for these fundamental considerations – not for reasons of substance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20266	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not have to judge for what reasons and with what reasons the Liberal Forum rejects this law, but I would like to make two comments. First point: It was our concern, of course, to draw up this law, in which we have cooperated – I come back to trying, on the one hand, to adopt the basic structure of the Staff Representatives Act, namely this three-member structure, but on the other hand, to bring it into full alignment with the Labour Constitution Act. [[Abg. Meisinger: A cow trade!]] And if the honourable Member criticises Kier that there are, in part, identical formulations in this Post-Business Constitution Act and in the Labour Constitution Act, this confirms exactly our concern which we want to achieve. And if you do not want to take note of this, even because of my statements in committee, this is a motive which I do not understand in this context as a reason for rejection. Second point: Mr Meisinger spoke here of a cow trade because of a completely out of control. I would like to say quite clearly that there was no agreement at all in this respect and that there was no need for any agreement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Meisinger: That corresponds to reality!]] I'm going to turn that back! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: It is not a question of creating new exemptions from staff representatives or, as we are now saying, members of staff committees, central committees, trust committees. That's not true. If you calculate it accurately, you will determine exactly the same number of exemptions as you would in applying the Labour Constitution Act. There is no extension of exemptions in any way. This too is an error, as well as, of course, several other things that have been said here are due to the fact that the people concerned have not read the law properly. For us, it was important – and I am returning to the Labour Constitution Act – that, especially in the field of disabled persons and young people's representatives, we have implemented those principles which also apply in the Employment Constitution Act. We have largely responded to the Labour Constitution Act, and I think that was also right and in this sense good. In conclusion, I believe that we have certainly put the interests of the workers, the employees primarily in the foreground. It is not that way – and Mr Kier is wrong for the third time – that there is no transitional provision in the Poststructural Law. The transitional provision is very well contained in the Poststructural Act. It is clear that the Staff Representative Act will be applied until the adoption of this Post Employment Constitution Act. There is still a second transitional provision, which I now no longer wish to explain in detail, but which makes it clear that in any case a representative of the staff in the relevant institutions is provided for. However, we felt that this Post-Business Constitution Act should be adopted at the earliest possible time. That is why we have also today presented this bill for decision-making. I would ask him to give his consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20346	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this is the time when I wanted to be allowed to speak to this post-business constitution law, because it roughly also marks the quality of this legislation: In this rather sleepy auditorium, I apologize for saying so, the quality of this legislation will be debated once again in this auditing session, which has been held at an early hour. There is an own-initiative proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables. What is it for? We do not need to discuss this proposal materially, essentially, it will be decided. The Committee's report, with the amendment in question, is allocated to the Assembly, and there is a new material amendment to the amendment tabled by Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades. Have you forgotten anything else? Whether or not to occur. Ladies and gentlemen, I say one thing: This does not speak for the quality of this law. And it is not for us to decide here a post-business constitution law as a law separate from the employment constitution. Because what you offer to argue, why we had to work out our own law here, or why you had to do that, does not speak for this law. They say that this is linked to the particular material structure and to the fact that there are still staff representative bodies to be found. That is why you are making the present amendment because you have to take account of the fact that the Federal Ministry of Science, Transport and the Future has said: You can't do that. You can't decide this way, but we need staff representative bodies for the Federal Institutions, because they can't be subject to the employment constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Highness!]] Yes, but, of course, that is the justification of the Ministry of Science. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Highness Administration!]] Yes, that is exactly what I am talking about, Mr Feurstein. I said it. You didn't listen to me. I do not want to discuss this in terms of content either. I mean, this legislation has no quality. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger.]] I am sorry that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖGB – Mr Vergestnich and everyone else should feel addressed – are bringing in a law here that would not have been discussed more intensively in the institutions of the ÖGB – that is obviously not necessary – or that the Chamber of Labour has experienced its own assessment. Because when we requested the review from the Chamber of Labour, it said: We don't need to make our own assessment, because the law comes from us anyway. This is, of course, a new quality, Mr Feurstein, so to speak, that the law does not come from you, but from the Chamber of Labour. I should be right, too. Unfortunately, this does not speak in this case for the quality of the Chamber of Workers and not for the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20422	The next speaker is Mrs Hostasch. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20444	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Kier and Mr Meisinger and Mr Oillinger! If you make up the Labour Constitution Act and compare the situation of the distributed post or post in the new legal form, you will realize in an objective consideration that the Labour Constitution Act cannot be applied seamlessly to the situation of the new Post. And if the political goal is to maintain the co-determination quality of the employees in the post office by their chosen bodies also for the future, it makes sense to form a separate business constitution law for this economic entity. [[Abg. Blünegger: There you have to lead every company!]] You also have to admit that in some respects, such as the concept of business, the concept of business, the structure of the organization, there are different conditions in the post than in the definitions in the Labour Constitution Act. However, if you are not interested in the fact that all post workers are uniformly equipped with the same quality of co-determination, you are right to point out that there is no need for a law of your own. Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it clear that this Constitutional Act for employees in the postal sector implements the wishes and demands of employee interest representatives, the relevant trade union. The draft law was drawn up jointly, and it is a very important draft law, because especially when a company is in a transition phase, especially when uncertainty can arise among employees, it is crucial to involve employees in the further organisational changes to the decision-making process. I can only be surprised, Mr Oellinger, that you are criticizing the fact that the Committee has discussed an amendment and has finally been decided, because this amendment has brought about the fact that those rights which we have in the post for a large part of the employees through the Federal Equality Act are now guaranteed for all employees and that the rights of participation are equally guaranteed for the disabled. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this amendment has been approved by the Committee and I hope that the whole of the law as a whole will be approved by the amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20479	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20501	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! According to the statements made by the President of the Chamber of Labour, we would have to adopt even more laws today. We should decide on our own law for each company, and that is, I believe, not our task here in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on a Federal Act on the Post-Business Constitution has a beauty mistake; Mr Meisinger has already mentioned this, among other things. In comparison with the Labour Constitution Act, it is the beauty mistake that it includes increased exemptions. And these increased exemptions, which already start with 20 employees in any department, are, as I mean, not fair, not in accordance with the Labour Constitution Act. In addition to the Federal Staff Representative Act and the Labour Constitution Act, a third law is now added. It is not the task of making three out of two laws, but it has failed a lot, one is reforming the labour constitution law in this case. That would, I think, be a necessity. If Mrs Silhavy has said here that we are not representatives of the workers of the liberals, she is, I believe, on the wood road. You are in front of you, one who has been in work for a long time and who knows exactly where the workers are pressing the shoe. And we will also say to workers that not only the Social Democrats but also the Freedom of Workers' Interests represent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You can say it! You've got to prove it!]] Madam honourable Members, you would only have needed to develop the existing laws. You could have expanded the Staff Representatives Act, and you could have developed the Labour Constitution Act. They point out, in the proposal now submitted, that this belongs to the Labour Constitution Act. That's exactly the way you could have taken, then we wouldn't have needed this bill at all. [[Abg. Silhavy: Unification!]] Unification, right, but where? I didn't see that. Mr Feurstein is of the opinion that this law is necessary, but we are not liberals. We say: No more improvements to the existing law, but more harmonisation. That would have been meaning and purpose, and therefore we will not give any consent here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20564	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. Mrs Maij-Weggen, a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. I shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 166 of the Supplements. Hiezu the Members of Parliament have Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and comrades submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a sentence in § 75. Since only one request was made, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 166 of the supplements as amended by the supplementary request of Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This request has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading to give an appropriate sign. This request has also been accepted by a majority of the third reading. 22. Point Health Committee Report on the Government Template (113 of Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the Regulation of Upgraded Medical and Technical Services (MTD Act) (170 of Supplements) 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 27/A (E) by Dr Alois Pumbergerund Comrades on the establishment of group practices by health professionals (167 of the supplements) 24. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 62/A (E) by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on the introduction of patient and pharmaceutical insurance in accordance with the principle of non-indebted liability (168 of the supplements) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 115/A (E) by Mr Mag. Herbert Hauptand comrades on psychologist training (169 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20670	We now come to points 22 to 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Health Committee on the Government Template 113 of the Supplements: Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Regulation of Up-to-Date Medical Services, 170 of the Supplements, 27/A (E) of Deputies Dr. Pumberger and comrades concerning the establishment of group practices by health professionals, 167 of the Supplements, 62/A (E) of Deputies Haidlmayr and comrades concerning the introduction of a patient and pharmaceutical insurance according to the principle of indebted liability, 168 of the Supplements, and 115/A (E) of Deputies Mag. Main and comrades in the field of psychologist training, 169 of the supplements. The rapporteur on all points is Mrs Lacner. – Deputies! I would ask you to open the debate with your reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20691	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will report to the Committee on Health on the Government template 113 of the supplements: Federal Law, which amends the Federal Law on the Regulation of Upgraded Medical-Technical Services, MTD-Law. At its meeting on 30 October the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection adopted the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the The supplementary and amending amendments tabled by Mr Alois Pumbergerund comrades did not find a majority. The amendment was also rejected by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrund's friends. The government proposal was adopted unanimously during the vote. As a result of its deliberations, the Health Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law submitted by the Federal Government, 113 of the supplements. I shall also report on the motion for a resolution 27/A (E) by Dr Alois Pumbergerund comrades on the establishment of group practices by health professionals. At its meeting on 30 October, the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection adopted the motion for a resolution (Doc. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. When the vote was taken, the motion for a resolution in question did not find a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Health therefore requests that the National Council take note of this report. I also report on the motion for a resolution 62/A (E) by Mrs Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades on the introduction of a patient and pharmaceutical insurance under the principle of indebtedness. The Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted the motion for a resolution at its meeting on 30 November. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. The amendment tabled by Mr Theresia Haidlmayrfand did not agree with the majority of the Committee. When the vote was taken, the motion for a resolution in question did not find a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Health therefore requests that the National Council take note of this report. I shall also report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Main and comrades in the field of psychologist training. The Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted this motion for a resolution at its meeting on 30 November. In the course of the investigation, the Commission decided to initiate proceedings on 1 May 1996. According to speech by Dr. Volker Kier, Mag. Walter Guggenberger, Theresia Haidlmayr, Dr. Günther Leiner, Mag. Herbert Hauptas well as Dr. Alois Pumberger, at the request of Mr Mag. Walter Guggenberger, Dr. Günther Leiner, Dr. Volker Kierund Theresia Haidlmayrwith votes to recommend to the President of the National Council the assignment of this proposal to the Scientific and Research Committee. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Health therefore requests that the National Council take note of this report. As there are statements of speech, Mr President, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20821	Thank you for your comments. A general speaking time of two "Vienna hours" has been set for this debate, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. Mrs Povysil has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20848	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It's late. [[Call: It's not late, it's early]] It's early, you're right! I shall all be right on this point. The interest in the MTD law, i.e. in the law for the up-to-date medical and technical professions, may not be exactly burning at the moment. But it can be very burning and especially very close to the body for you when you are delivered to a hospital. In 1992, the Federal Law on MTD was adopted unanimously by the National Council. The reasons for today's innovations are the production of EEA and EU conformity, the legal anchoring of student representation and the recasting of the nostrification rules. These are important things that have, however, been dealt with in haste. But just as fast and equally important things were pushed to the long bank or not thought at all. Now I ask you: If you're in the hospital and you're taken from a finger bear's blood, wouldn't you like to be able to talk to the MTA that's doing this to you? Or do you not want to if, for example, the ankle is x-rayed and you notice that it is the wrong one to have the opportunity to communicate this to the RTA and to talk to her about it? Wouldn't it be important for you that you get the right blood transfusion in the event of an emergency, or wouldn't it be important for you that if you give your child logoic treatment, that this logopaedin also speaks German to the child? This innovation on vocational training and language skills merely states: There must be knowledge of the language required for professional training. And the term "necessary language knowledge" is relative. If, as with me, there are departments in the Children's Hospital, in which often two thirds of children speak Serbian or Turkish, then the necessary language skills would be Serbian or Turkish. But I believe it is particularly important that RTAs or MTAs can be German. You need to be able to get in touch with the patient, and they need to understand my orders quickly and accurately in case of an emergency. Because in the event of an emergency, I really can't discuss what I want from the RTA or MTA side. I would therefore like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] With the exception of the current innovation, the change in the job profile, the introduction of the MTD list and the professionalism of the MTDs are also important. It is important that MTDs have a clear career. Nothing is more difficult to manage psychologically and from employee motivation than if a profession does not know exactly its tasks and limits. Medical supervision is essential. The entry of the MTDs into the MTD list should not be dependent on membership of an umbrella association, but rather MTDs should be shown in the list of the respective country health management or in the MTD list of the Federal Ministry of Health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kammerlander.]] Have you been accidented? Can I help you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Don't worry, a doctor is responsible for all clubs. Just a short while on the profession of RTAs and MTAs. I would like to warn you very urgently. I'm a radiology specialist. I have completed a six-year post-promotional training in my field and a mandatory training on radiation protection! Radiologists are RTAs trainers in schools and hospitals. Let me give you the following example: A RTA can be established on a professional basis and is transferred to X-ray by specialists to these professionally established RTA patients. Then the patient with the X-rays returns to the specialist, and no radiologist has seen him. – This is an blatant quality reduction that I would like to warn against! The MTD is a highly qualified profession that needs a clear career and excellent training. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you think about the novelle? Patients should be able to talk with their RTA, MTA, physiotherapist, diet staff, or Ergo therapists, logoactins or members of the orthoptic service, they should be able to speak with them in their language. And please note that due to a rapid EU adjustment, it does not result in a reduction in the quality of the MTD's profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20923	The amendment tabled by Mrs Povysil is supported by business rules and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs Onodi. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20947	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The focus of this innovation and its intention, as has already been said, is on the production of EEA and EU conformity. Mrs. Dr. Povysil! If you think that this novelle may now result in a devaluation of the profession or in the pursuit of the profession no longer be able to do so, I must say that the intention is just contrary. The intention was EU conformity. At the same time, it has also been adopted texts that have already proved their worth in other laws. But one does not want to take a few decisions, so to speak, to pick up, to be discussed. The relevant language skills have been discussed. It has been noted and, of course, assumed that a person who wants to practice this profession must also be able to understand and apply the language. But we have distanced ourselves from the general standardisation of a language barrier, and at the same time we have noticed that it is up to the service provider to check the language skills. Ladies and gentlemen! Other priorities were also laid down by law, such as the student representation or the nostrification rules. There has been no need for all courses to be heard in the case of nostrifications, in line with the regulations for the university. In this context, the costs of such courses will certainly be reduced at the academies. Furthermore, the annual audit of the graduates of the academies has also been removed. There will also be a slight reduction in training costs in this area. By the way, there is also a similar scheme in the Medical Care Act. Another important point, which will be very important for the future of the profession, is that there is now also the possibility of holding higher education courses for teachers and executives, but the completion of special training under the Federal Law should create the same qualification. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, it was really the priority of the effort to include some proven provisions in this novel. Of course, further reforms are planned, which, as we know, are also urgently desired. However, we would be ill advised to take up these points without sufficient discussion and consultation, such as the creation of an MTD list, compulsory training, but also changes in the job situation and in the field of activity. It is simply too important to be able to integrate the relevant arrangements into this novel without any discussion with the parties concerned and with the professional representatives. With regard to the equalisation of the examination committee with the reception commission, there are arguments for this. However, the question arises whether all the other vocational education schools, which, according to their own assessment criteria, accept pupils, actually do not have the quality, continuity and comparability, as indicated in the amendment tabled by Mr Pumberger. Another point is that, for the first time in this draft, a mandatory documentation will be established for members of the up-to-date medical and technical services. The mandatory preparation of a documentation certainly also leads to the professionalisation of these professions and is therefore a measure for quality assurance and protection of all parties involved. Ladies and gentlemen! This novel contains some significant improvements and changes. Some points still need to be discussed. However, it is certain that training in health professions in particular is of high quality and adaptable to the requirements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21004	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21026	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals give our consent to the government template, which amends the Federal Law on the Regulation of Upgraded Medical and Technical Services – I am unfortunately not completely finished! – because by joining the EU, full adaptation of the MTD legislation to the legal situation there has become indispensable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Freeman]] However, I do not want to hide the fact that I do not understand why this law is being adopted today only half-heartedly. I should like to remind you that a MTD list has been welcomed in the review process, but also with criticism. Today, however, we must note that there is no list in this law at all. – Why it is so, Mrs. Minister, is I unexplainable. Furthermore, this law is a typical example of an Austrian law on the path of permanent innovation. Mrs Onodi! I don't think there can be any talk about a back-sucking procedure. It is known that the MTD Act was adopted in 1992 and that it has already been amended twice, in 1993 and 1994, and in 1996 it will be amended again with today's decision-making. The next revision is already in the house. For it is clear from the explanations given in this paper that corrections to the shortcomings in the inclusion of regulations which have not yet been incorporated into the law are in place. I quote: "Other reform projects which have not yet been sufficiently discussed, which have been submitted to the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection, remain reserved for a later innovation." – End of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already agreed to the amendment tabled by the Greens and the Liberals in the Committee, because these amendments would include some of the necessary reforms. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] I am incomprehensible that the Members of the Governments reject these requests and thus document prevention policy once again. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum and the Freemans.]] On the request of the Liberals in the Committee on Health on Group Practices, I can say, despite other reports, that my colleague Dr Kier has given his approval to this request. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the 1990s, there have been discussions on the establishment of group practices, which are undoubtedly essential to the strengthening of the extra-mural area in health care. Many debates on this matter have also found their rainfall here in the House. And not only did the opposition parties raise demands regarding the establishment of group practices. I therefore cannot understand why the government parties have also refused to accept this motion for a resolution. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I must say that we have also given our approval to the Greens' motion for a resolution on patient insurance in the Committee. The introduction of a debt-independent liability is also a major concern for us Liberals. I assumed that this must also be a concern for the government parties, because already in the 1994 government agreement there was talk of the need for such insurance. And also in the current government agreement, it is literally to be read – I quote –: "In the matter of liability for medical art defects, the competent government members will start talks with the insurance industry." – End of the quote. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It is therefore inconceivable to me why you have refused to accept this request of the opposition, which does not require more than one draft by the end of the year, since it has already been recognised as necessary in the government declarations. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! I say it again: Operation They are not preventing policy, they are caring for it. She wishes for a reasonable policy in our desolating health care!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21120	Mr Leiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21141	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the revision of the MTD law. This is an approximation to EU standards. I am convinced that this is good and right. For years, we have been calling for a reform of health care by the EIA in negotiations, which is to build on three pillars. First of all, sound, transparent financing, second of all: Priority of the outpatients prior to stationary treatment, and third, health care in the service of patient rights and patient insurance. And if we could simply reject and implement these reforms with a proposal, we would of course have done so for a long time. At the request of the liberals concerning group practices: That's an archival demand from us, you know. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Their establishment is very important, because if we want to carry out performance-oriented hospital financing, then group practices must exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we need a corresponding infrastructure, day clinics and so on. In this context, doctors, insurance companies and, above all, the main association are required. In my opinion, the Minister cannot support the fact that this group practice law has not yet been completed. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The laws make the National Council and not the main association!]] You know very well that there is simply no way to get over certain interests and professional groups – even if not lawyers, as much as I know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is that in the Constitution?]] I would also like to make a brief comment on Mrs Haidlmayr's request concerning the indebtedness of compensation for patients affected: I myself know many patients who have suffered damage and desperately try to get to their right. It's not that much for them to get money, but it's mostly about the right. I would rather have seen today than tomorrow a debt-independent compensation model introduced in Austria. We must only make sure that we do not endanger the whole system with all our demands. Private hospitals and hospitals in which patients are treated and cared for wonderfully today are fighting for the naked survival. A few more regulations are being made here in the house, and these patients have to look for another hospital. – Whether this is in the patient’s mind, I dare doubt. Some important steps towards more right for patients and better enforceability of demands have already been taken with the introduction of patient prosecutions in almost all federal states. However, I believe that further steps are still absolutely necessary. The compensation model does not work completely in Austria. But the most anti-patient health system would arise if we demand too much from our health system, which we can no longer afford. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21210	Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21240	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Don't be afraid! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Not before you!]] A little fun at the beginning of my speech won't hurt later. But the subject is a very serious one. For the MTD Act, the representatives of these professional groups have called for much more than what has come out. In this context, one could say: The mountains cried, a little mouse was born, quote. The representatives of these professional groups wanted the introduction of the MTD list and compulsory training, a change in the professional profile and the extension of professionalism to all MTDs. But all of this is not included in the novel, not even in approaches, but it is only an EU adaptation and an extension of training from two and a half to three years. And that's very little. It has not yet been clarified who bears the additional costs. It is likely that the federal states will have to bear the additional costs for this half-year of additional training, which is a cost increase of about 7 million schilling for the federal states. But that's not clear yet. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I hope that there will soon be another innovation, and then we will hopefully be able to find a satisfactory solution in the sense of all those who belong to the MTD professions. The indebtedness of patient liability by all members of the Health Committee... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Yes, Mr. Rasinger, I forgot my watch, unfortunately. But you can tell me how late it is. The importance of indebtedness-independent patient insurance has been stressed by all members of the Health Committee and also by the Minister of Health. . Then there was the vote on the so important request, which would have included nothing other than the presentation of an appropriate approach by the end of the year. But not even that was accepted, it was rejected by the government groups against the votes of the opposition. It is unfortunate to leave the patients in the rain in this way, to whom – as you can read in the newspapers again and again – mistaken testimonies or false legs are amputated, or in which surgery cutlery is forgotten in the abdominal, and much more. Such patients often struggle for years for their rights and are very late or often not at all to their right. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's scandalous!]] That is really scandalous, Mrs Colleague! I therefore believe that a debt-indebted patient liability is really necessary. Mr Leiner! To the Group Practice Act: In the meantime, I already have my own request in secret. Everyone says: That's good. And if the government parties say that something is good, what the opposition demands, then something is not quite right somewhere! And so is it. There is now a VfGH knowledge. You can join us now, that's no longer illegal. That's why the doctor's chamber said: We don't need any more group practice law at all, because the doctors can already join together and no longer violate the law. The government parties accepted this benevolently. The main association of social security funds was very satisfied because it has tried to achieve with all its strength that this group practice law never comes about at all. Now the main association, which we have heard so much about today and which is involved in dubious business with bandagist companies, is also very much involved in the implementation of the group practice law now adopted by all parliamentary groups. Not even the doctor's chamber wanted the group practice law until it came upon the doctors to join together in this case and establish a GesmbH. And what does that mean? – They no longer belong to the Chamber of Doctors, but to the Chamber of Commerce. As Mr. Stumbling is very pleased, the doctors, when setting up a GmbH, become mandatory members of the Chamber of Commerce and leave the Chamber of Physicians. That's what the doctor's chamber recognized and said: For God's sake, that must not happen! We could lose a few forced members. So we need to quickly see that we get the group practice law. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's why we want to renegotiate it!]] Yes, that's how it is, Mr. Leiner. You laughed, you recognized it exactly. Now you want a group practice law again. I'll tell you: If the Group Practice Act comes in the way that it was already completed as a bill in the last GP, I am afraid that our own application could go through. If the Group Practice Act is presented by the government parties as the draft was drawn up in the last GP, then I could not agree to this law, for it contains a limitation of the number of participants, in which the employment ban of doctors in doctors is included, since family members are not allowed to participate. It's bad! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: You are against it yourself and want to negotiate!]] We said we had to make a new edition of the Group Practice Act. I am in favour of that when the ideas of the liberals are taken up and also the ideas of the ÖVP. It also wants doctors to be appointed to doctors, it also wants family members to become partners, it also wants the number of doctors who are participants in group practices to be limited. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Then negotiate!]] We have already discussed all of this; you want it all the way we do. You are just as afraid of the group practice law, which is presented to you by the socialists and the main association, but you cannot get out of the ÖVP again. You are intertwined with them, married, sitting under a blanket with them, and must agree to a law that you all do not want. You are afraid of that, we fear it, and therefore we are all glad if it does not come to it at all, and I am glad today when this request is rejected again. Thank you. Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21338	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21360	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a fundamental remark: I note that the solution to the problem of medical damage and therefore of treatment defects is a very big concern of the coalition, but – and this question is really allowed – we are wondering whether this indebted-inindependent solution – with liability insurance – is the right way. In short, the question is: How can we help damaged patients to their right? – The current legal situation – you know it as well as we do – is unsatisfying for patients, on the one hand, but also for doctors and other health professionals. They know the problems that damaged patients expect: the distribution of evidence load, a high cost risk, long process duration, the problem of experts with the so-called independent experts – in short: long, risky and very expensive processes. So you can conclude – and we come to the conclusion: It is very difficult for damaged patients today to enforce their rights on the courtway. But also on the side of the doctors it is not easy, because medical liability processes can lead to an exorbitant civil liability sum or they usually lead to it. This often also involves the problem of possible media reputational damage. It is therefore important to develop a system to ensure that damaged patients come to their right on the one hand, but also that doctors continue to be able to exercise their profession. Now we are dealing with the central question: Does this have an indebtedness-independent liability, or are there no other models and solutions? In the discussion on the indebtedness of the debt – which I would like to express here – the impression is constantly being given – also by my previous speakers, by the colleague Mother or by the liberals – that without examination of the causality, namely the connection of incorrect treatment and damage, compensation claims are immediately accepted, in such a way that one goes to a paying agency and says: I have had a treatment mistake, so I have 200 000 s. I'm allowed They shall correct: There is already the possibility of asserting indebtedness-independent claims in the Austrian legal system – also in the field of product liability. But I can tell you one thing very clearly: There is also a wide range of processes, and these processes do not last half a year, a year, but take three years, four years and five years. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Seven years!]] I can therefore report to you on the latest development from Europe, from Brussels: It is already being considered how this causality problem can be solved, because a debt-independent regulation does not solve the problem of how damaged patients can enforce their rights. For us, therefore, the indebted-independent solution is not the last conclusion of wisdom. On the one hand, it is very expensive – one speaks of 600 million to 1.2 billion schilling – and on the other hand, this model has to be considered in principle. What can be imagined, then, if one wants to help the injured patient to their right? Firstly, a modification of the legal burden of proof, perhaps even in the light of the current case law of the Supreme Court. Furthermore, this is also very important, it would be necessary to set up an independent expert unit to request advice from patients, without having to pay costs at that level, as they are currently calculated in judicial proceedings, and, for me, to extend the so-called conciliation bodies already in place, to genuine arbitration procedures. In our opinion, however, these must be legislated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This should enable us, if an indebted-independent solution cannot be financed, to help the affected consumer or patient quickly to their right. – Thank you for your attention and a good night!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21397	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21419	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I don't want to stretch your patience for too long in the face of the advanced hour. I have therefore spoken in favour of the fact that Mr Leiner's report on the Group Practice Act was more than provocative. Here Mr Leiner, his doctor of Bad Gastein's sign, comes out, claiming to all serious that it corresponds to an old requirement of his party to permit group practices by law. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's right, too!]] Mr Leiner! They belong to a group that has been in the government for years. That's what I'm asking myself: What prevents you from actually introducing a group practice law here in the National Council by means of a government proposal or an initiative by the ÖVP, coordinated with the SPÖ? What prevents you from doing so? At any rate, you cannot do: delay this law over years, take a gross disregard for the recognition of the Constitutional Court, interrupt all the Freedom Party's own initiative applications for approval of group practices and then simply make and say: We of the ÖVP have always been for this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is this, as I have said, a dual position which you are taking here, and I am already anxious to see what Mr Rasinger's opinion, which comes from free practice, represents here. I already expect a very clear opinion. De lege lata is so that group practices are still inadmissible, because you know that this recognition of the Constitutional Court in the course of the recognition of the so-called reception premium only has the effect for the complainant that it is actually allowed to conduct the group practice. It is therefore still necessary to legislate. Ladies and gentlemen! All of us should be aware that all sincere democrats in this country must be concerned that more and more citizens, who are protected by constitutional rights, have to turn to the Constitutional Court in order to enforce their right there, such as the doctor as a complainant who has enforced group practice, such as some broadcasting operators who have fallen into the Regional Radio Act, or the cable television operators who have fallen into the ban on cable television. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of the continued inactivity of the legislator, more and more people in this country are forced to enforce their rights at the Constitutional Court, which are affected by their constitutional rights. But the legislator's reaction – that is to say, the government parties – is not that one immediately follows a constitutional court knowledge and creates a corresponding legislation in accordance with the law, but it is further walled, one continues to practice in inactivity. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leiner said that there is nothing going without any interest in this country, and as an example he also mentioned the solicitorship. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That's stone and clear!]] You know very well, Mr Leiner, that the solicitorship has of course known very long Community law firms and that there is no need to regulate them. As you already address the interests: It is in line with a long-standing demand from the Austrian medical profession to allow such group practices. So it was blocked. Do you really want to agree here at last to the initiative proposal of the liberals for approval? [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: We're negotiating!]] Negotiating is not enough, laws you must make! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That really can't be the case... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Leiner.]] Who makes the laws? Do the laws relating to health policy, the main association of social security institutions or the National Council? I don't know now. The role of the main association of social security institutions is more than strange and really in need of information. Today, the Minister of Social Affairs is making himself known today and has been quoted six or seven times as the Deputy Director-General of the main association of social security funds, and here leaves out statements, making demutsges in front of the main association of social security funds. Dr. Leiner comes here and says nothing goes without the main association. – Please, if we are already so far in this state, has the legislation really been devalued in such a way that nothing goes without such associations in that country? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Rasinger! You now have the opportunity to give an opinion in the direction that you finally take into account this legitimate request from the medical profession, finally taking into account the demand of the Constitutional Court by agreeing to the initiative's request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21503	Mr Rasinger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21524	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the hour ahead, I would just like to say to you, Mr Krüger: The ÖVP has been in favour of a group practice law for years. I do not want to explain the reasons why this has not yet been achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Oh yes! Please!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Please do it!]] As a doctor, I take account of the advanced hour and declare only on behalf of the ÖVP that we agree to these templates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21579	Ladies and gentlemen! No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we are entering into the voting procedure, and I am going to have to vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 113 of the supplements. Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. We come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Dr. Pumberger and Comrades concerning Z 2 § 3 para. 1 Z 4. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The vote is now Z 2 §3 para. 1 Z 4 as amended by the Government template in 113 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is majority voting. The application was therefore accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I'm looking for an appropriate sign. – This has now been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – At third reading, the draft law was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of his report 167 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority of votes. This report has therefore been taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 168 of the supplements. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. . This report has also been adopted by majority vote. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 169 of the supplements. I'm asking for an appropriate sign. – This has also been adopted by majority vote. I now turn to Amendment 115/A (E) to the Committee on Science and Research. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21696	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Peter and Comrades, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion 101/A of the honourable Member Mag. Peter and comrades concerning contract law and civil service law a period of up to 11. In June 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is not the majority of votes. The application is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-13-020-XX-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21725	I would also like to say that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought up with requests 220/A to 235/A. Questions 700/J to 788/J have also been raised. Finally, in connection with the self-employed claim 228/A, I declare that the Court of Auditors, with regard to the conduct of a special act of conduct of the Court of Auditors' examination of the conduct of statutory health insurance schemes, including the main association of social security institutions, in particular with regard to remedies and remedies, having regard to the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the organisational structure, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal conditions are met, an examination of the conduct must be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 1.30 p.m. This is immediately after this meeting. The meeting is closed.
