ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2146	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you all. I'll open the 7th. A meeting of the National Council, convened by more than one-fifth of the Members on the basis of a business order request. First of all, I should like to ask all the ladies and gentlemen present in the hall to rise from the seats. [[Those present rise from the seats.]] Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2180	They all received the news that a very kind colleague, Mr. Peter Leitner, was on 7 July. February, i.e. a week after the last plenary session of the National Council, passed away. He was already worried about his health at the end of the previous legislative period – and his family with him. He's been running again. It has been equipped with convincing and overwhelming confidence, has been pleased and has participated in the first sessions of this legislative period. But everyone has seen that he is not doing well in health. – Col. Peter Leitner was born on 7 July. He died in February. Mr Leitner was a very kind colleague, who gained full recognition in his work for his constituency and for his profession. A bouquet of flowers at his seat reminds us of his belonging to this house. We want to remember this kind man and his work in a moment of mourning. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2215	I declare that the official protocols of 4th, 5th and 6ths. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. For today's sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Lösnak, Dkfm. Ruthofer, Mag. Frieser, Ing. Maderthaner and Voggenhuber. Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2242	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mrs Ridi Steiblauf has been appointed by the late Member Peter Leitner. The term of office of Mr Ridi Steibl was replaced by Mr Franz Stamplerzugewiesen. As the President-in-Office of the Council is present and the President-in-Office is present in the House, I shall immediately make his fishing observation as a member of the National Council. After reading the vow formula and calling for her name by the female writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words "I promise". Ms. Wyssler Ute Applebeck will read the vow formula. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2284	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2299	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2314	I warmly welcome the new colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2342	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office made a statement concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government on the following resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Molterer is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ditz. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2366	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2533	Members Dr. Haider and Comrades requested urgent consideration of the written question submitted at the beginning of the meeting 153/J by Dr. Haider and comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on the reduction of privilege and tax package. Since this desire is aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, I consider this consultation in accordance with § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure for 16.30 a.m. – that is three hours after submission. In this sense, we shall proceed. I am now allowed to interrupt the sitting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2561	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Haider and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the reduction of privileges and tax package (153/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e2594	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 153/J. In the meantime, it has been distributed, and therefore there is no need for a reading by a writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3155	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, in which the speaking time is also standardised. Mr Dr. Haider, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3182	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The Austrian Federal Government, which is about to be formed, has presented to the Austrians a load package of considerable dimensions, a load package with content that will basically meet and capture every Austrian citizen in a considerable scale. What we are criticizing is that those who have the responsibility to ensure that there are so great problems today with the financing of the social and welfare state, namely those in politics, those at the head of state institutions, whether social security, the National Bank or other institutions, have been excluded from these spasms. Although they burden the diligent citizens, they want to pull their heads out of the loop themselves. We have convened this special meeting to hear from you whether it is intended to finally make order even in the "privileged pregnant" structures of our state. The criticism that has come from the governmental parties, namely that there would be no need to hold an extra-tourist session, which is a abuse by the liberals, must be rejected in a massive way! Ladies and gentlemen! We have requested the first extra-tourist session of this Parliament in connection with the planned forced retirement of Mr Primarius Poigenfürst at the General Insurance Institute, with the result that it was then withdrawn. We have requested another special meeting which has affected the problems of agriculture in relation to the EU in order to ensure the promised measures for farmers. There has at least been a joint decision which has caused a reduction in the cost of domestic agriculture of 500 million schilling. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That is not the question! The question is, would it not be up-to-date in 20 hours?]] We, Mr Schieder, have also called for a special session on the problem of "consumer", because you yourself have not been willing to talk about the issue of the loss of thousands of jobs in your red empire only once. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Whether this is not up to date tomorrow is the question!]] We have always argued, Mr Schieder, very up-to-date, and we have also discussed the question of alliance for work here in the context of a special meeting. The Federal Government is once again lagging behind and a week later held a summit of the social partners, in which basically those confessions which were refused here in Parliament were made. It would have been better to decide here in Parliament to take measures in the fight against unemployment than a week later to muffle unbindingly behind the closed doors of the social partners. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We now have the feeling that on 17 November, we will be able to find a solution to this problem. In December the National Council was elected, but there is a great labour unrest. The National Council can work because there is a government that has been left in office by the Federal President. Of course, the National Council can deal with all the initiatives that come from it. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Tomorrow is a meeting!]] What is it that prevents you, Mr Arbitrator, from finally dealing with those questions that... tomorrow! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Tomorrow is the meeting!]] Tomorrow!, say all lazy people who don't want to work today. That's quite logical! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want, Mr Schieder, that the Austrian National Council does not consist of 183 Members, who only register – and they do cash well, namely millions each month – but we want a National Council working, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Leiner]] That is the aim of the liberals – and not to sit here and cash, but not to do any work for the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Axle and oillingers.]] Now the "right" is on it! That is why I say to you, Minister of State: We shall not have to make any amendments to this effect by means of a regulatory reform by the four other political groups. As a matter of fact, everyone knows that, in connection with the planned tax measures, we need to make an order also in the field of the privilege economy. This is one of the structural changes. Other points are: Elimination of the principle of casting cans, modification of the 28 social security institutions with their enormous administrative burden, introduction of a public service bill, approximation of pension rights, "dodging" of tax loops and much more. In particular, however, we are dealing with the question of privilege. That is why we feel it is unfortunate that the other political groups were not prepared to adopt an agenda in accordance with our request. In fact, it is a sign of disregard for Parliament's Rules of Procedure when a political group which has the opportunity to make a request and the others say: There is no agenda, we do not want to express our opinion on this. We note that the government parties – red and black – have no opinion on the issues of the reduction of privileges in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the fact that the two opposition parties here are crying – the Liberals and the Greens – is particularly interesting, for Mrs. Dr. Schmidt of the Liberal Forum has still strongly criticized this special meeting, while her colleague Peter – today – has quickly stated in an issue that these political privileges are a great nuisance that must be overcome in the first place. What is the point in your group, should we now act or continue to see how the privileges, which are also an nuisance to Mr Peter, will not be eliminated? – You can also say: In the evening the sloth will be diligent! If we become an initiative, you are offended, but if you are forced to work here, then admit that there is an urgent need for renovation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have requested this special session with good law, because the question of political privileges and privileges in this country as a whole is one that has been working on this Parliament for many years and for decades. I have been here since 1979 and have repeatedly been concerned with this question. We've achieved a lot. I remember resisting the introduction of full taxation of political charges. I remember how you acted against it when we said: Only a paid political function. – It was a sacrile to just discuss something like that. In the meantime, all these things have been removed. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Götz!]] You can only talk about political mummy, but I have very current cases that I will quote from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the impression – and this also arises if you look at the recent comments in the newspapers – that even the well-sunned press of the government is of the opinion: Government parties, in turn, plan to carry out a massive wave of stress without a reduction in privileges. An article of the "press" of the weekend reads: Rising revenue for members of the government. It introduces a new model. Mr Schlögl State Secretary and President Neisser base their efforts on a new model by which Mr. Fleischhacker said in the "Small Newspaper": This can only be referred to as a late carnival joke, as Mr Neisser believes that even now one should make one's own pension fund for politicians – at a time when everyone knows that pension systems are too unified, Mr Neisser. The best thing you can do is to standardize towards ASVG – this also applies to politicians. This is the way to go, and not here to try to calm down the population with any nebulous ideas. I am already looking at how the population will react if at the end what the press wrote: that in the future Mr. X will receive no more than 200 percent of the salary of the head of the section, but 250 to 300 percent. We believe that there is a massive burden on the population, but at the same time a significant improvement in salaries should be imposed at the level of ministers. Federal Minister! The "Company" Austria has been maneuvered into a crisis by this Federal Government. In each company, it is obvious that, if a crisis has been brought about, management will have the primary responsibility to take over the management. It would therefore only be legitimate and cheap if you made the proposal that each minister should receive a reduction in salary. After all, this "company" has been in debt to Austria, and those who have caused it should also take responsibility for it personally. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals will therefore propose today to provide for a 30 per cent reduction in contributions until the reorganisation of the government budget. Ladies and gentlemen! It will not be enough, as the Federal Chancellor said today after the meeting of the Council of Ministers, to set up a Commission. He's already on Kreisky's tracks: Whenever something has not worked, Kreisky has set up a commission. I myself have once experienced what the Commission is doing. A few years ago, when the heads of state had agreed with the federal government, they will put the political privileges in order – that is to say, with the help of the Commission – Zilk and the head of state in Lower Austria Ludwig, the chairman of this Commission, did not even admit which confidential and otherwise undeclared orders, charges and expenses were paid. It would have been clear that the Austrian Chancellor had about 200 000 S a month, but only the mayor of Vienna carried more than 330 000 S a month home. That's what you wanted to avoid. That's why it didn't happen. What we should do first, if we reduce privileges, is – I think, that is also in the sense of what social democracy is calling for again and again – that we decide here in a law that there is a general disclosure obligation for all public incomes, so that we know what is really going on, so that we do not always have to research in a detective way what it is all about. There should be a general disclosure of all public income – from social security policy to the state institutions. There it is said: The politicians can't give up anything anymore!, Mrs. Ederer gave an interview and said: We politicians don't let us take away any more! And the Federal Chancellor today said: It must also be taken into account that the political mandates have to work on the weekend, they are on the weekend!, I must say already: A few idealism is likely to be demanded by the Members of Parliament. [[Calls.]] You're excited again, but you only need to agree to our requests, then underline your idealism, which the Federal Chancellor has promised you this morning. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All these commissions have so far not led to anything. The Socialist Party decided in 1989 at the Federal Party's meeting that no more mandate can be earned than the Federal Chancellor. To date, this decision has not been implemented. The mayor of Vienna, Häupl, is still carrying his 230 000 s through the area; until recently he has earned even more than 300 000 s. I do not know how to reconcile this with the decision of the party. Until recently, the Federal Chancellor had probably used a "small" rent rate aid of 18 000 S per month to make a little compensation for the disgrace he had to endure by leaving behind the mayor income. But this is the case if a few, so to speak, are politically unreliable in functions that do not understand what the party's decision is. We therefore want to carry out all these things on a clear legal basis of a reform. We believe that now is the time to abolish the political pensions and transfer them to the ASVG system, ladies and gentlemen. The ASVG is to be assigned to the ASVG, where, in the context of the professional saving of pension provision, there is a real pension provision to be made. Everything else belongs to deleted. They will no longer be able to explain to the public that in three years, some 180 million Schillings will be paid to politicians' pension contributions, but over 1.1 billion Schillings will already be used for benefits. This can no longer be financed; not even with your own pension fund, colleague Neisser. This is why we should take the clear path: Harmonization towards ASVG-pensions. If you all want to be representatives of the people, then let those laws that you believe in the people apply to you, then you are also credible as a political representative of the population – otherwise put You're better than the population! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I hear again and again that a new income pyramid is being crafted. What is to be done if all possible sources are still open, Minister of State? – An income pyramid, which then looks like the Styrian country president of your party, the second, has its 106 000 S country president’s salary, but then still gets 50 000 S as an official without him doing anything? Or that in Carinthia one has a former socialist head of state, who is now a clubman and becomes head of the department and court, without ever seeing his office before? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course. I'm not ready yet, I'm coming to all the parties to speak. I believe that it is a problem that must be put to the impression of all the parties that today, in the field of public officials who have political functions, we really have no order. Let's take the opportunity to make some sort of order now. I quote your colleague Grandman from the Socialist Party in Carinthia, former State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr Maitz: Deputy Member Ebner!]] I come to point out that you do not need to worry, Mr President, otherwise I have to quote some steiric truth to you again so that you can understand what I mean. Mr Grossmann said in an interview on the question of double references officials and politicians: For officials, a political activity is a social rise. He earns a total of 25 000 s net a month more, can buy his wife a fur coat and will defend his position with hands and claws. The taxpayers then cost these officials twice as much: once as an official, as he does not carry out the service, and once as a Member. There will be no change because I've never seen anyone cut off his finger. – This is what your colleague Grandman of the SPÖ says; not a liberal! I too am saying this, ladies and gentlemen, and these are your words. Your people are thinking in this direction. That is why we liberals have also imposed on themselves the voluntary ban on income. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's the difference with you. They are large in cashing, we are, in fact, an exemplary political group in the matter of sparing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're very good at posterting. You pasted: Get away with the... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Please? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You seem to be interested in the subject. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Please explain to me why, for example, socialist Members of the European Parliament or the MP Moser from the Liberal Forum, the privilege of retiring as an official at the light of the age of 46 or 47 years is not possible, without the possibility of finding that he can actually work again to recover these politicians. This has been regulated just a few weeks ago. They all agreed here that, although each official can be taken back from the early retirement, a politician who himself went to the early retirement to exercise his mandate can only be recovered from the pension if he makes the request. You decided this a few weeks ago and now you want to pretend everything's all right. If you are willing to correct this procedure again, I am on your side. Another point: the finalisations in politics. They have a sample example in their own series in Vienna: Mrs. Smejkal. She switches from the chair of a state councillor for social matters to the chair of a country day president and funds 1.8 million schilling. This is, of course, socialist policy, of course: You have to do something for the weak. In any case, however, it is unclean and immoral, as has been done here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, still have the problem of multifunctionaries. If you want to grab the people in the bag, you also have to remove these "storys". [[Abg. Rider: Where?]] Where? – I can tell you a few multifunctionaries, Mrs Colleague: for example, your multifunctional trimmer from the construction and woodworkers union. He is the head of the construction and woodworkers' union, the chairman of the building workers' holiday fund, ÖGB Vice-President, Landtagsreiter in Vienna, the first deputy to the General accident insurance institution and the board of directors. But no one can tell me that one who performs two, four, or even six functions is really so proficient. Where's your decision-making? You spoke of a paid political function. Mr Hostasch will also have to explain how this works in your case, that several functions will suddenly be performed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we want to do in the context of this debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That was also said to you by the ÖVP. You still have your multifunctionaries, even though you promise in your brochures at every choice – we have them here – that there is no longer a cumulation of functions and references. What about Deputies Klubobmann Böhm in Lower Austria? He registers as a clubman in the Lower Austrian Landtag 136 000 S; as an official – exempt from the service – fourteen times 50 000 S; as a public service social security officer 22 000 S monthly; as a deputy officer of the Public Service Trade Union 36 000 S monthly. That's a very nice salary, ladies and gentlemen. You cannot say that you are really persuading what you promised the voters! It looks very different. What's the matter with these "booms" you still have in your ranks? People don't understand that they are told before the election: Save it, but it's fair, and after that it all looks very different. A zero-son round is now being carried out for the "small" officials, even the ASVG-pensionist is said: Everything is now frozen with you. And this, although the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has informed before the elections that the ÖVP wants to take care of pensions and he will therefore secure pensions; there is no problem there. At the Austrian National Bank, pensions and salaries were now increased by 2.6 percent, with the Austrian Bundesbahnen by 3.9 percent. I wonder, Is there two classes of citizens in that country or in what respects is there being done in that Republic? Keywords: Karenz money. The carnage money must be kept, it's called. At the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, each woman receives additional karenz money, but the "normal mortal" in Austria we reduce it. But in there we pay an additional 2 750 s per month, Mr Sozialminister. And that in a state institution dominated by red and black, where it would be easy to make your savings proposals – if you take them seriously – really for everyone, instead of simply asking those who live in the risk area to check out. Next point: Overtime. Overtimes are taxed, overtime supplements will be lost according to your perceptions in different areas. However, the works councils and staff representatives are still on duty-free with full wage compensation including overtime fees. Keywords: Schooling. Minister! They say that in future schooling will no longer be based on pensions. The same applies to the study period. You have to buy these years. That's all right. But if an Austrian with 30 000 S gross income in the private sector wants to buy a year's pension, it will cost him between 26 000 S and 53 000 S depending on schooling or study time – one year! If that is what a member of the Social Security Institute wants to do, Mr. Federal Minister, then it costs him not 53 000 S but 3 600 S. One who buys his entire training period pays about 350 000 S. As a social security worker, he pays only 35 000 p. Please tell us why such things will continue to be maintained here! Or the "Worstsemmel" decree. Everything has to be paid off. The worker must charge any voluntary benefit of his holding which is granted to him, for example, during jause periods. The meat cream must also be taxed. At the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, on the other hand, lunch is subsidized for the millions of earners, for the directors, with 100 s. – Is it necessary to throw the millions out? Wouldn't it be better to make order in the sense of a model effect? Another point is the zero-one round for officials, while playing with the politicians with an income pyramid that will make more sense for the ministers. The NOVA increase in car makes driving more expensive for every donor, for everyone driving to work; at the same time, however, this government has a desire for the service cars that it is immense. New things are constantly being acquired, although the public is being presented with something else. There you have to make some sort of order so that you can become credible when it comes to austerity policy in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Save in the top functions of the state administration. The Minister of Climate is well aware of this: In the Federal Chancellor's Office alone, a 265-post increase in planning posts has been carried out in recent years. 265 top positions! When I get the individual documents available to us, I see that there have been groups and departments created without numbers. Like the swams after the rain, they have multiplied. And that's what you're talking about saving? This is a bloating of the administrative area! That's what you're talking about saving – no, you can't go to the opera ball, because the glass of sect could lead the Republic to disaster. But the same Mr. Bundeskanzler, who, with his categorisation of the opera ball, wants to demonstrate a savings family, buys around 1.5 million Schilling Augarten-Porzellan, so that he can easily bring down the morning coffee he is given there in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are things where you have to make some sort of order! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There, too, you should show a bit of a model effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course! It's nothing for you. You're used to dealing with Augarten-Porzelan. But the Republic of Austria must also show at the top of the picture when it comes to saving. And I believe that there should also be appropriate signals for the population. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yeah, yeah. I think it's unpleasant to you, because that's what people understand and say: You are so serious about saving that in these areas you are not at all ready to go on with a real example! Mr Nürnberger said on television that the abandonment of real wages in the future is a possible alternative to wage policy. Mr. Häupl says: Savings are also a means of relinquishing real wages. But at the same time, there is a decree by which every prisoner from 1st century onwards. There will be an increase in his indemnity. Yes, do you think that you can make it clear to the Austrians that we are putting the prisoners better than those who "hock" in this Republic? Enjoy it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has dedicated a comment to you today, one that is very weighted to you, in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – Mr. Andreas Koller. He wrote: "Political lies are more than unreasonable – they are stupid." [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's you!]] Political lies, ladies and gentlemen, have you made no number in connection with the political decisions of the last few months. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's what you're talking about!]] Her experience is that Mrs Ederer has told the people that they will save 1,000 s per family when Austria joins the European Union. Nothing's wrong with that! Where is the truth of this argument? Even the workers' chamber says if there are 200 s savings, it's a lot. The anonymity of the savings books: They have said that when we go to the EU, it is negotiated that the anonymity of the savings books will not be affected. Result: Now we have the debate! The EU writes to us that we must give up anonymity. You didn't even negotiate it. They have negotiated everything else, just not about the anonymity of the savings books. They claim something quite different in the public. They place, women's rights must not be abused. But the karenz money is now suddenly reduced. Pensions for women are getting worse. Even the trade union newspaper writes in the pre-week edition of "Solidarity": If the pay is reduced, more women will be forced away from the labour market. This writes the same trade union, which co-exists with the government and will bring this savings package and these tax measures to the stage. This is a double-duty argument, how it can no longer be annoyed. The Federal Chancellor promises to create new jobs. Now we have the greatest unemployment in Austria in the last decades. The development of Maculan should actually satisfy us with some concern. It is not just 8 000 jobs in total, but 2 500 jobs at risk in Austria. And now the question arises why the two gentlemen of the State Bank, Mr. Randa from Bank Austria and Mr. Kothbauer from CA, have been involved in the Supervisory Board for so long, what they knew, why they have been silent, and whether the company is just before 17. In December, he wanted to talk about whether this is not a question of negligent Krida, which all Austrians are allowed to do now, by having to spend huge amounts of money on the insolvency fund in order to get Maculan's pleite as a tennis and golf friend of a certain family. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the things that fill us with concern. And then Mr. Stummful of the Economic Federation says in an issue of 23. February of this year: The measures taken by the Federal Government in relation to the economy are an attack on the basis of trust, which is a violation of trust and faith because, in particular, the removal of the loss proposal is immense. Foreign investors, says Mr. Stummvoll, are already asking the Chamber of Commerce whether Austria is a banana republic. – Of course, if this continues, we will not secure new jobs, but we will get more problems in this area. They said there would be no pension reductions. Now you freeze in the ASVG area, now you introduce a penalty tax to the officials – what you have said doesn't happen. Mr Feurstein nods by chance because he thinks that, before the election, the EIA has always been accused of introducing a penalty tax. Now, Mr Hums of SPÖ has suddenly accepted the possibility of a double-percent tax for officials. Or: There must be no contradiction between the profession and the family. Now, suddenly, the karenz money is reduced. The kindergarten billion is untangled into the infinite, which there is no longer at all. The retirement periods for women have been increased dramatically. Youth as the most important capital must be promoted, says the Federal Government, says the Federal Chancellor. Now, in foreign languages, instead of going here and saying: Let us see if we can improve the teaching obligations. Teachers are supposed to be more in school, have fewer other activities and take more care of the children so that we do not need so much remedial education. These would be rehabilitation measures, where you could surely acquire earnings in the structures at the moment. Or – if I only read it –: Halali on employees, time for entrepreneurs! Socialists have said before the election when the trial party and the shark party come to power, then the extension of the daily normal working time threatens to take 10 to 13 hours. The removal of overtime surcharges, the removal of overtime tax. In difficult times, your partner – the Socialist Party. [[Call to the liberals:Haha!]] That was the promise. Now I read that, according to Mr Sallmutter, up to ten hours will be worked at the normal rate, for which each tenth hour, for which an overtime supplement is currently granted, would be credited to an account for a time balance of 15 to 20 minutes. – So Sallmutter was in the press a few days ago. Highly interesting! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well, that's a union!]] How easy to use You say goodbye to your constituencies! You are lucky that you do not live in Poland, because in Poland, at least the election promises are acquitable. There, Walesa has already been held responsible before the Supreme Court because he has broken the election promises. You can't pay it any more if you have to settle all that you have to justify in broken elections here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What we want to say to you is: It is not understandable for the Austrian, who is very willing to save that these structures do not apply to these protected areas – whether this is the electricity industry or the social security institutions. This is not a procedure for the fact that, according to the Rosin theory, the staff in the social security institutions are doing their job. There are employees who receive an official-like pension with 80 percent of the last deal and a settlement as in the private sector. There are officials who spend up to 64 000 s a month on voluntary relations. Mr. Federal Minister, where is your sense of justice? But where is the saving fair? Instead of driving in here, grab the "little" people in the bag, remove the overtime supplements and the overtime. That's what we criticize. We talk about the cessation of Pragmatization among officials, but in the chamber organizations – as in the Federal Chamber of Commerce – Pragmatization is purchased by the staff there with a special pension right, which in turn causes 2 billion schilling costs. This is paid by the chamber members in the Austrian industrial economy. Ladies and gentlemen! That doesn't make any sense. And that is why we have said that you should think about how to put a fairer version of your savings proposals to the vote in the Austrian Parliament, including the Austrian National Bank. For she too is a great money safer, where privileges exist without numbers, and this money, which is used there for privileges, cannot benefit as dividends of the Republic of Austria. Considering on your own that for pension systems in the Austrian National Bank, where you promised years ago, you wanted to fix this now, for not even 1,000 people pension deposits of 23 billion Schilling have been deposited – 23 billion schilling for not even 1,000 pensioners! And the current pensions are paid out of the current profits of the National Bank: 850 million schilling last year! Ladies and gentlemen! They cannot explain to the "small" pensioner with 6 000 S to 7 000 S that he does not get an adjustment, but that in these areas of the Austrian National Bank, where Red and Blacks ultimately have the saying, these things are not fixed; where for six directors and for retired directors 67 million Schillings per year are spent, where one has a supplementary scheme, after which every family can receive up to 3 300 S of special family support, while at the same time one takes away something from the Austrians who do not live in the protected area, because one is supposed to have no more money. At the same time, one is financing an additional 2 750 S karenz money and even buys an annual network card in Vienna for every employee. Every donor has to pay more today because it is said that no money is available. With the officials you delete the anniversary fees, with the National Bank there are for 20-, for 30-, for 40-year-old fidelity free of charge three months. Health insurance is paid by the company itself to two thirds. Explain She is a worker who can no longer drop his health insurance for his family because he loses the special write-off because the Minister of Climate Change needs money. Explain that in the National Bank, just because the red and black rulers want it so, the company pays for the supplementary health insurance and does not change at all, and the billions are only so embroiled. Or: Additional holidays and discharges. 17.5 months' salary is paid to everyone there. This is a fine thing, almost as good as at the union, where someone, if he was there for 25 years as a staff member, gets 24 months pay compensation. On the other hand, every worker who has worked for 25 years receives a maximum of twelve monthly salaries. – This is also a question of justice. Or: They suffer from deterioration in the pension system today. – At the Oesterreichische Nationalbank you pay only from 1993 – only from this point on! – a ridiculous amount of 2% to pensions. And those who have re-entered after this date pay 5%. Where's the relationship for God's sake? – No pension insurance contributions and no school and study periods have to be purchased, there is everything included. After 35 years you can go to the early pension, which is now being fought. But in the protected areas of red and black everything remains unchanged, and that costs 23 billion schilling! There everyone will be equipped with supplements shortly before he retires. – In this context, I call the head of the Banknote and Coin Bank: He gets, when he retires, another interim allowance, as it is so beautiful – no one knows what this is really good for! – although he already has a reference of 101 000 S! In addition, he receives a functional allowance of 25 363 S, a second functional allowance of 17 000 S, an overtime fee of 19 000 S and, finally, this interim allowance of 8 940 S, so that he has at last 177 000 S and retires at 150 000 S 15 times a year. I could mention examples without number, up to the favoured apartments. The millions of earners in the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen, who have 2 or 3 million Schilling annual Gage – and of these there are many – live in the favors of the city of Vienna around 17 s per square meter. – In view of the fact that this is just, how do you explain it? This problem has not yet been addressed! Actually, this is the impetus of our initiative. We say: Please think about it! For it is not a question of asking those who work in the unprotected area, only because it is easy to go there, but one does not change anything in the areas where your positions of power are concerned, because you can easily take away something from your friends and get billions there! I tell you, Minister: If you don't save in these areas, then Your suffrages of trying to save justly are certainly inconceivable. I believe that this is the least one must agree on: There must be fair savings measures, and you too must be prepared to jump over your shadows and to tell Parliament indisputably what more will happen in politics and in social security institutions, with the National Bank and the electricity companies and many other protected areas. For I am convinced that the restoration, as it is currently set up, will not succeed. They do not need to believe that we will allow the masses of citizens to face new taxes. They also meet a lot of little ones. The energy tax alone hits the "small" people quite massively because it increases the monthly rental costs. That is why we will also have to talk about the issue of the housing law on public utility. For there is probably the possibility that the cooperatives will be forced to make sure that they do not, if the annuities for the repayment of the loans have already been cancelled, continue to charge as high rents as would still be credited.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3556	Please put to the conclusion, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3578	We must ensure that these measures are finally put in place so that there is a real balance in the social dimension of this package debate. I appeal to you, Minister of State: If you really intend to achieve a reasonable solution, it can only be found in the context of those measures of the reduction of privileges which we have quoted here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3611	I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to answer the urgent question. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e3632	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Without wishing to pool from the government bank, I would like to make a preliminary observation on this urgent question on the subject of privileges. Some ladies and gentlemen of the F enjoy the privilege of knowing why one gives me the privilege of answering a request that is almost half of the points, but not within my area of responsibility. – That’s my first comment. Secondly, Mr. Dr. Haider! Also allow me a personal remark: In your appearance against supposed or genuine privileges, you would gain credibility from my point of view if you – here too – openly appeal to some privilege within your movement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I did that! You didn't watch!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could call you three cases right away. . I would just like to remind you that Robin Hood himself was slender and made sure of his order in his ranks. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I believe that you are actually addressing a very important issue. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then you will never become a Robin Hood, Minister!]] I would like to admit that I intend to make a point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to speak in advance of a privilege that we should not abolish: In recent weeks, when you have read foreign comments in the written and electronic media – including from countries where there is a much higher unemployment rate, a much higher level of inflation and interest rates than in Austria and thus the situation is far worse than in Austria – you could find very admiring remarks about an "Austrian privilege" in it. In this context, "Austrian privilege" means that in Austria, in this situation, those who are responsible in this country – from the citizens to the social partners to the representatives of the cities, communities and countries and the government parties – want to create two things at the same time: They want to put in place concrete measures to secure employment in the future, to provide jobs for young people and older people, and at the same time to make it possible for the Austrian government budget to regain the increased capacity for action that we need in the future in possible difficult times. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of the fact that, in cooperation with the citizens, with the social partners who have often been mocked, with the countries and communities and with the political parties of this joint act of strength in Austria, we are beginning and being carried out. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] Allow me to point out a few concrete measures in the context of the necessary employment security, because unfortunately they are always very little in the foreground. For one thing must be clear to us: All our measures against early retirement or against abuse in the social system – I call the unemployment sector and the like – all of our measures to get people into employment earlier and to stay in employment for longer only make sense if we can also offer employment. Therefore, it is the main concern of the Federal Government to launch an employment programme which not only stimulates new, intelligent financing ideas in the field of infrastructure, road construction, construction, railway construction, housing financing or increasing the investment-free amount in the short term, but also, in particular, to create new opportunities for employment in the medium and long term through efforts in the field of an export offensive. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a subject that needs to be dealt with here: How do we support the Austrian companies in their export activity? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who prevents you from doing so?]] We are a small country and dependent on the export results of our economy, Mr President. Much is needed for this. For example, it is necessary to change project financing to new common financing ideas. The Austrian banks have developed a model to ensure that we can also succeed in terms of the growing markets in Southeast Asia. For example, it is important that we offer the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to have a home by setting up and setting up farm parks in Southeast Asia or North Africa. Because it is much more difficult for a small company to take such a leap. It is also important for us, for example, to create joint export support for the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises through commercial houses. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But stupidly will defend itself!]] – All these are measures on which the social partners and the coalition government agree, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important to focus on the training measures, in the field of vocational colleges, the vocational training of skilled workers, the over-company teaching workshops, but also in the field of university training and to make these institutions closer to the economy and closer to the profession than is the case today. Similarly, it is important – including both coalition parties, the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democratic Party – to do everything we can to facilitate young people's reasons for business, from the start-up to the venture capital. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you would not only deal with supposed privileges, you could have seen measures in this direction at the last export offensive event of the Control Bank: There's a technology offensive. It is planned that the Technological Fund will receive a billion schilling to strengthen Austrian industrial enterprises in the field of technology. [[A cell phone is ringing in the plenary room.]] Is that Ö-Call, or is that a GSM phone? [[Congratulations, cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't think I've got a cell phone. Ladies and gentlemen! This programme of an employment offensive could be enriched with new ideas, if any, because that is the essential point. Secondly, on this consolidation package you have addressed. [[Abg. Böhacker: load package!]] This consolidation package, even if you now call it a tax package, affects all the population groups about the percentage corresponding to their share of value added in gross domestic product. This is known because there is a distribution study on the effects of this package. Ladies and gentlemen! This time no one will be able to get up and say: I'm not affected by this package. This will not be said, in particular, by top earners and earners. We have tried, and we have also succeeded in including all types of income in the consolidation efforts. The corporate tax on enterprises is as affected as the income tax on self-employed persons, such as income from interest income and capital investments, such as short-term, insurance savings and the like, but also inheritance income and so on. That is to say, we have tried to ensure that the third revenue-based measures actually carry out a reasonable, socially just, balanced distribution. If you look at it, you will find that the corporate tax revenue of about 30 billion schilling will be increased by 25 percent, i.e. by 7.5 billion schilling. The revenue from the estimated income tax of 29 billion schilling is increased by about 15 percent, i.e. 4.5 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Mr. Dr. Haider! I'll talk to you immediately! The wage tax is raised in a form which I consider to be socially acceptable. As you know, from an income of 250 000 S to 500 000 S, the general amount of the deposit is to be cut off. They know that from 500 000 S to 700 000 S the special expenditure scheme will be cut down and will only be removed from a high income of 700 000 S. You also know that there are progressive measures across all levels of income. And these include, above all, multi-earners, such as managers who have installed overtime payrolls in their salary, and others more. The 50 per cent overtime is now only taxed up to a limit which corresponds to approximately the maximum basis of assessment or maximum contribution of 39 000 s. We can show you by means of tables that, as promised in the election campaign, lower incomes are less and, as a percentage, higher incomes are more contributing to this socialisation package. That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, has been promised and subsequently held: It comes to a social and just saving. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was planned to save two thirds on the expenditure side, which is about 66 billion schilling. And we have undertaken to do so very systematically, namely to achieve the success of 1995 in 1997. And I do not agree that this has, for example, been a very challenging step in the field of human resources, while the trade unions and staff representatives have a high level of responsibility for the welfare of the State, which are certainly not daily for a public service trade union. It is not daily, for example, if one does not make a percentage increase, but only one-time payments, and if, for example, what a structural success against early retirement is, one must make sure that someone before 60 years old. In the same way as in the ASVG, the age of pension is reduced by 2 per cent per year. This is quite justified by the subject of insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I can say to your reassurance: It has been clearly said to the trade unions during the negotiations that we call on all public institutions to understand the conclusion of the public service in their systems. So, as compensation for example, the ÖBB 1997 will naturally make a zero-one round. A corresponding letter will be sent to all social security institutions, as well as to the ORF and all public-law bodies. This is, I believe, the solidarity that is needed to keep this savings package as a whole. It is also in a second area, in that of social transfers, in a very responsible cooperation, which I believe has come under control, which follows this principle of protecting the weak and where it is possible to save something. The most popular process – I say quite openly – of social staggering, for example in the area of family allowances or birth grants, is not possible for constitutional reasons. We have therefore chosen different forms. – Let me give you an example: In this context, I would like to address the question of women as a whole, if I may put it this way. First: The birth grant will apply to those births after 31. 12. In 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and Until then, there is a transitional arrangement whereby those payments which take place in 1996 are still being made. There will be support of 1 000 s twelve times a year, ladies and gentlemen, for those socially weak people who are not able to obtain leave allowances and are under the compensation allowance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] A second comment: The age limit for early retirement due to reduced workability, a very common pension, remains in women at 55 years of age, in men it is increased to 57 years of age. I hope you won't offend us now because this limit has been lowered for women. Thirdly, On the question of leave, it was clarified: ==References====External links== The old rules apply in July 1996. A balance stop will be created from the proceeds of privatisation and thus provided for them. Fourth: Special emergency aid may be used by the women concerned after a year and a half – for the duration of one year. Fifth, you open a bottle We will ensure that the adjustment table for early retirement due to long periods of insurance – an increase of 420 to 450 months – is designed in such a way that women are not surprised and can still retire at 55 years. ==References== In January 1997 the first step towards the early retirement pension was made because of a long period of insurance. Sixteenths: In the area of the European Union, co-financed by Austria, more than half a billion schilling is available for measures in the field of childcare by 1999. This is already provided by EU programmes and the corresponding co-financing by Austria. So there are a number of measures that concern both the family and the women – they are perhaps not well known in the public – which are generally socially compatible as a package from my point of view. I would also like to say something to the students you mentioned, Mr Klubobmann and Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't mention them!]] They are mentioned in the request, in the written text. It's yours, isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't mention it here!]] Okay. We have kept the family allowance at a high value of 1,950 p.m. for students. But please understand that we link the grant of family aid to a semi-student study success, as I say now. In other words, if a person completes his studies during the planned study period plus one year, he is not at all affected by the measure to limit family allowances. In addition: We generally reduce the limit from 27 to 26 years, but those who have previously completed the presence or civil service continue to be the age limit of 27 years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The one who worked has a disadvantage!]] Mr President, I should like to thank This question is very easy to answer: The provisions of this Regulation shall apply: Study duration plus two semesters. For as long as the family allowance is paid. This has nothing to do with the age of life. [[Further call of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It used to be 27 years old, and now it's 26 years old. However, the presence or civil service is included. They want to do it themselves, I suppose that everyone is already taking up the presence or civil service before. Then the border stays at 27 years. So it doesn't change at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You said no polemics!]] The new negotiations on financial compensation have been a very important point in the fastening of this savings package. I should like to stress the high level of responsibility of the countries and communities which have committed themselves in these financial compensatory negotiations to keep their annual deficit to 0.3% of the gross domestic product – a huge effort by the countries and the municipalities, which will only be possible if, as agreed, they also extend the salary of the public service to their employees and, as planned, add additional savings measures in their own field. It has also succeeded – and I would like to say this clearly: in this programme a number of structural improvement measures that will have a very sustainable impact are included – to reach a clear, precise agreement on the issue of the financing of hospitals. It was agreed with the countries and communities by the end of March to clarify the question of the plan of hospitals, the cover by country with the prospect of supporting the federal government to solve these problems, including the question of host patients. Summary: I believe that this consolidation package is rightly accepted by the Austrian population because it is socially balanced and fair. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's what we're looking at!]] This is more honoured by the Austrian population and this interest they more than a privilege debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now on your specific questions. Question 1: From 1990 to 1994 – for 1995 there are no figures available – politicians' assets have developed as follows: 248.8 million, 260.7 million, 271.3 million, 289.5 million, and in 1994 there was even a slight decline to 289.2 million – including Members' relations and everything there is. In 1995, the level was like 1994 as there were no increase in reference levels in the previous year. From 1990 to 1994, the pension schemes were as follows: 204 million, 223.7 million, 233.7 million, 244 million in 1993, and 248.5 million in 1994. Ladies and gentlemen! Your questions 2 to 9 can be answered in a summary: The rights and obligations of politicians are laid down in the relevant law, which Parliament has so decided. Similarly, the rights of politicians in a service relationship with the Confederation are regulated by law, namely in the Civil Service Law 1979; this law was also passed by the National Council. With regard to the problem of actual or alleged double references and the retirement of politicians, I would point out that it is in many rows – including yours! – there are many officials who use or use these rights. Ladies and gentlemen! I can still say this – which is also true of our sense of justice –: A working group of SPÖ and ÖVP has developed a reform package for the remuneration of politicians, which will bring about a federal and transparent regime, and as soon as the detailed details are established, this scheme will be presented and implemented. On the question 10, on the question of the National Bank: Service and pension regulations are laid down in the National Bank Act. They are based on decisions of the General Council and the Executive Board of the Austrian National Bank and cannot be influenced by me. This does not mean, however, that there is no need for reform, I say it with all the emphasis. On the contrary: It has the task of making service and pension adjustments in order to make an analogy to the right of service and pension of the public service. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who gave the order?]] The contract has already been awarded to the National Bank. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Who?]] Of the relevant bodies, by the General Council. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But not by the government!]] On the question 11: In Austria, there are currently general considerations about a general reorganisation of the pension system, and in this context, of course, the involvement of the Austrian National Bank is also envisaged. Question 12 concerns a question of execution which is not included in my department, in the Federal Ministry of Finance. Question 13: I assume that the planned savings measures of the Federal Government in the administrative field will also be implemented in the context of social security. It is intended to achieve a savings volume of around 200 million schilling in 1996 and, in 1997, such a figure of about 500 million schilling in these bodies. Question 14: Dear Mr. Klubobmann! In those companies which fall into my place of residence and in which maladministrations have been discovered by the Court of Auditors, these are, of course, abandoned by the socially competent bodies, as in the past. As far as the electricity industry is concerned, I assume that my colleague in the Ministry of Economic Affairs will do the same. Yes, as I said. This does not fall within the competence of the Federal Minister for Finance, as you will certainly know. Questions 15 and 16: If you look at the Supervisory Boards I am responsible for, such as the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG or the Supervisory Board of ÖBB, you will be able to determine: There are excellent representatives of the Austrian economy. With regard to the banks, I can tell you that the appointment of representatives of the Federal Government in supervisory functions with banks is carried out in accordance with the objective criteria laid down in § 76 Banking Act. On the question 17: The fiscal consolidation of expenditure is evident from the fact that in all major areas of expenditure of the Federal Government – personnel expenditure, administrative expenditure, social expenditure and support expenditure – benefits are frozen at 1995 level for two years. This will significantly reduce the federal expenditure ratio, i.e. federal expenditure in relation to gross domestic product. On the other hand, the revenue ratio is kept stable. On the question 18: I don't know what's going on. They are given the impression that the consolidation measures affect families unilaterally. They are not unilaterally burdened by these measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] For example, Mrs Collaborative: The single-earner deposit amount remains unchanged. Please read! A little information would certainly help. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are, I believe, the only one who does not believe this!]] It is clear, I believe, that except for the period of study. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Socially in need will be compensated for the birth grant, Mrs Colleague. Otherwise, there are no deletions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What is the energy tax? Without limitation of pay extra costs, this is stupid!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! Because you are addressing the energy levy, I would remind you of what you – I have prepared for the TV discussion with you very carefully and have proposed to me about the F's economic programme: 42 billion Schilling tax revenue as an energy tax, while at the same time relieving the energy-intensive industry. - Who would have paid for this, Mr. Collegue? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Have you read correctly? Labour costs!]] Labour costs benefit companies, but not the families. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Jobs!]] The families should have paid five times, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Haider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 500,000 jobs will destroy you alone with this measure!]] Allow me to proceed and go on to question 19. I must make it clear that there is no intention of changing the co-insurance of students with parents. Of course, the study aid for socially needy students continues to be maintained; I am not just talking about the gift scholarship. Because you write that many have to drive to the places of study: Are you aware that this was not a free ride so far, for example, when a Carinthian travels to Vienna and returns on Friday or Saturday? That wasn't a free ride so far! That was a half-price ride. At 140 s there is a half-price ride at the ÖBB. That has not changed at all! And the use of inner urban transport costs for the entire zone 1 of the transport network in Vienna, as far as I know, 300 S per month. The increased family allowance for students by about 500 S remained unchanged. I believe, of course, that we can also expect the students to have their share in this savings package. But we can rightly say that this is not an disproportionate share. Question 20: That's where I've got some understanding problems. A company in the start-up phase is subject to the loss premium from 1989 and 1990? That's fucking long! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Six to seven years!]] That's what it says: In the start-up phase, the loss premium for 1989 and 1990 is being removed. – However, the company has a long start-up phase if it had a loss presentation from 1989 and 1990. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: consolidation phase! Don't be stupid.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you a very open and honest answer. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the long start phase of the state lights!]] Do they suddenly discover the heart for the nationalized? So it's pretty slow, it's really curious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is undisputed that there are many companies in Austria that have to pay taxes suddenly for the profits they have generated. For God's sake, what is that drama? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Otherwise, nothing will be done. – What does that mean – Mr colleague, you are a specialist! – that the loss report in the 1996/97 balance sheet cannot be considered? – That it does not reduce the profit from which the tax is calculated. So a company that is so bad that it does not make any profits is not affected at all. [[Calls of the Abg. Böhacker and Rosenstingl.]] But I confess to: All the measures we have taken in the field of corporate tax – and these are very useful measures; you, as a specialist in business, Mr Rosenstingl, should, for example, complain about measures against... [[Other calls of the Abg. Böhacker and Rosenstingl.]] Has You might have something against flat-rate corrections? - I don't think so. Of course, these important measures, which have been put in place in the field of corporate tax law in 1996, can only take place at the time of payment of corporate tax in 1998. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: There is no longer any more!]] It is therefore necessary to make advance payments and not to apply loss payments in 1996 and 1997 so that we have the same revenue in 1996, 1997 and 1998. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: So little information are not even you!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, suddenly think that a company that pays 50 000 S of tax a year is going to end, then look at what an average employee pays for in the year. You know, honourable Member Rosenstingl, that capital companies – which is why they are being made – are still generally favoured, because they have the chance to use 34 per cent of Koest profits. So let's stay honest. I think that's a clean and proper solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 21: Do you know what the problem is? – That we have not raised the internationally important tax rate for Austria of 34 percent corporate tax and that we have nevertheless succeeded in firmly increasing income tax revenue and corporate tax revenue through measures against tax loopholes, against tax abuse. We may also have advantages; I was once the Chief Financial Officer of a large company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] There's no more? - But you're ill-informed. On Question No 21, I should like to point out that I have already dealt with these questions in detail in connection with karenz leave and birth grant in my introductory statement. On the question 22: If you are already fighting privileges, I do not at all understand how you can endorse the fact that, for example, the Gulfs – and as the cars may all be called – can be removed from the tax, not only in the purchase, but also in the operating expenditure. There's an blatant door for abuse open! That is why we agreed, in agreement with the economy, that all those who, like Monteure or Bakers, need these Fiscal trucks, i.e. cars with dislocated cabs, can continue to use them as Fiscal trucks. It is only the abuse, Mr Böhacker, that we have put off, and we stand by it, and you should also stand by it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already answered the question 23 concerning the loss talks. We will, of course, take constitutional concerns very seriously. The Federal Government will endeavour to obtain such an agreement on certain provisions in the National Council that they will also be protected accordingly. In question 24, the question of the suspension of the exemption decisions: Ladies and gentlemen! If, in 1996, we make adjustments in the area of wage tax assessment, for example in the case of special expenditure, we must prevent workers from having to pay back something. Otherwise, you would have to pay back something from your Sparkassa to the state. That's why we got one. In July 1996, the exemption was suspended. It will be about half-yearly. Moreover – and this is clear and clearly said – this is natural... [[Abg. Böhacker: And the interest rates?]] Mr President, I should like to thank You know, now it's enough slow. Do you know when companies pay corporate tax for winning in 1996? – 1998, my colleague! But that's not what you're interested in. These are details. I think that's clear. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not from the corporate tax, from the wage tax!]] [[Further calls from MEPs Böhacker and Rosenstingl.]] You know what? We'll go out and make a private body; all right? Question 25 with regard to the fiscal measures of the consolidation package: It is clear that these will lead to a sustainable increase in revenue. Together with the sustainable expenditure-side measures, the convergence criteria 1998 can be achieved according to planning. On question 26, as regards the standard consumption levy: I am aware that the European Commission has a procedure to do so. However, the increase in the standard consumption levy you are referring to is, in reality, merely an autocratic guide to the implementation of the current legal situation. Thus, the standard consumption levy is of common value in cases of self-import. This scale ensures that domestically purchased vehicles and self-imported vehicles are tax-equivalent. I think this is very important because we do not want to generate an advantage for self-imports. This corresponds not only to the nature of such a steering charge, but also to comparable foreign tax models classified by the ECJ as compatible with EU law. On the question 27: I would have liked to stand here and look at how you would have struck me if this consolidation package of 100 billion schilling had been made up of one-time measures made of privatisation proceeds. And today you ask me why we have not taken these privatisation measures into account in the consolidation package! "In contrast to the so far practised financial policy, what considerations gave the result of increasing the use of tax increases and not, as usual, using privatisations of federal assets and federal shares to consolidate the budget?" – Yes, but you would like to answer that question yourself, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You may still ask!]] First of all, you would have rightly given me the fact that such "sparing" measures are not sustainable. Secondly, your business experts may have already talked about the fact that asset disposals are not maastrelevant, i.e. they cannot be included in the calculation of the deficit in accordance with the Maastricht rules. That is a very simple answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Böhacker: How won, so torn!]] On the question 28, on the EU-conformity of the 13th. VAT prepayment: You know that after the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on 20 June, the Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 10. 1993, RsC 10/92, is allowed, VAT prepayments for completed periods – for completed periods! - to withdraw. As from the 1996 special prepayment, it is also planned to introduce a right of election between the payment of the special prepayment and the advance of the general prepayment period to the 15th of the following month. I can now answer the question 29: You also know, of course, that it does not make much sense to compare the net payment of a month, i.e. that of January 1996 with that of 1995, since the month of January 1996, as you can already see from the tax overview, includes EU transfers of around 7.3 billion schilling. The fall in VAT is due to the fact that, in the previous year, particularly high import turnover taxes of more than 11 billion schillings occurred, but this is now only about 2.5 to 3 billion shillings per month due to the changeover to labour taxes. In addition, this year’s special VZ will be offset at a much faster pace than in the previous year. Question 30, which is also a technical question: The assessment of the amount of tax after the success of individual months is very important, as short-term random fluctuations do not play a very significant role, as you know. [[Abg. Böhacker: You can still ask questions!]] You can ask anything! But you must not wonder about the answer! In addition, in the case of the capital income tax on interest rates, account should be taken of the fact that in January 1995 there was a fall over 1994 and in January 1996 an adjustment book of around 53 million schillings, which had been mistakenly recorded at the Kest 1 in December 1995. Alcohol taxation has been substantially changed with EU accession. The tax originally calculated in two approaches on spirits has now been summarized in one approach. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I have answered in detail, Mr Cot. Didn't you watch out? I'd like to read it to you again! I have, for example, addressed the question with self-import. Mr Haider, can you remember? Standard consumption levy, self-import. Company import, all this I've been talking about. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are except Obligo!]] Is that me? - Very good! Done! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for your attention. I believe that it is really important that a common responsibility arises here in the National Council, too, for those measures that are now needed in Austria; Measures carried out responsibly by the Austrian population which lead to more employment and which will allow the Austrian government's budget to be strengthened again in difficult times. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4223	That is what we are going to enter into the debate. The speaking time for all speakers is set at a maximum of 15 minutes each. First word message: Mr Mag. Stadler. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4247	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister Klima, who has been somewhat unchallenged by the socialists against us a week magazine and, as I say, has still inapplicablely called "Wappler" despite this lazily and lukewarm response, so Mr. Minister Klima has wondered... [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I'm proud of it!]] I say, "I am still inapplicable"! Excuse me? You're proud that you're a Wappler or if "NEWS" says that to you? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Yes, of course!]] Mr. Minister, if you prefer, I'll say "Wappler" to you in the future. If that's preferable to you, you're free in your hand. I believed it was a malice of socialist officials, the ultralefts in "NEWS" that they called you "Wappler". But if you say that this has happened at your own request, I would like to take note of it, Minister. Minister! You have asked us why you have the dubious "privileg" to be the address of the request of the Freeman today. . I will tell you, and I will also say it to the Federal Chancellor, who has now disappeared: Minister! We would like to discuss something more with you in the future and not more so much with the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor can be calmed in the future: We will rather deal with his successor as party chairman and as Federal Chancellor. That is why, Mr Federal Minister for Climate, They are the privilege of being treated by us in the future, because we like to deal with the future man within the Socialist Party because we like to think about the future and not deal with the already failed Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is scrutinizing in the opening holes and wants to become the Federal President. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We will be able to do that in the course of the Federal Presidency election campaign. Preliminary note two: They have said that with our foreign policy, we are damaging the Republic that we would make them bad that the economic data are better than the liberals had claimed in their request to you. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I didn't say that!]] It's all right. Federal Minister! I can remind you that your government partner was silent on 23 March. February this year, in a well-known economic newspaper, said that because of the zigzag economic policy of this Federal Government – which is also part of the ÖVP – it only repeatedly forgets in publications – already questions from abroad come to the Federal Chamber, whether Austria had become a "banana republic". – Ladies and gentlemen! This is your government partner who obviously returns the echo of the "Banana Republic" to Austria, which you produce with your economic policy abroad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Forenote number three: The Federal Minister and Chancellor in Spek Klima has today tried to present his expertise: His figures are reliable, his forecasts are as accurate as those of the Wifo. Mr. Federal Minister, because I'm at the Wifo right now: You should stop quoting the Wifo. For I say to you in alternation of a saying: The Wifo is willing, but the forecasts there are weak, ladies and gentlemen! Stop quoting the Wifo. You quoted Wifo data today, Minister! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I didn't even quote the Wifo!]] Trust You're not on Your own economic and jubilant institution, the Wifo? Today you have always quoted the forecasts and the economic data of the Wifo – or am I wrong? Have you invented the data? Then I'll immediately take care of the Wifo from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, you have also referred to economic data coming from your government-willing Wifo. I hope you have trusted your own economic data as well as the Austrian public and Austrian taxpayers in your forecasts at ÖMV. As a freshly baked minister, you said: The ÖMV will write a black zero for the first time. – But then she wrote a very massive red number, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 3 billion!]] Their forecast was as wrong at the time as your predictions and forecasts were in the transit contract, so that today every Tyrolean can recognize himself in front of his doorway on the street by telling what of your predictions to keep from your figures, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, you should be a little more modest in this question and also in your appearance, even though you – and for this I already understand – need to profile now as future chancellor. They should also stop calming the Austrian public with "workgroups" from ÖVP and SPÖ on the question of privilege. You won't be able to calm us down! The Federal Chancellor makes a commission, you make a working group. The "Commissionitis" rages in the Federal Government like ever, as at Kreisky's troubled times, when the "Commissionitis" became a disease. – Ladies and gentlemen! You can't dispute the privilege policy. As far as the privilege policy is concerned, it was the only and only FPÖ, it was the only and only we liberals who have repeatedly forced you to act. And you, Federal Minister of Climate, will still experience this as a German Chancellor if you do not do more than use a working group, invent a commission to challenge the privilege-gift debate in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whenever you were required to say what you are going to do in the protected area, for example at the National Bank, at the social security institutions, at the energy supply companies, you have just answered, you assume that something is happening there, you have written a letter to them. – Well, they will have shown themselves really “shocked” that they will receive a letter from you that they will finally have to refine their privileges! – Instead, they will remember that you yourself have some, Mr. Federal Minister, and will allow this letter to wander into the trash basket or return to you as "wrongly delivered". Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it's played there. Without us, the liberals are not going forward in the privilege debate in truth. That is what the voters have recognized, and that is what we are looking for in the future. This will also be necessary, because although this government takes the taxpayer into the left pocket, into the right pocket, into the pockets to pull the money out of his pocket and to push out the last tax shillings from all possible reserves, but of course what your own privileges are, is very careful. The Federal Minister has not lost a sentence on red and black privilege riders. Also talk about freedom, if you know which one. We'd like to talk about it. But talk about the red and black privilege castles, about the red and black privilege riders, whose there are piles. It would take a break from this session, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to put forward every single case that I have documented minutely – only for me privately. My speaking time would be hopelessly exhausted. I would have no way of dealing with your questioning, which, I say, was extremely funny. As it was, I will show you this on the basis of the example on question 23. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (for Abg. Koppler) I'm glad you're here too!]] Mr Koppler! In particular in the trade union field Clean up so much of your privileges! Offer the public the "deservances", the amounts that your trade union bonuses fill in. I only remind you of Minister Lacina, who himself said that in the SPÖ the Bonzentum has been torn down, that it has become a party in which Bonzentum and Privilegian economy ruled, ladies and gentlemen. Tun You're going to do something before you make unqualified calls here. Federal Minister! With question 23 you were treacherous in your answer to the question, and from that you can also see which "quality" your answer had. You have asked the House how you will solve the problem of unconstitutionality in the removal of loss claims, in the exercise of loss claims from the years 1996/97, in the early post-taxation of certain provisions and in the maintenance of clearances which have had indebtedness to say: A two-thirds majority will ensure that what is now unconstitutional will then be constitutionalized by a constitutional provision. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There's the ÖVP!]] That is what the Constitutional Court has criticized for years. In this context, I would remind you of the transactions relating to the taxi concession law. The Constitutional Court said: It's immense what's going on with the Constitution. – The Federal Minister stands out here and says: We know that this is unconstitutional. – Although he did not expressly say this, he knows that this is the case; he also knows that this is the result of the request. But he says he assumes – he always "is" "of that" – that with a two-thirds majority one can actually ignore the question of constitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the way to make politics in Austria in the future! You won't understand that you are shameless in the citizen's mind, regardless of whether you are correcting things with your constitutional majority or not! – break all the commitments made by the EU before the 1994 National Council elections, from before the 1995 National Council elections. Today, Minister of State Ditz says: We have no reason to keep our election promise. You break these promises of election shamelessly – and you also want to gain an understanding of the citizens without changing something in yourself, in the protected area and in your privileges. Nor does the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who distributes generous gifts abroad for debug actions by developing countries, as he now intends to do again at the next social summit in Copenhagen. It makes billions of gifts to developing countries. Mr President, Mr Kenneth Kaunda rightly pointed this out and asked: When will that actually happen? When can I expect that we will no longer have to repay these amounts? I also recall the billions of gifts to a speculator like Mr Elias and so on. All these things – up to the privileges rites in the National Bank, up to privilege cases also among politicians, the number is great – the citizen reads day after day in the daily newspapers, and then he has to experience how to tie a load package that in fact represents a massive grip in the pockets of the social weak of this country, ladies and gentlemen! The first handle of this tax invention government goes towards 13 and 14. Monthly salary. The next handle is towards the introduction of a solidarity levy on the back door, which the Austrian People's Party has already said, is never in question for them. But at the ÖVP we know how fast it falls, that's their only real world champion discipline. In the case of the solidarity over the back door, those who build a house that have formed their own assets, who have achieved independence and security through their own provision, are now to be punished. The energy tax will put the families in a very massive way. That's where you can talk, Minister. They want to: The result neutrality is not made up of how we liberals have always demanded it. The families are asked to check out. There will be a drastic deterioration in the situation of women, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs no longer trusts in the House. She's sitting out in the couloirs somewhere, knowing that this government has decided on a tax package that's ad absurd to all of her women's policies. Finally, there are dramatic interventions in the field of care insurance by using the caregivers of this country to pay for the entire malaise for the government! Instead of saving ourselves – we are currently experiencing the struggle for the Federal Ministers and Ministries, the ÖVP wants to do nothing, the socialists don't want to do anything – it starts to forget the citizens to save. The citizen has to pay the bill that this government has opened to him! And we don't play for the liberals under any circumstances. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to express a little praise for this federal government – it is rare enough. This federal government has finally recognized two things in its package, at least in its tax package, for which we have been beaten for years. It is to be read that, in future, non-Austrian citizens will benefit from the family allowance for children living abroad. I didn't trust my eyes, ladies and gentlemen! For years, Dr. Haider has been beaten for making this claim. This has always been dealt with under the pretext "Ausländerfeindlichkeit". But now, suddenly, the Federal Government is insisting that this is a massive abuse and that it must be stopped. And it says immediately that even in the future, certain benefits of the State, such as the compensation allowance, can no longer be used if you do not have a proper residence in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! We have known for years – and the Social Minister has already admitted it – that massive abuse is being done at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer. For the first time under the pressure of the empty cash registers, the government goes here and binds all that it has previously released against us liberals, who we have always demanded, in a package. – Lately she comes, but she comes. At least in these two tiny points, Minister, you cannot fail to have minor recognition. Otherwise, your load package is what it is, that is, unsocial. That's where you can do whatever you want. It is unsocial, even if They continue to try to act as if everything were balanced as if everyone would get something anyway, as if any benefit. You have had the impression in your answer to the question, it is not at all a package, where money for the state comes in, because everyone gets something again. With this fairy tale, Mr. Federal Minister, you will not be able to get through with the Austrian public and especially with us liberals. Therefore, you will not avoid the reduction of privileges. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It will be the task of the next few months to provide compensation for the privileges and protected areas of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4434	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Novotny. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4456	Mr President. High house! It is already a good habit for the F to demand special meetings, and the speeches of Mr Haider and Mr Stadler have also moved in the usual context. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You will also give your speech!]] But I have to correct my statement a little, because something new has already been given: To date, FPÖ has always claimed that in 1998, Haider will become Federal Chancellor. Today, MP Stadler has said in conversation with Minister Klima that he expects a social-democratic German chancellor in the future. He even stressed it because he was looking to the future. So that's an interesting aspect. Perhaps you will have some difficulties with Mr Haider, but that is not our problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is the transitional chancellor!]] So you had something new to offer, that was really something future-oriented. We would like to make that quite clear to you. As far as political income is concerned, it is obvious that politicians have to make their contribution to this consolidation area. This has already happened in a number of cases. There are also a number of further proposals, and my colleagues will address them. In the area of serious matters, we will be discussing the matter, and I must say that this is unfortunately not very many. Since Mr Haider has assembled the Augarten-Porzellan here for the reception of foreign state guests, I already have the question, Mr Haider, whether you as the head of state in Carinthia – it was not very long – have welcomed your guests with plastic dishes or whether you would view the Augarten-Porzellan as adequate for the Republic of Austria. So that's not very serious to take. The other thing you've done is to increase staffing in the Federal Chancellery. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This is half-truth, and half-truth is not truth. Concrete: It is true that the level of employment has increased. But he has risen because there has been a shift in competence. The sports section came to the Federal Chancellery together with the Bundessportheimen. That is, the total number of employees has not increased; only one section has come from one ministry to another. We need to keep up with this. Either you know it or you don't know it, either you want to tell the truth or you don't want it. But what? They said it was a half-truth and is therefore wrong. – And unfortunately this is the case in many cases. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In no case can I and do not want to go along with the trend that has come out of here today, and it will become much clearer if you read through what you say at other places where politicians as profiters, as parasites, as "bonds" – the word has fallen again today – are disqualified. I would like to remind you already that, with this procedure, a party discredited democracy in the period prior to the Second World War. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Yeah, you don't like to hear that. But it is also interesting that you feel immediately affected. Obviously you already see a very narrow connex. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, just keep talking!]] I can only tell you that in this case: Be the beginnings! And if you feel affected, it's all the better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is particularly cynical to make proposals here by someone who then suddenly explains that he is rich enough to pursue politics with his private property. But this does not exclude him saying for the tax that he has no income. At the same time, it is someone who – with a very short exception – has never worked outside politics. Here too, I would like to say very clearly: The Haider model, which is a purely professional politician plus wealth, is not the way we want to go in politics. This is not what we imagine in politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you have said here to the Oesterreichische National Bank I must say: Obviously, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank is some unfortunate love of Dr. Haider – a really very unhappy one. First of all, you had this reinfaller with the minimum reserves by demanding: Let's waste the minimum reserves! They then taught you that this is not a good idea. The next reinfaller was with the gold reserves. That wasn't a good idea either. Now you obviously wanted to try it with the pension reserves. I have to say again: They're only half-informed, and half-truths aren't truths. We have to say very clearly here: Of course, there is where there is a real need for reform in the National Bank, the need to change things, and that is on the way. You jumped up here on a moving train. In your own request you have already shown that there are reforms. That is, we are ready to take appropriate steps. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where's the pack?]] But where it is simply tried to scandalize things, there we will certainly not go along and reject it very seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Colleague! What about the pensions now?]] But now – and this is a point that is important to me – should not go down in the discussion is the following: You have announced this debate under a completely different title. This is a debate on the consolidation package itself, and this is the point that we should be discussing in the House today, with just as much time for it tomorrow. To this end, I must say quite honestly and clearly: There is no painless budget consolidation. However, we have endeavoured to consolidate, which is socially balanced, which is actually sustainable, so that we can secure the financial situation of the Republic for a long time and, as a result, the economic location of Austria and thus employment in Austria. It is clear that social areas are also affected, that cannot be denied; it would also be quite unrealistic to deny that. But I would also like to stress: We did not focus on the ideas of Dr. Haider. ==References== March 1995 in Linz published the slogan: We need a redundancie in the thickness of the social state – the redundancies for the social state obviously according to the kind of lord. And I would like to say very clearly: We are not concerned with the redundancies of the social state, but we are concerned with securing and renewing, the link between economic compensation, social balance and economic recovery. That's what we're talking about. And in that sense, we will be very different from what the FPÖ wants. I would also like to stress that there are also consensual judgments by a large number of serious observers that we have succeeded in the proposals we have put forward here. For example, I would like to mention the economic research institutes, but I would also like to quote from a newspaper that otherwise always comes from the FPÖ. The economic editor of the "Kronen-Zeitung", Dr. Wailand, meant – I quote here –: In the economy, there are never a hundred percent perfect solutions. The overall direction must vote. This is the case with the savings package. And this move must be set in motion. That's exactly what it's all about. Of course, there are individual points in each large package that we can still discuss, and that will also be our task in the committees. The direction is right, the train must be set in motion. And that's the task we're going to put here as parties to the government – and also in the future. And you won't take us away from this responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You still haven't said what's wrong with the National Bank's pensions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One point I would like to address, in conclusion, because it has recently been brought up frequently in the debate, concerns the question: Does this consolidation package mean a burden on the young in favour of the old? Is there something like a political generation conflict? I think this is an issue that is really serious. Indeed, it is true that in a modern society there are a number of tendencies, according to which those who are in a system, in a social system, are preferred to those who are not inside. This means that insiders have a stronger position than outsiders. So it is in the labour market, there is in the housing sector, and there are actually trends that we must pay very close attention to. I therefore believe that these problems must be addressed precisely. However, I do not think that it is a goal to stylize the old man to a fight against a boy – not at all in connection with the consolidation package. First of all, it must be noted that the effort to limit future indebtedness and to secure the social system in the long term is a measure that we are taking in the interests of future generations, namely to provide a powerful economy for these young people, so that they have a chance to claim themselves on the world market and in international competition. It is not true that the economy is almost a zero-sum game, that is, what one wins, the other necessarily has to lose, but it is about winning additional new opportunities. Minister Climate has already argued that last week there was a broad consensus between government and social partners on a package of measures in the field of infrastructure development, in the area of enhanced technology policy, in the field of training, in the field of export promotion. All of this is about developing the Austrian economy productively and implementing a consolidation programme alongside an expansion programme. I believe that this is a future perspective which will benefit all Austrians in this form. Therefore, it is important not to lose sight of individual aspects that can always be discussed. In the end, this is also the big difference between the position that Members Haider and Stadler have presented to us today and our position. To this difference, to this willingness to bear responsibility, and to bear overall responsibility, we are also standing. And in the sense of this difference, we will ensure that Austria - I hope, as soon as possible - gets a budget that ensures that this state works and that it continues to be a social state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4602	Mr Gottfried Feurstein came to speak. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4626	Ladies and gentlemen! It is indisputable that privileges discussions always interest the public. And if one is in an emergency to have to appear in the public, then of course one tries to update this topic. And so it's Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler today: Since they have had little to contribute in recent times, they have tried to deal with this issue again in a special session. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are already seeing, as a result of the past progress in the debate, that this is a discussion which is hardly anyone interested in this form, as it is led, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is basically about the rehabilitation concept and the consolidation programme of our Federal Government. And this consolidation programme has been approved by the public, which could hardly have been imagined a few months ago. There has been a change of consciousness, which is important to us and which also documents that we are on the right path, ladies and gentlemen. And we will continue this path of consolidation of the federal budget and rehabilitation – completely indifferent, in what way is now being tried from the right side to bring things to a different level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You came too late because the things you, Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler, claim, is already being treated under this consolidation programme. And the working group, which is set up, is dealing with these issues and has already dealt with them, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask that, if you are already asking such questions as has been made today, at least the facts are correct. It has obviously been forgotten that in 1995 we passed a law which, of course, means that the same rules and regulations apply to new entrants, as they apply to all other employees in employment law. Here is already the step that is being taken, ladies and gentlemen, by the liberals. Obviously, you have not read the laws that you have agreed to, otherwise it could simply not happen that you are mis-quoting. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You forgot the law!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I got it there!]] - I've got the law. I'd like to give it to you afterwards, Mr. Dr. Stadler, and show you the law which states that exactly the same labour law rules exist for the new Members, just as they have been given to workers in labour law for years. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do not dye! 90 percent who sit there, the rule does not apply!]] – We ask for an honest discussion in this regard. Let me remind you of something, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals: Most of the things shown by you in the referee law have been decided by the voices of the liberals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Yes, I do! Unfortunately, Mr Stadler, I must tell you that you have the most laws... [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You don't, but your predecessors in the FPÖ have agreed most of the laws. You have to take note of this, and that is what you have to listen to. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to disagree on a crucial point: It's just wrong if this is Mag. Stadler was claimed that the people who have little income would primarily be affected by this consolidation programme. It is also wrong if it is claimed that the needy people would take something. That's just wrong. It is true, however, that the Freedom Party has repeatedly been demanded that the caregivers provide proof of the use of their funds. Ladies and gentlemen! If one were to demand this proof and put it into law, then I must say that would mean a real reduction in the amount of care, and against that we are! We shall certainly not give this our consent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, it is clear that politicians must also make their contribution to this reorganisation, have done it and will still do so. I should like to remind you that since 1994, there have already been three rounds of no-one for the politicians and that political salaries will continue to stand at the level of 1993. So the political salaries will continue to remain at the level of 1993, ladies and gentlemen, in 1997. For us too, it is clear and important that we need a solution to incomes that come about without benefits. We do not want income to be achieved if no service has been provided. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Since when?]] This has been true in the country of Vorarlberg since 1975. Since 1975, this rule has been applied, and there are no national officials who have gone into politics, who would have ever been paid a salary as a national official – without the equivalent, ladies and gentlemen! We firmly reject what the liberals demand, namely a limitation of income with the famous 60 000 s, which are not subject to public control, Mr Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is at least one step!]] We strongly reject that! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're cashing four, five times!]] I should now like to remind you of something in case you make such a request again, and you have put this demand back today, namely the checks you are carrying out in your party. I would remind you of the fallen cards you made when it came to the election of the President of the Court of Auditors. That's your control! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But your National Council President said it was all right!]] We will not accept that! We will not accept this form, Dr. Haider! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are in favour of a correct, honest solution to this problem, and we will also bring this regulation into line with this consolidation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say quite clearly: We are in favour of the person receiving a pension who makes contributions. When contributions are made, pension entitlements should also be acquired. That's what we're doing. We do not want to discuss what contributions have been made and what pensions are to be received, but when contributions are made, pension rights have also been acquired, and these pensions are to be paid! However, an exception – in which we also differ in principle from what has been discussed today – is the supply of survivors. We are in favour of widows and orphans, if they have received maintenance benefits from the deceased, maintaining these benefits. Dr. Haider! We are firmly opposed to the widows and orphans being taken in the context of the reform of pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are also in favour of once again looking at the rules and regulations on pensions in the areas reviewed by the Court of Auditors: in the e-commerce, in the state-owned industry and in the state-owned banks. I remember – since the National Bank has been mentioned so many times today – what Dr. Schüssel told you, Dr. Haider, on 15 May. Last November, and I would like to ask you: Did you do what you took over at the time? At the time, Dr. Schüssel, as you have highly criticized the National Bank and demonstrated things that are not in the form of our consent, answered: "I am immediately to do so, so this topic is from the table. You're right: The protected sectors are as open and exposed to the free wind of competition as everyone else." Then he told you: "All that you say here, you can say immediately and immediately to your liberal vice-president at the central bank. He is responsible for abolishing this." – I ask you: Has your vice-president in the central bank put in place the appropriate measures to change these things? – First of all, you need action, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that you have not acted in this respect with the decision with which you otherwise try to bring your arguments to the man again and again in the public. It has been interesting for me in today's debate that the social security companies, the social security officials, have not been mentioned or blamed in any way. Today, I believe, we have a system that is exemplary in the field of social security. There are clear rules for the remuneration, the payment of the officials, and there are very clear rules for the remaining social security officials. I would like to mention someone who has gained special merit in this regard – not you from the liberals, because you have not made any concrete proposals. It was at that time, in particular, Mr Donabauer, who put in place measures, so that we came to a regulation that is actually exemplary and could also be exemplary in other areas for which we are responsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No consent shall be given to the liberals, for example, if they require the further tax advantage of loss models. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know who was favoured by these loss models, and we do not want unjustified benefits. But once again, the clients behind it are the tax advisors who are already seeing their business again, and we will hear again that the tax advisors are trying to defend it. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mix apples with pears!]] This is your business. I understand. This is your business, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] I conclude by saying: For us, the principle, including the consequence of this consolidation programme, which is proposed to reorganise the state budget, is considered to be a principle... [[Abg. Rosenstingl: We will explain the difference to you!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You can still scream and noch, you can then speak, ladies and gentlemen, especially the gentlemen who work as tax advisors and see their good business swimming away! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I understand, I have also been addressed by tax advisors. This is your business, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: You have no idea of this either!]] I don't know that much, I'm not a tax advisor, I'm right, but I have the idea where your business is. I have this idea, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] Our principle – it is also a consequence of this consolidation programme, which is proposed to reorganise the state budget – is that comparable conditions should be created in all areas of remuneration and compensation, so that people who work in our economy feel fair. We must make a contribution to this, and we must make a contribution to that!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4885	Mr Dr. Haider referred to an actual correction. Please, honourable Member, start this correction with the claim you want to make.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4907	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feurstein claimed that the incriminated arrangements at the Oesterreichische National Bank should have been influenced and eliminated by the free Vice-President. I would point out that the term of office of this Vice-President against the explicit will of the liberals, also against the explicit will of me – documented in writing by a letter to the Federal Government – has been extended twice with the votes of the ÖVP. That's why this thing stays with you and not with us! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's a word report!]] Secondly, you have claimed that the settlement system is already obsolete. This is wrong, because § 47c states that for all the delegates who were before the XX. The legislative period, that is, before this period, has been in Parliament, the old system of privileges is still in force, and I really think that this is a chuzpe of the same kind, Mr Feurstein. You yourself have addressed it, you yourself have made sure that the privileges are preserved so that at the same time you can make a different arrangement for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4963	Mr Feurstein referred to a personal reply. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to show your personal concern.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e4985	Deputies! You have deliberately misquoted me. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I quoted the law!]] They have said that I said something wrong, that has affected me. I said clearly – twice! . that the new Members are affected by the new regulation which we decided in 1995. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You yourself have judged it! All who sit there have judged it!]] And that's right and right, and I really ask you not to quote me wrong in the future and try to give the impression that I would have commented on false facts here. I'm asking you not to do that anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5034	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5103	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So I'm not aware that I would have judged it – but that was put there. I believe that entry into today's debate is not possible without a brief return to a principle, and that is the question of the misuse of parliamentary bodies and, in particular, of opposition rights. There is a press release by Dr. Haider, in which he complains in the light of the debate on the Rules of Procedure, that it would be a fear of an attack on parliamentary democracy, because the convocation of special meetings would be difficult. I think this is a confusion of cause and effect. Whoever arbitrarily convenes special meetings, who knowingly abuses urgent requests, because the urgency is not given, and who reduces other rights of opposition in this way, abuses, and that is an attack on parliamentary rights. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, as well as on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As a member of an opposition party, I regret this attack because I believe that it will not benefit us all as parliamentarians, but in particular as opposition politicians. I would also like to mention something from the same press release, because here says: "The liberals will not support the laziness of parliamentarians. Only cashing and working nothing is no alternative for the liberals." – I think Jörg can rightly call myself a diligent person. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, in your industry!]] However, I am not dependent on you to confirm or reject me. I just want to tell you one thing: You will not believe that the inside and mutual reproach – which is usually very one-sided – has something to do with work. If that means working here, I have to say, you have to go where you really work. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] That, Jörg, is what's so difficult with you, because you're always shooting your own knees with these actions. Your arguments don't come over anymore, and that's your problem. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But please, ladies and gentlemen, if we have already been called up here today and have to deal with serious issues, I do not want to close this either. It is called rehabilitation programme or consolidation programme, Mr Federal Minister, of the others it is called load package or load programme, and I would ask you to note the semantic distinction very well. We say it's an emergency program. That means that we recognize that you are setting up rehabilitation efforts, we acknowledge that you are trying, but we believe that what you are doing is really not understood by the super term "consolidation" or "rehabilitation". Consolidating or rehabilitating would create conditions for a permanent safeguarding and recovery of the budget. But here, Minister of State, we see no or insufficient approaches. However, I do not want to go into it in detail today, because I believe that if you comment on half-laid eggs – and this consolidation program is still a semi-laid egg – there is also a lot of coffeesud reading on it, and I do not think so. But individual points in this rehabilitation programme are very clearly defined and absolutely do not find our approval. Today, in your speech, you yourself have responded to it by talking about the constitutional trap, about social transfers. Here I should like to draw your attention once again: This constitutional contradiction does not exist in the liberal transfer model, and I ask you once again – as I have already asked honourable Members Novotny and stupidly – to look at and discuss this model. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't appreciate them?]] Yes, Mr. Khol, I appreciated her, but I do not want to miss out on whether I appreciate you too. I'll tell you another time, but I definitely appreciate the two gentlemen. I therefore believe that it would be worth it if we had made this an argument, not only to you, but also to your predecessor and also to Dr. Ditz, in his capacity as Secretary of State, many times, if we could resolve this objection in discussion. What has bothered me in particular is that you talk a few sentences later about another constitutional question, which I also share: This is the arbitrary removal of the loss lectures in 1989 and 1990, which in any case is a disaster from the point of view and from the effect on the rule of law. If this happened to me in Poland, where I work, I'd say: Yes, no wonder they have no rule of law, they delete arbitrarily. [[For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Dr. Schmidt.]] Please, Mrs. Chef. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is the boss?]] - That's the boss. Is that new to you? So if that happened there, you'd say, Please, no rule of law – no wonder! I feel that an Austrian government is trying to sell it under the title "rehabilitation measure". If you say, Mr Federal Minister, but then in the second half, you take this constitutional question very seriously, but you will try to do so through – and now I quote you – "trying to secure a corresponding majority", then I must say, is white cynicism. You as the Federal Government – knowing that, unfortunately, for us opposition politicians, you have reached a constitutional majority again – clearly represent the possibility and say: If it is not possible or if there are constitutional considerations that we need to take seriously, then we will try to achieve a majority – is a constitutional majority – here in the house and thus continue to have an improper habit, whenever the Constitutional Court has repealed legal measures or decided to repeal these relevant laws without prejudice to the constitutional status. I hope that, Mr Klubobmann Khol, will not be able to do so. Your intention for all futures. You should not even get used to this constitutional majority, because you will lose it again, the next time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, had to hear today that this restructuring or consolidation package is socially balanced: It becomes clear when browsing through that, apart from the transfer question and the question of family transfers, there is no social balance in our eyes even at various other points. But apart from that, there are still some things I do not want to mention today. I am now just taking a few things out, Mr Federal Minister, and I would ask you at least to appreciate the argument. I believe that the introduction of a bonus malus system for the recruitment and termination of older workers – I know that is not what you want, but your colleague Hums – is an improper underprotection. I have already called this very cynically the inclusion in the UN Art Protection Agreement of older citizens. I think you will achieve the exact opposite effect here. I believe that in this way you will not move market economy and free entrepreneurship to give older workers an additional opportunity or to allow them to stay longer in the acquisition. On the contrary! I can remind you that there is an invalid regulation, and we have to abolish it, because it has failed. There is a ban on night work for women, and this should be abolished, for this law is not a protection but a discrimination law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you do the same in the spirit today – I approve of you in good will; I was actually part of this group – so, I must say, you do nothing good to the affected. The over 50s can also defend themselves and can perform their services and will not be worthy of this kind of protection, especially if they lose their jobs with close proximity to the age limit or this trend is promoted. However, other measures should also be mentioned here, in particular the prevention of the circumvention of working conditions by works contracts by subjecting them to social insurance obligations and now also a source tax. – However, I would rather have. The social security obligation is much more disturbing to me, but it is only a measure which is taking place because you are unable to have effective control and to prevent abuse or, secondly, because you are at the end of your social security systems and are also dependent on involving these works contracts, which are carried out in a free way. I think it's counterproductive for the founding wave, it's counterproductive for job creation or job initiatives, for all that you're planning and what you're telling us. However, there are already many work programmes, and this new one has been countercared by you yourself. I don't think that's a good way. There are also many other or smaller things where your sales strategy is not right, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the question of the second year's karence scheme is one that you should have admitted openly and honestly as a purely saving measure. You should not hide from this that you wanted to achieve a desired social policy effect in order to improve women's chances. You should know, Mr Feurstein, that you have done exactly the opposite here. I must accuse you of wanting to sell something here with a label gap and to provide a content that does not correspond to the actual content. Do you have the courage to say that the second year was too expensive, or just say we can't afford it anymore, it will be half a year. But to say that this is a measure with a particular social policy objective, while in reality it is nothing but a saving measure, you should save yourself. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Before I close, I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. Unfortunately, Professor Novotny is not here, but I am trying to tell him that for me too, the professional politician with wealth is not something I pursue. But even worse than those are professional politicians with wealth and privileges. And in that respect, I must say, you cannot take advantage of the policy debate by saying that there are professional politicians with wealth. I hope it will not be forbidden either to be a professional politician or to have wealth. Soak up the horse at the tail and say: I don't want that!, that's not a special thing in my eyes... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So he closed knife sharp that can't be what can't be!]] I'm sharp at all, always even. That you first defend the OeNB privileges, then announced amendments, Mr. Feurstein, Mr. Novotny: You should finally get rid of them. You shouldn't defend that first, then the defender won't use it anymore, now you announce, that's not enough. They should get rid of them. They should not claim that this law, which is in preparation, could still be corrected in the committees. Mr. Feurstein, you've been sitting there a lot longer than I am. I do not know if you know a case where such a law was still corrected in a committee. You have to answer this package as a government group, and we will also remind you of it more often. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we have an old-boy conflict, which has become really public for the first time this year and has aroused attention. But perhaps we also have it because a political group has been very conscious of this issue of election, because a political group has been shocked by uncertainty and fear – and unfortunately this process has also been rewarded with a election victory. This requires you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, but really not to be proud. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I come to the conclusion, and I would like to read a motion for a resolution... [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] It is just a sentence, Mr President. [[Quoted print version removed]] I thank you many times and wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5274	Deputies! In spite of your nice wish for a nice evening, it would be good if you agreed in future on the timing of your speech in such a way that the text of the resolution can still be brought over the stage during the planned 15 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I promise improvement!]] I am just hearing that this motion for a resolution was not passed on to the Bureau. Can you at least submit on this "beautiful evening" then it would be even more beautiful. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next speaker is Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5310	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mr President. I have to say that I am not sorry that there is this special meeting on this subject today. The only thing I am sorry about is that, at the opening of this debate, Mr Haider did not manage to deal with the subject in some way with the fact that he did not succeed in making serious the relationship between the tax package and the privileges of certain groups. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can do that!]] – Yes, Mr Haider, I will. I'll get to the subject, too. It has been interesting to me that it was Mr Klima, who here claimed that the percentage of the burden in this tax package corresponds to about the share of the respective population in the value added. Minister! It must have been a mistake. It cannot be the share of value added as the basis for the burden on the respective group, because what about the pensioners? - They're being taxed. What about the students? - They're being taxed. What about the unemployed? - They're being taxed. What about the kids? - They're being taxed. However, these do not represent a share of value added. Minister! It may only be meant – and I would take this seriously – that it has been tried, in line with the share of income, in the distribution of income. And if you take this seriously, Minister of Climate, then you have to find out – as a Social Democratic, you will agree with me – that: We have the situation, which has also been identified by the Chamber of Labour and which has also been debated in the public, that precisely those incomes over 70 000 S gross are, as a matter of fact, least taxed. You can only come in fictitiously, while adding the loss depreciation to the percentage burden which you are entitled to assume, here each population group would be taxed quite equally. That is not true, Mr. Minister – he is not here, but perhaps he hears it anyway – it is not subject to percentage taxes according to the income situation in question. I am sure you will agree with me, especially you from the Socialist Group – which you are not very present at the moment – that the existing distribution of income may not be the basis for the burden on the consolidation or tax package. [[after a look at the almost empty SPÖ rows]] The existing income distribution is probably also unfair in your terminology and in your opinion. That is, if you take them to the standard for new loads, then continue these injustices in the load package. And that's the situation we're experiencing with this consolidation package. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Existing inequalities are not only continued, they are even reinforced by the consolidation package. This is still the situation, the particular population groups, which are particularly burdened and also particularly annoyed by individual groups. You will probably have received in all the fractions the letter of that Lord from Großkirchheim, who writes: "I see the need for saving and also the contribution of officials and pensioners, but not that the money earners are most asked to cash out because, as is always claimed, this can never be socially balanced. Or is it re-establishing the big earners, parliamentarians, senior officials and trade unionists because they are making the decision?" This is an argument that must be taken seriously. That is what people think, and it would be appropriate to raise exactly this question here and today in connection with the package of stress and privileges and to discuss publicly what groups it catches. What groups are being charged with the consolidation package, and which groups would have to make a stronger contribution to this consolidation package? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, of the coalition parties! I tell you, you are committing this burden package to the future, you are committing to youth, you are committing to education and you are committing to women. They are committing themselves to those who have already been partially concerned about their future: These are the single-parents, these are usually those women who have been abandoned by their husbands, those are the unemployed and emergency workers who currently have little perspective in this society in view of rising unemployment rates, in view of a development which is not least entitled to believe that they can ever get a job again in that country. In view of an increasing base of long-term unemployed people, the situation is almost hopeless for this group of people as far as the chance of a job is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a group that already has its future: the pensioners. They too are burdened to an uneven extent. It is incomprehensible that the small pensioners who have over 10 000 S pension do not receive an increase, but those groups of pensioners – I mean now the civil servants – whether they receive 20 000 S, 50 000 S or 70 000 S pension, receive an annual supplement in the next two years, a one-time increase of 2 000 S or 3 000 S, depending on the year. Ladies and gentlemen! That's unfair. It is not understandable that if the ASVG-pensionists receive more than 10 000 S, they do not receive a one-time increase or a percentage increase, but the non-contained group of civil servants receives a one-time supplement of 2 000 S or 3 000 S, whether at 90 000 S or at 20 000 S or at 15 000 S, as is the case with officials. I mean, there's a difference to be made here. It should be recognized that there is an uneven distribution here, including the burden on the various groups. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that before the elections – and the election promises have already been quoted several times, especially on the basis of Mr Ditz's sage – the Federal Chancellor has promised: "I will do everything so that women will not be left alone with their needs and problems. For many women, there must be better maintenance schemes, better childcare facilities, better protection against violence in the family, better opportunities in the profession and better opportunities for their own pensions." Ladies and gentlemen! Faith Do you really think that with what you have set out in the consolidation package, you could only fulfill one of these promises in some way? You, too, Mr Feurstein, are coming along with your promise. I remember when you said in 1993/94, one of the groups you believe should improve their situation, are the single parents with children. That is what you have said, and today we have a load package that is particularly strained not only on women in general, but also on women, especially those of the single-parents who suffer the least from this burden. I will present to you what is planned in relation to the single-parents. It has already been said that it would have been more honest to put the cards on the table with regard to the karenz leave scheme. We also believe that the old regulations – the second year of karenz – were not optimal for women, that they were rather an exit model rather than an entry-level model. In fact, the intention of the second year of leave was to enable women to re-enter their working life. We know the numbers; we know that there is no return after two years of Karenz. And we think that there should have been a lot to do. One could have developed intelligent ideas that one could have actually carried out structural reform on this issue. – One has not done so, one has not chosen the approach to look at and improve the actual situation of women, but one has chosen the only approach that is obviously possible in your thinking: the cut with the shear. It is shortened where the burden on those affected is most unbearable, and especially on those who are least able to endure it: on women who have children to care for. If, for example, you had tried to increase part-time leave as a means of re-entry, to establish a legal claim for women to return to work, you would have received our support. This would have been a way of getting out of the dilemma that arose with the introduction of the second year of karenz. But you should have thought a little more generous, because you should have thought in the future, and that was obviously not your intention. Because what did you do? – You have not only shortened the 24 months leave to usually 18 months, but also limited the part-time leave, from previously up to four years to usually two years. This is not a solution, the future has, Mr Feurstein. This cannot be what you have imagined when you said that single parents and children must be helped. You can't say that at your best! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are facing the situation today that single mothers must not only be taught by Members of Khol in a cynical way via 'Salzburger Nachrichten', for example: What the kindergarten needs at all, there is also the grandma! – that is pure cynicism, to the detriment of the women, too – but it is also true that what you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have promised in the last legislative period before the elections, that there should be a kindergarten billion, is not finally realized. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] We have always tried to focus on this. We were promised again and again: Of course, there will be these kindergarten billions. – Now the cat is out of the bag: There are no kindergarten billions. There is no extension of childcare facilities. No new opportunities will be created for single women to accommodate their children – on the contrary. What else is available in the consolidation package? – In the unemployment insurance law, something is hidden, which has hardly been recognized in its dimension for exactly this group, namely a new criterion, which means: availability. Work will be replaced by availability. This means nothing but that, for example, single women who have children to care for and, of course, cannot do every job because they may be infringing their child care obligations imposed on them by law, are not available for the labour market under this definition of the legislator and can therefore be separated from unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You get it wrong!]] In other words, they lose the right to unemployment benefit. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If this is your perspective for single women, how they are to get through, that you not only take care of them, but also take the second year of care, and also the unemployment allowance, that you deny them the chances of reintegration by not expanding part-time leave, not forcing them if this is your perspective for this group of women, then it looks bad – not only for you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but above all for those groups that are unable to defend themselves: These are, for example, the single women. I have taken this group out particularly because, with your ideology, with your programmatics in recent years, you have repeatedly pointed out that you will do everything possible for them, both ÖVP and SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They abandon this group. Of the promises there is nothing left but mockery and ridicule – and the damage also. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On one point, which Mr Klima has also referred to: He said that, although the birth grant will no longer be available, there is the possibility for those in particular in need to get the supplement. – Mr Klima! You know as well as I do that the label is dizzy! That's nothing but cheap label flaw. This supplement, this possibility you have mentioned, is already available. It is now called the birth grant supplement and will in future be called toddlers' allowance or something similar. That's nothing but pick another label on it. The birth aid in its entirety is, of course, deleted. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Do not pretend to have created a real perspective or improvement for the actually socially needy people in that country. You have broken your promises, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! You've gotten out of control...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5399	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5414	It's a tragedy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5445	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Chief. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5466	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has been doubted several times: as a causeless break from the fence by the liberals, as an exaggerated interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as almost counterproductive, as an abuse of this Parliament. I should like to say clearly and clearly that this instrument is granted by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to the opposition parties from a certain point of view. Over the last few years and decades, there has been a different view of urgency, of the need and of the corresponding parliamentary circumstances, of taking advantage of this possibility offered by the Rules of Procedure. It must also be stated explicitly that all these special meetings have been convened within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, within the framework of constitutional possibilities. It must also be stated clearly and clearly here that it is a right of opposition – whenever and for any democratic opposition – to feel things as urgent. It is of course in the political dialogue that the government and the opposition consider other things at other times than urgent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to point out that, in many debates and many committees which this Parliament considered necessary in order to clarify the inconsistencies of the administration in Austria, whether it was the NORICUM Committee, the AKH Committee, the dairy fund committee, the Committee on Inconsistencies in the construction of the Pyhrn motorway or others, the government parties always felt that it was neither urgent nor urgent that there was nothing to investigate that everything would be too planned. I would therefore like to warn the other two opposition parties, if they take themselves seriously as such, already today to limit these possibilities of opposition together with the government parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I already see that it may be tempting to present itself and to offer itself here as packed and governmental. But one thing should also be said clearly and clearly: With an opposition policy and with the responsible role of an opposition party in a democratic parliament, the behaviour of the two other opposition parties, even though Mr Hazelsteiner has expressed his criticism of us loudly, has nothing to do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that it is indiscriminate for any political group to consider something as urgent, as not urgent or less urgent. I also think it is quite right to make it clear what you feel is either urgent or not urgent. But I mean, even if you have dates – as a consul, as a freelancer, as a farmer, as a member of a local authority – or if you have to move a planned holiday once, for a fee of almost 80 000 S to 90 000 S grossto you have to buy these Inponderabilias and drive to Vienna in the Parliament, although you would prefer to spend your second or third residence holiday or other things. For one thing has to be said clearly, Dr. Haselsteiner, even if you do not consider the debates here as work: The non-in-Parliament, the non-participation in debates, the non-participation of committees, the apologies, for whatever reason, is not a parliamentary activity to be reconciled with performance fees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am therefore quite happy that in your speech for the Liberal Forum, you have at least noted – in your request, which you have made too late, but ultimately, however – that you can imagine a performance-oriented reward. I can still recall the attitude of some of your group colleagues when you were not yet in Parliament, on the occasion of the first proposal by the Liberal Group to a performance-oriented salary system for politicians, who have deem it almost impossible to qualify them. The Freedom Party has thus at least achieved that the Liberal Forum has seen that there can also be a performance-oriented salary for politicians and not only for other professional groups – whether workers, employees, officials, freelances or other beneficiaries in that State. Another aspect of the general debate that is taking place here today: Parliament should be the reflection of society. This very intention of our Constitutional Officers has not been reflected here in Parliament for at least the last 30 years. Population groups are excluded. The elderly are no longer represented by old age schemes for years. The youth is not or dissatisfying here. The proportion of women in this Parliament is rather low in relation to the distribution in the total population of Austria. And if you look at the professional groups: The industrial workers, the workers from the free economy, who have been allowed to take a place here in the last ten years, can count on the fingers of two hands. So clear and clear is the overweight of those who come from the official and protected area. I myself am a former parish servant, was a freelancer, has been a chief professional politician for about two years. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: President!]] Yes, at the time I was president, I also had the privileges of a service car and all these regulations. I would like to say a very clear and clear word to you, Mrs Mertel: This Federal Government and this Parliament will be measured by the Austrian population, whether the saving from above is only prior to the 17th century. ==References====External links== In December, only more commissions will be used, or whether they are actually willing to implement something. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I give colleagues Haselsteiner quite right: It would be high time for the Austrian National Bank to finally take up reforms and not introduce new Commissions. I am even more unhappy about those politicians in their own ranks, in the Freedom Party, who use this Privileged Jungle in the context of Austrian laws than I am about those who belong to other parties. For one thing must be clear to all of us: It is not distinguished by the population between those Members who live in a modest and personal way, and those black sheep who fully exploit the best regulations granted to us by the legislators in the privilege and social jungle of this Republic, within the framework of the laws. You, Mrs Mertel, are being measured in the same way as Mr Wabl, Mr Dr. Haider, Mr Haselsteiner or anyone else by the 183 Members. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Lukesch!]] And the consequences of the actions of every politician, who excessively exploits the laws we have passed, and in this hammock of the social state of Austria, the privileges that are possible, will fall to us all, the entire political system – no matter if it was once Mrs. Harrich of the Greens or today Mr. Ebner of the Freedoms – on the head. [[Call at the SPÖ:Haider – Bärental! Excessively exploited laws!]] I would also like to say to you, Minister of State, that: In your answer to the question, you have shown a great deal that, from your point of view, the common saving of the local authorities is also commendable. I can tell you – and perhaps it is possible for you to stop something like this in your role within the coalition government and within your negotiating team: Today, today, this afternoon, the Socialists and the People's Party in Carinthia have made a request for 50 percent increase in club funding. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 50 percent? Bumm!]] 50 percent! As the managing director of the liberals in Carinthia, I am telling you that we will not agree, and I would ask you, Minister of State, to ensure that the pact between the local authorities, the countries, the municipalities, the federal government and the Austrian taxpayers keeps to these ends. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And that at a time when you said it would be saved!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In a federal country with one of the highest indebtedness rates of all the federal states of Austria, I do not only think that it is politically inaccurate, but I think it is also dangerous for democracy, simply because I believe it will be difficult to apply crediblely to the Austrians in the background of such requests, to contribute their little pieces to bring the state ship back into positive water and to achieve a long-term rehabilitation and a discharge of our youth and the next generations. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's callous!]] Mr. Federal Minister Klima, you need action, your partyobmann Vranitzky needs action. Thus, the savings package cannot be transmitted or passed on to Austrian citizens with certainty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will make a motion for a resolution on the reduction of privileges, and I can read it briefly, in time, in order not to get into the same shortcomings as Mr Hazelsteiner. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many Austrians will already hang out the National Bank's necks and the discussion in this regard, but even more will depend on their necks that nothing has still happened there. Mr Feurstein has kindly quoted what Mr Schüssel has sent us on television. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Yes!]] You have quoted this correctly, but, Mr Feurstein, I say to you a stone and clear: You, your Bundesobmann Schüssel and all other representatives of the Austrian People's Party will not be able to steal from this assurance by Mr Schüssel in the television debate with colleagues Dr. Haider. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Dr. Haider, either!]] Mr Feurstein! As a Vorarlberg Member of Parliament, you know very well: The third president of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, former member of the Freedom Party, is retired from the Freeman. He is no longer a member of the Freedom Party, and he has been confirmed twice against the will of the Liberal Group here in this Parliament in its function. [[Abg. Wabl: The Götz has already been excreted?]] The responsibility for extending his role as a privileged leader here, Mr. Feurstein, is borne by the members of the Federal Government of the Austrian People's Party as well as by the Social Democratic Party. He was, of course, sent by us once, but we have drawn the consequences of his not being ready for reform. We have also been strongly criticized for the consequences that we have drawn in our ranks after 1987. "Father murderers", "Zie Mumbaiermörder" – these were expressions in connection with Dr. Götz, with Mr. State Secretary Ferrari-Brunnenfeld and as they called all those who went through our ranks. [[Abg. Wabl: Is Götz still a member or not?]] [[Call between the political groups.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] You, Mr Feurstein, and your colleagues in the two government parties have always cried crocodile tears when we have been able to get the privileges of freemen if they have no longer been confirmed by us in their offices. That was then pushed into our shoes in the public as a wild balding in our party. The fact is that the will for reform, which we liberals also have in the field of privileges – and precisely there! – have always shown in their own ranks and will continue to show in the future, and the fact that we have provided clean fronts in our own party has always been interpreted as democratically-political rounds. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see solidarity with the students of the weak families, that solidarity with the families, solidarity with the disabled, solidarity with our seniors and solidarity with the socially needy in this state would be as real as it always has been in the last nine years when some of the privileged rites in that state have come to the fore. I would like to see a real solidarity with the poor and the needy in this country formulated here in this Parliament, and not that there is a pseudo-democratic discussion here about the development of this Parliament and the development of the personality structure of our Members. The complaint of the Members' weekend and Sunday service is simply fresh in view of those professional groups that actually work on these days, such as the nurses, the doctors, the Red Cross drivers, the railways, the Monteure at the Kelag or the other EVUs, those people who are forced to survive in their professional life by their night work and weekend work. This is really not comparable to politicians who are represented during the weekends at the beer tent events, at the fire brigades and elsewhere rather as an essential task for self-production. I believe that the goal of the politician in the profession would be easier to achieve if we were not to shed crocodile tears on ourselves, but actually to express solidarity with those in need in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5714	The motion for a resolution, the honourable Member. It has read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5739	Mr President. Minister! High house! The urgent request made by the F movement states that this consolidation package affects families and public services in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! The Tristesse, which is being spread in here, can only be met with figures, facts and data. As far as the family is concerned: International studies, as well as domestic studies, show very clearly that Austria is at the forefront of family support in the OECD countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria employs twice as much for family promotion as the average of Western industrialized countries. Moreover, we are about 80 percent above the EU average. The 56 billion Schillings of direct family benefits from FLAF still amount to around 90 billion Schillings of family benefits from social security, the benefits of the countries and the municipalities – the tax deductions are added. So this total is about 200 billion schilling. In 1992 family benefits were significantly increased, and these improvements cost once again 30 billion schilling. Especially in recent years – let me remember that! – we have provided enormous benefits for families, but also for women: the billing of child training periods for pensions, the equal treatment package, promotion programmes for women, the family package with the tax direct redundancies and the now controversial second year of karenz leave in the parental leave extension law. Austria is the only state that has introduced a second Karenz holiday year. In view of these achievements, it can only be our goal, in principle, to ensure high-level family policy, women's policy, social policy services, and that in the long run – and not social impact, as Mr Haider has repeatedly called for. Mr Haider's proposal to delete the second Karenz holiday year without replacement is also one of this ballast. Furthermore, I have been saying for years now that FLAF is in a very precarious situation and that this means that the scope for action is very narrow. So if we want to ensure that our extensive support system and transfer services will remain financially viable in the future, then it is necessary to create additional jobs and secure the economic location of Austria and the currency – but also to consolidate the budget. Of course, consolidation measures are also in the interests of the families, because high budget deficits were ultimately again burdened by the families. It is therefore important to see the structural package as a whole, because of the need for saving, but also because of the need for structural reforms. Now on a karenz vacation: As already stated in the title of the 1990 parental leave law, the new regulation of leave was linked to the intention to involve the fathers in the karenz leave scheme. We must not forget that. This has, above all, failed because there are different income relationships between women and men, but this has also failed at the men's level of consciousness. Unfortunately, experience has shown us that women mainly take advantage of the second year of leave, but then these women have the biggest problems to get back into work in the working world to get into work. On average, women need 39 attempts to find a job after this "family break". We also have a problem, namely the cost burden, the family compensation fund and the unemployment insurance fund, which is enormous. This development has not been properly assessed by us, we must admit, this honesty must be applied. In addition to family policy, however, we have something positive to say about women's politics: After all, it is an opportunity for men to accept the invitation, accept their role and dedicate themselves to the children. But one thing is simply a bad occurrence from the point of view of the SPÖ women: for the single women who are exposed to the most frequent loads, no set of measures has been found to relieve them, a set of measures covering child care in various forms, because 40 000 women in Austria are considered to be inconceivable because they have mobility problems due to child care obligations. Many studies show us – lastly the Wifo study, which is only a few weeks old – that adaptations in family support are necessary, with the aim of distributing the existing resources even more precisely than before and even more targeted than before. So it is about increasing social security. The public service is also affected by this load package – as is the urgent request. Mr Haider forgets that this is exactly the professional group he has claimed as the head of the state of Carinthia that, before she wants to start working, she must first remove the spider weaves from the desk and that this is the group of persons he has called the bloodstainer of the taxpayers in Austria. This was certainly an "incitement" for the national staff in Carinthia. That was exactly what you need from a service provider as motivation. The aim of the "F" with all these requests is to suspect the political level of nothingness, to dissuade politicians as parasites and beans, to give the impression that participation in this political theatre – including the staging of today's special session – does not even justify the current references. A moral picture of decay is drawn by officials and politicians. The aim is to call the political system into question. The "F" goes into the role of the non-political, non-affected and undivided spectator. However, they also have officials in their own ranks and in the public sector, who are equally active there. And all of the "F" are subject to those laws and bear those incomes that have been decided here. Ladies and gentlemen! Their self-casting is limited to 60,000 S per month, 60,000 S net – at least 120,000 S gross – and is limited to the establishment of so-called social funds, where the funds are sifting and then sent back to the payers. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's huge!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] How do you actually appreciate your work if you want to reduce your salary by 30 percent? This may be the bad conscience in view of your poor use of work. The following question must be asked here: What is worth the work of a representative? It is not a complaint or pity, because one can change the state, but a show of facts, if one points out that we have a 70- to 80-hour week, no free weekend, no free evenings. We like to do that, because if we don't like it, we won't, but you can count it as a fact. And we must not forget what expenses we have as politicians. So we can let everyone know our merit, which remains net to us, calmly. It already belongs to a portion of idealism to make this use of this net amount with these expenses, which Mr Haider has demanded of us, especially when comparing this net amount with the average income of a person in the private sector who makes the same use of work. What, then, is worth the work and activity of a representative? Or, from the perspective of the "F" in the future, only wealth, owners, large-scale owners, only Mautner-Markhofs, Prinzhorns, Haselsteiners – Mr. Hazelsteiner, I thought you were already in the wine, drink and winding spa, as it was announced in the newspaper, but you are still here – and only Haiders do the politics? Or perhaps only those whose women run the businesses at home and speak of privileges here? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] They are opening our doors, because for over a year we have been working on achieving a transparent reference model. And when we talk about the professional group of officials, we talk about all the professional groups – all of them! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Released officials, union officials in your ranks! Look around!]] Savings and understanding of savings measures... [[Abg. Dolinschek: What was that feeling when your desk was gone?]] Mr Dolinschek! I would like to thank you for this idea, because this lie is giving your Mr Klubobmann a restless spread. That's simple and just a lie.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5820	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please be careful in the word "lying". They know what consequences this must have.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5841	Then this statement is a massive untruth, a pathological untruth. For at the beginning of December 1990 – Mr. Haider was, unfortunately, still the head of state at the time and I was a few weeks MP – I was informed by my former head of the Court of Justice Dr. Klammer that I had to change my office. On the same day, I was confirmed by Mr. Landesamtsdirektor Dr. Sladko. So I knew about it. So preparations had to be made for the transfer of the office. The transfer date was fixed by me, files, papers had to be packed, the furniture transported. I was there, I settled and set up the new office myself. For this there are a large number of witnesses, namely all my colleagues, the entire resettlement group, Mr Landesamtsdirektor, my head of department. And then suddenly, after all these works were done by me, Mr. Dolinschek, an amnesia has invaded me, an amnesia that seems to be just as a mental illness as spreading pathological untruths, then I did not know six weeks where my desk stands. – Interesting! So these stories of your party observer are simple and easy to refer to the realm of fables. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where was the desk?]] You can make fun of it as much as you want. I'll go see my desk as often as you do yours. The SPÖ has always rejected one, namely a ban on working for politicians. We have refused that policy is being pursued in the way a professional politician Haider does: Mr. Saubermann, for example, had been registered with the company Kostmann in St. Andrä from the first day, had a jobless income, had a service car available, but did not work there. Mr Haider, the Saubermann, was a Member, but did not waive his salary as the State Party Secretary. So he's got both salaries. But he wants to introduce something to us in this regard. We need mandates with contact to practice, mandates with expertise, and we need a transparent, manageable income system – I admit.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5901	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Lukesch. Please, honourable Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e5922	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! I do not wish to agree with the Freedom Party's right to convene an extraordinary meeting here and to make an urgent request, but I ask the ORF once to propel into the empty banks of the Freedom Party, where for an hour or a half of an hour neither the chairman of that party nor the deputy clubman have been present. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Five minutes!]] They spend a quarter of an hour giving a word, and then they're gone. And that's what you call duty fulfilment, and so you try to save your discussion in order to save the privileges. That's incredible! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] There's something to add: This urgent request must be put in a slightly wider context: The closer the day of the government's agreement on the 1996 and 1997 budgets is coming, the clearer it becomes that we do not need the Freedom Party to rule in Austria either this time. And that makes you nervous! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] One more thing to do They are nervous: the large amount of approval expressed by the Austrian population for this consolidation course. This agreement is becoming ever greater. People have come to realize that it is necessary. And that's what Mr. Haider comes out of the headlines. A second village he will not want to afford as soon as possible – I hope at least – and now he needs a new topic again, and he finds the load package and the political privileges! That's the truth! That's why we're sitting there today. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you really believe this?]] – Oh, yes, my dear colleague! For years you have always been talking about the budget debate – Mr Bauer was always speaking in this regard – the budget policy that complains of debt policy, even in those years when the new debt is 3 or 3.2 percent. And then you have always seasoned this criticism of budget policy with your own demands. The additional claims of 100 billion schilling without financing alternatives from 1994 and 1995 are still very good in my mind. These were your proposals. [[Abg. Böhacker: Were those the dizziness budgets?]] Nor should the public forget that at the last meeting of the National Council, 20 motions for resolutions by the Liberal Party, which, Mr Donabauer said gratefully, would have resulted in an additional burden, a new net deficit of 50 billion schilling. So they would not have made savings, but they would have had to spend even more public money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 50 billion more!]] That is exactly the reason for this meeting: Because you do not have any alternatives – you can also say that the opposition is not responsible for this, well, but then you should not convene any such special meetings – you have to march towards political privileges right now. The Austrian People's Party has a clear attitude towards the re-regulation of political relations. My colleague, Mr Feurstein, has already said this: We acknowledge that there should be no non-profit income for politicians. That's our credo! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because Mr Haigermoser pointed to me in this connection with the naked finger and then immediately apologized the shoulders again, I can already personalize it. I have been a professor of civil servants since the service reform under Minister Fischer. And as such, I recognize that I am doing this profession. I also recognize that I fully exercise my vocation as a politician. I read my full teaching commitment. I take care of diplomas and dissertations. I personally take about 350 exams a year. And I'm writing a textbook on political economy. I am convinced that those who are in the position of civil servants at the university, from your ranks, from our ranks, from the ranks of the Social Democrats, from the ranks of the Greens, who hold it the same way. And for 100 percent performance, these professors receive 75 percent of the planned income. So this isn't about privileges. [[Call to the liberals: Do you have a bad conscience?]] No, I don't have a bad conscience. But you're so flattering here in general. The officials – this is a group that can apparently be picked up, as there is no serious danger, as one is aware of the approval of the large masses. That's not true. I am also of the opinion – Mr Mertel has already said it – that we should not only afford professional politicians here in the House, but also politicians, national councils and Members should remain arrested in their civil profession and be active in this profession as skilled women and men. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two questions in your question, however, make me bold, and I believe that your argumentation is quite different. It seems to be heading in the direction that the return on travel costs and certain distance allowances and so on are also privileges. This is on the "F" model of the free politician or, let us say, the cheap politician. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Meischberger model!]] You should check with your colleague Meischberger. In 1992, on the occasion of the Tyrolean municipal elections, the Freemans have propagated the Free Citizen. Not a municipal head has brought you this argument. None of you have reached Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what the public, what the voters rightly demand of the taxpayers, are top performances in politics, not cheap offers à la Liberties. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has already been done in the area you are also addressing, for example within the Chambers, within the framework of the electricity industry. I am surprised that you are asking a question in which the Chamber of Commerce will also be included in the same standard as the "heart" of the privileges. Since 1990, there have been very decisive reforms in this chamber organization, no more Pragmatizations, a reduction in staff, a slim organization with the corresponding savings, with the functionals of course no 13th, 14. salary, no pension entitlement, no settlement. A total of 800 million schillings have been saved here. These important reforms, which have been implemented there, are also reflected in results: The inquiry on the maintenance of the board as a legal representative gave 82 percent consent and thus a clear abdominal area of the F that wanted to eliminate it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government, together with the social partners, has developed a reform package following the challenge of the Christmas season last year, which can very well bring stability in Austria, which gives impetus to employment policy, to structural reforms in the budget, which are so important and also contribute to strengthening Austria's competitiveness. This package obviously requires victims, without a doubt from all sections of the population, victims who are socially balanced. We politicians are willing to contribute to this – but not through an ominous social fund à la Libertiese in Burgenland. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6080	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6102	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you have a few more 20s?]] I have a bit of an impression that in this debate one Member of Parliament is going to speak to the other and proves how much he is involved in the reduction of privileges, how decent he is to regulate his individual affairs. Mr. Lukesch has made this clear here. It even works at 100 percent, but accounts for only 75 percent. I don't quite understand why you're taking this. - But, well, that's your thing. Mr Feurstein comes to the pult, Mrs Mertel says she is also busy every night and her net salary is not really very high. Mr Herb has not missed the opportunity to present his tax statement: He earns only 32 000 s net at all. The greatest privilege reduction is of course Mr Haider, because he has been promising for years that his colleagues will take only 60 000 s. Ladies and gentlemen! If he said they'd only take 120 000 s, that would look quite different in the public. I think there is a simple recipe for this discussion. On the one hand – and that is what I say in each of these discussions – you all have a right to decent payment here when you do your work – and I think that most people do. [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] I believe that you can also refer to it and represent it in the public. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think of a competitor who gives more of his salary. But one thing must be clear once and for all: The discussion cannot be held in such a way that anyone is taken out and then accused of not working in his place and therefore it is a privilege to do what he does. We must have general rules for this, which are decided by the majority in this House. It cannot be left to any single Member, either Mr Moser or Mr Wabl or Mr Haider or anyone else, whether he uses or not the possibility of the laws, and in the meantime he is beaten by the public for them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I recall the example of Mrs Traxler. It was a witch boiler in public. Mrs Traxler left the SPÖ, and she claimed unemployment benefit at the time. Then came the great teacher of morality and of grace, the Minister of Social Affairs, and said: I can't! – Ladies and gentlemen! If the political income is not income, this would be granted to the woman Traxler. It is absolutely unsustainable that this house acts as if it were in the personal desire of the individual, whether he is decent or not. That's a very different question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can also be indecent if you don't cash. You can also steal money, you can hide money, you can go through heredity and so on – and you can still face the public. You can do all kinds of things. You can also earn in unreasonable transactions, anywhere you can make money. That is not the question, ladies and gentlemen. We must agree here in this House on this. And I'm very clear to you: For more than a decade, the ÖVP and the SPÖ have been in control of those incomes that take place without work. Ladies and gentlemen! This would have had SPÖ and the ÖVP in hand: in Styria, in Carinthia, in Vienna, here in this house. Mr Khol, Mr Kostelka, you would have been able to make these entries. But no! Ten years ago, you hated it. Mr Kohlmaier made fun of this discussion when he said: Again and again, you have also brought to our attention today this "reichum" of the politicians who are being attacked here again and who want to suggest to the people. We have long abolished the privileges. – Kohlmaier then defended all that is our system that we are talking about today in a verbal speech. And there was the applause of the FPÖ very great, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You can't say that!]] Here you can read: Kohlmaier – Page 3643, XVIII. GP, applause with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ. – Mr Kohlmaier then represented his position, someone who is certainly not the epitome of abandonment. Mr Feurstein! You have been quoted in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" as decently you arrange your official's terms. You go into your office with a card, Stechuhr, come out again, Stechuhr again – and then cash what the Stechuhr shows. Mr Feurstein! If you get out of here and say you're not doing political work on your desk, don't have a political phone call, I'm saying, Shut up! But you won't be able to explain this to me here. That is the problem, Mr Feurstein. However, as a member of a majority party, they have made a relative - I say this also with respect - regulation, but they know very well that those officials who belong to the ÖVP in the Styria are getting a job that they can still do by the way. That's where the political business with the office business is messing up. That is exactly what is incompatible. And you cannot control this – even if Mr Schlögl claims a hundred times that he can do so – whether the official business or the political business is carried out. There are areas that are clearly incompatible. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: solution?]] That is why we made a request here in 1988, Mr Bauer. We bring it back to us today, regarding a federal law that amends the referee law. And so that you will not be attacked - as in 1988, 1993, 1994 - we are bringing the proposal into committee so that Commissioners Neisser and Schlögl can read it. We put forward concrete legislative proposals for the following areas: Distinguishing the right to pay of the Supreme Institutions from the pay schedule of public servants, determining the remuneration of the top institutions directly in the referee law, taking into account the current savings debate, the transfer of the right of residence of politicians to the general pension system, or defined by the profession. We can also talk about whether this is more reasonable, as Mr Peter suggests, whether one sees the political profession as a profession of freedom. It is proposed, therefore, that the general pension system of the profession be introduced. Further proposals: To create a general right to leave against the loss of remuneration, leave of leave from all employment opportunities for politicians, not just for officials. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a privilege that an official can return to his profession; he cannot do so in the private sector. – And if we want not only officials to sit in these houses, we must generalise this privilege – or abolish it. We need to discuss this. Of course, it is very difficult if someone else becomes a politician at all. In these moving political times, everyone will consider: At the next election I'm gone, and then I don't have a job anymore! But we need to talk about what someone does who comes from the private industry. Further proposals: Renewal of insurance periods under the Unemployment Insurance Act after the end of the leave. Prohibition of the reference of unemployment benefit during the exercise of a function as the Supreme Body and, I believe, a very important point – strengthening the position of the free parliament and the other state institutions by prohibiting party or club tax. Ladies and gentlemen! This unsitting with the party taxes – I say this quite openly here – has also been hidden among the Greens. And that's wrong! It is unacceptable that Members should be able to justify themselves without interruption for references which they are not actually categorising, but rather to take away from the party. That is why these taxes must be removed. We need a political content that is transparent, publicly accessible and reasonable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It can be high, but it must be reasonable. Then, no longer must Mrs Mertel come here and modestly say that I deserve only 30 000 s anyway. I'm so poor anyway. I have 120 000 S gross, but I only get 30,000 S. That's not reasonable. This has grown historically, but it has to be abolished. One of the most important points, ladies and gentlemen: There must be transparency in party funds and in party donations, as we also need transparency in political power. I think it unbearable that we stand in front of the voters and the voters constantly and do not talk about it: It is interesting for the voters and for the voters, which wealth I have and how wealth growth during the time of a public function were. It is interesting for the voters and the voters to see how high income is, also in the private sector, ladies and gentlemen; even in the free country of America this is so common. Only: What Mr Haider has called for here today, namely the disclosure of salaries, has been repeatedly rejected, especially by you, by the FPÖ. In 1988 a request was made by the Greens. The Social Democrats were still ready to talk, because they obviously receive fewer donations from the economic sector. It is interesting if you get a donation from a large commercial company, from a car company, so that we know why you behave in the field of energy tax. This is not unfair, but the voters and voters want to know. Ladies and gentlemen! Another sentence on Holda Harrich and Mr Ebner. Mr President, I think it is a shame that you call these two names in one breath. Mrs Holda Harrich was here very briefly in this House, has been excruciated due to illness and has tried to get a pension for illness. She has requested such a request – and that has been rejected. They could say that this was an insolence of her because she had only imagined to be ill. – I don't know, I'm not a doctor either. Only: To compare this with a case from the Styria by which this whole privilege debate was re-played, especially in the case of Ebner, where Mr Ebner has exposed himself to the suspicion of fraud, is an insanity, Mr Haupt! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You should take that back. In fact, this whole discussion should take place today under the title: "Haider eats himself to Ebner", ladies and gentlemen. Ebner is actually the reason for this urgent request for privileges reduction. Ebner is a model example of insolent enrichment in connection with privileges. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the fact that the Social Democrats and their Mr Flecker and Mr Strenitz are following up on this is a mistake of beauty, which I hope will soon all be ready, ladies and gentlemen. If we had the disclosure of income, the disclosure of remuneration and the disclosure of wealth, then we would have known years ago what game Ebner plays – and then we would not have this discussion here today. That's why I say: Any individual solution of the donation may be your wonderful private matter. You are being measured here by whether you are making applicable laws that are correct and can be understood for all and not become a public nuisance. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6217	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6239	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you have today taken the privilege of saying that you are not competent to answer this urgent question on a number of questions. Federal Minister of Climate! I'd invite you: In the future, take the privilege of telling the truth here in the House. They have also declared today that the tax package brings 33 billion schilling on additional burden for Austrian citizens. That's wrong! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Federal budget, I said!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you know exactly – the numbers come from your house: The total burden on Austrian taxpayers is not 33, but 44,5 billion schilling. – Minister of State! Even if you want to limit this to the federal budget: You have said that the consolidation, burden, emergency programme will only bring 33 billion schilling on the revenue side. With the following, Minister of State, I will give you the right to: They have meant that all the action relating to early pensions makes sense only if the corresponding jobs are created. You also said that it was a great concern for you to start an employment programme in order to create or maintain these jobs. In this context, you have put forward some measures, but, Mr Federal Minister, I must say to you: All this is not new. I only remind you of the following: ==References== It was published in the APA in November 1994: "In the presence of all the members of the government and the Federal President, German Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky presented his 55-page government statement on Wednesday morning in the National Council, whose content he referred to as a comprehensive, offensive and courageous programme. The open and courageous projects include the creation of 200 000 additional workers for Vranitzky." Of course, the ÖVP could not follow back, and the then ÖVP Federal Party Minister Erhard Busek said he wanted to create 125 000 jobs with his economic plan. Some time later, Wolfgang Schüssel came, who was much more generous. ==References== April 1995: Employment impulse programme with part-time work for next legislative period, 250 000 new jobs. ==References== September 1994 to: Some 50,000 new jobs in Austria bring about the economic upturn caused by EU accession. This is a fact why the forthcoming EU accession of Austria will be carried and no new taxes or taxes will be necessary. – So the programme of the so-called reconstruction partnership of ÖVP and SPÖ. No new taxes, it was called. Together – in these promises – there are about half a million new jobs! Do you know the result? In 1995 300 000 unemployed, a record, and around 3,000 fewer workers in total. This is the missing policy of this red-black coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They also meant that the capital market in Austria should be strengthened to create risk capital. I can speak to you, Mr Federal Minister, on the occasion of your second speech. In this House, which you referred to, among other things, on the subject of capital markets, is a reminder here in April 1993. They said: They know that only 4 percent of the 2.8 trillion Schilling, now 3.8 trillion, are on the stock market in Austria, as it is on the high edge. They have therefore called for fiscal measures in order to achieve a recovery of the capital market. But what are your measures to boost the capital market? – You delete or halve the special expenditure for the purchase of "young" shares! – Is this your programme for the recovery of the capital market? – That’s exactly the wrong way you’re going! Federal Minister! They have given their opinion on the support, suspension of the exemption decisions, and have meant that it should not happen that any employee will receive a tax payment once. Federal Minister! We do not take these tears into consideration. The suspension of allowances is, in two respects, a massive burden on employees in Austria. First of all, from 1st of all. There will no longer be a single exemption on July 1996, and there will be no exemption from 1997 at all. Also, those special expenditures that will not be subject to any reduction in the future, such as pensions and permanent charges, the increased advertising costs, will no longer be deductible from July 1996 and throughout 1997. What does that mean? . This means that every worker has a higher basis for calculating the wage tax, that many workers will have to slip into the next level of progression and pay a tax which is not intended for them at all, and only years later, due to the strenuous burden of workers, will the Minister of Finance repay this pointless loan to workers with two years' delay. This is raubriterism, and this is directed against the working citizens of our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They also talked about preventing and restricting or prohibiting losses. Mr. Feurstein – he is now no longer in the house – is an excellent social rights expert. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He went to dinner with Lukesch!]] Oh, it's Luke! Good appetite. Mr Feurstein is an excellent specialist in social matters, but when he speaks of tax law, he does so like a blind man of colors. But in this regard, he is in good company: Professor Novotny, the SPÖ's financial spokesperson, also seems to know the difference between loss deduction, loss compensation horizontal, vertical and loss presentation. [[Abg. Koppler: Now we've heard what you can do!]] Professor Novotny, you have shown this in the discussion on the matter, when you have responded to my accusation that the loss reduction is to be suspended, even partially forbidden, with the loss stakes. That is to say, I have to assume that you do not know this difference in tax law – just as Mr Feurstein, who, as I have said, does not know what loss relief, loss participation, loss compensation of horizontal loss compensation, is vertical loss compensation. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I am willing to explain this to you again, Mr President. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It is not true what you said that Feurstein is not in the house! He's here!]] He just came in; I just addressed Him. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I just wanted to say it so it's on the record!]] Please take the following minutes to register: Mr Feurstein is just entering the plenary room. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then you're not quite closed!]] But now to limit or suspend the loss claim: It is indeed true that well-known tax lawmakers have at least considered this tax measure to be unconstitutional. There is the tax Senate at the Chamber of Economic Trustees, which, by prohibiting loss deduction, fears the risk of the existence of many entrepreneurs. Federal Minister! I know that this measure is rather a "Lex Ver Statelichter". They have seen that the national authorities cost Austrian citizens and taxpayers about 120 billion schillings, that we still have to pay 5 to 6 billion schillings annually by the year 2017. [[Abg. Koppler: Do you believe all of this yourself?]] Go, Koppler, please! You can go down here and talk. [[Abg. Koppler: You can't leave it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: For the protocol: Koppler is awake!]] The fact is that with regard to national agents it is said that it is now able to pay the corresponding corporation tax without further delay. They mean the nationalists, but they are making thousands of small entrepreneurs, especially those entrepreneurs who have made structural adjustments in recent years, with regard to the enlargement of the East, with a view to the EU and... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] No, not 1989. These companies cannot claim losses either in 1996 or in 1997; this will be suspended. They can only do that again in 1998. [[New interim remark by the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Mr Minister, I can only tell you the following: In Germany there is even a loss return. But you're putting off losses here. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: In Germany they have to pay more in advance!]] This is at the expense of equity! This is lost forever in those farms that have made losses in 1989 and 1990. It is interesting, Mr Federal Minister, that Austrian income tax law does not leave the entrepreneur any choice when he wishes to claim his loss claim, but it is prescribed to him: In the first year in which profits are achieved, these losses must be claimed. They are now breaking through this golden principle by the Federal Government, saying: Because it now fits us into the budget situation, we are putting it off for just two years. Federal Minister! This is contrary to the existing tax system! This is an blatant imbalance of taxation! Those who have made losses in the years 1990, 1991 or 1992 may deduct them. But those who have written losses in 1989 or 1990 can no longer do so. This is lost forever, and this is at the expense of equity. Especially in your speech of 2. In April 1993, you complained that the Austrian industry was suffering from a very weak capital base. – That is why this measure of suspending or abolishing certain loss amortisation must be particularly criticised. However, they also meant that the introduction of a minimum corporation tax or the increase in the minimum rate from 15 000 S to 50 000 S per year would be necessary. – This too, Mr Federal Minister, is counterproductive with regard to your demand for a wave of founders of new companies. I ask you: How are young and innovative people to set up a business, for example in the form of a GesmbH, and to pay 250 000 S of minimum stock capital for it? If you deduct 100 000 S, only 150 000 S. remains – then three more years of minimum corporation tax and the company is argued by state because of a law that you are still forcing! "founder wave"? – That is absolute nonsense, and that is also constitutionally more than worrying! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It appears, however, that in particular of...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6439	Your speaking time is over. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The light has lighted, the 15 minutes are over. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] May I ask you to come to your conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6466	I should like to make another motion for a resolution, in line with Mr Hazelsteiner's approach, and I would like to apologize for this one-off error. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6530	This motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and has been presented at the rapid pace. Ladies and gentlemen! I now also have the motion for a resolution, which Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner read earlier, with the corresponding signatures. I would also like to include this in the negotiations, as well as the Böhacker request, in the order in which the applications are submitted: so request may. Chief, Böhacker and then the Liberal Forum's request. I would, however, ask the Liberal Forum to avoid in the future this divergence between reading and passing over at the Bureau. The next item is the speech by Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, I am disturbed by the fact that many of the arguments that are not comparable to each other are very much mixed. It also bothers me that accusations are made by people who cannot actually show a clean vest. Example: I have read the urgent question and have seen the signatures of Mr Lammer. Mr Haider! You have today in the discussion the officials who attacked Members here who are referring to unemployment income. . I assume that you are aware that your questioner, Mr Lammer, is also a beneficiary of unemployment income. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to draw your attention to the following fact – and I am addressing my very personal situation here: Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that you can all imagine – justified or not – that, if the teacher were to apply for the head office of his school, he would clearly have to expect to get the answer: Mr President, I do not think that is possible. You as a politician can't be a headmaster! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I therefore ask you: How do you appreciate, Mr Haider - I ask you to listen to me - that your Council of State in Salzburg, Mr Thaller, apply for the notary in Saalfelden. – And of course he gets the notary in Saalfelden! [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's the sense of this stump, this nonsense?]] It is measured with completely different standards. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to make a few comments on Mr Haider's comments. Mr Haider said in a press release that he expected a performance-oriented payment of politicians according to their work in the committees. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Mr Haider does not know that there are a limited number of committees, and that there are a limited number of Members in the committees. So how should it be possible that all 183 Members are represented in such a large number of committees that they will be able to make a corresponding payment? Furthermore, the question arises as to how to evaluate and measure the presence or work in the committees. Does this depend on the number of words, contributions to discussions or proposals for initiative, or are other criteria decisive for this? I believe that these are proposals which are unscrupulous and essentially do not contribute to the improvement of the situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that it is sometimes difficult for me to agree with Mr Wabl, but he has today put forward arguments which I understand very well and which I stress in stages. I would like to make it clear from the outset: I do not want to be labeled a pityer, it does not force me to exercise this function here, but I do not want to abstain from a description of my very personal situation, because I know that many of you – no matter which party you belong to – have similar framework conditions to me, and I wonder how long we should live with them. I believe that it is certainly difficult to classify politicians in the way they pursue the private profession, but at the same time to release the officials. It has been mentioned earlier as an example by Mr Feurstein. In principle, I ask: Should it not be considered in the context of this discussion who is actually in a position to carry out such a work? For example, one Member of Parliament works on a desk, and the Stechuhr can be used as proof of its presence. But what should I do as a teacher? The students aren't exactly at school when I have time. They'd be very grateful if they had to come to school on vacation. This means that from the outset there is a professional group which does not have this possibility. The next thing that is not being taken into account in the debate which is currently taking place is the fact that Members have different paths to deal with and are thus subject to different time constraints. Mr Haider! I assume on the condition that you are diligent that you are on the move a lot. But there is a big difference between you and me: You're driving through the area with a big car, but you're not sitting on the steering wheel like me, but you're sitting in the car's fund, so for you, driving is very good working time. You have the opportunity to use the hours you spend in the car to make sense. As a Member of Parliament, I am on the road in about 30 000 kilometres a year. I invite you to calculate how many hours are 30,000 kilometres at an average speed – determine how high you want. I ask you: When should I perform the corresponding work – whether I work as an official or in any civil profession? I spend one month each year on the train! For me, a meeting in Vienna means at least ten hours of driving. We must therefore assume that these 183 Members have different frameworks, but at the same time they must be able to comply with their work here in the House carefully and conscientiously. That is to say, there must be no grounds for exclusion. It cannot be the future of this Parliament that a negative outcome will be achieved and then only the Schölls, the Haiders, the Haselsteiners, the Prinzhorns and so on in Parliament, because they can set it up. The question is how this is with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Swims! It's me. How many miles you're going!]] Mr Haigermoser! You are so unimportant that you do not even appear in this list, not even in the last place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls.]] Mr President. Could you make sure I can continue my speech? Thank you. May I, please, continue my speech undisputed? Sit down, Mr Haigermoser! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we must take very seriously into account in our further work that there is the following unjust income, namely unemployed income. I myself am a worker of a unemployed income, and I do not think that is all right. But at the same time – and I say this with all my self-confidence – I would like to replace that I am not able to practice my profession. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Mrs Colleagues, if you are working, this is not an unemployed income. You may have the opportunity to go to the office or go to another job. I don't have this opportunity. I would therefore like to have a substitute for not being able to carry out my work. I would like us to consider the future situation with a lot of confidence, and I invite you to consider the following: If a pyramid of income is spoken of, then I must say that I am already disturbed by the use of this term, since a pyramid is a burial place, and I hope that it will not become such for us. But this income pyramid must ensure, in the future, that all those who have difficult conditions and cannot fulfil their work are compensated. Mr Schwarzenberger, for example, is doing something similar to me; he has to set aside similar routes and a similar time effort to me. I would like to tell Mr Wabl: In the long run, it is not justified that the party tax is regarded as an income component, even though it must be deducted from the population. This means distorting our income, and it seems to be far higher than that which is de facto the case. Ladies and gentlemen! If I have referred to you as an example of my situation, I have done so with self-confidence, and in this case I very much distinguish myself from many others. Mr Haigermoser has made himself strong in interlocutory calls, he will also perform his work, but I do not see Mr Haigermoser driving anywhere in his constituency. My constituency is twice as large as Vorarlberg, it includes 5 415 square kilometres. This means that appropriate routes must be taken back, which is also associated with great time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You advise me to step back in your call. You once suggested playing mayors for free. No cock was interested in that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm worried about your health!]] I can tell you one thing: I have received so many preferential votes during the last election that each of you can only dream of it. So be quiet. She doesn't even want anyone if you work for free. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we must assume that, in the future, appropriate political salaries will be paid, from which we can live and which the people will also accept. For it will be right for every one of you to tell me that I want you to refer to what I can understand. The reward shall be fair, for you have a corresponding effort, you have appropriate effort. I believe that the discussion we are discussing here is rather a deplorable one, because we are making each other bad, we are adapting to each other, that does not mean anything to the future situation at all. I would like us to enter into a discussion across the party borders, whose result is a salary which will in the future, on the one hand, satisfy our work needs and, on the other hand, takes into account the different conditions and, on the other hand, includes a difference between the working people. That means self-confidence is needed. But when we deal with this issue with reason, I also see a chance to solve this problem for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6677	Mr Laiber, rapporteur, has been informed of an actual correction. Mr deputies, please bring the facts to be corrected and then your presentation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6698	Mr President. Minister! Mr Emmerich Schwemleinhat claimed that I would receive an unemployment allowance in addition to my parliamentary relationship. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's true that it's saying... Get income!]] That's wrong! I'm correcting: I have the necessary time for policy under the Civil Service Law. The other time I have to spend at my office and carry out my service there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6737	Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mühlbachler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e6758	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Schwemmlein has said in his conclusion, I think I should like to underline all those who are trying to do this in the House. However, I do not believe that the urgent question of the F is the appropriate instrument for dealing with this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Dr. Haider! Stay there! I think I can tell you a lot about what's going on in your party. What you've offered today is dreary straw! [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to keep in mind the following: There are in the Lande Oberösterreich, in the district of Freistadt as in all other districts of Upper Austria, a medium called "F-Dialogue", and in this "F-Dialogue" the greetings of the Grands of the Upper Austria are published. Among other things, Landes Partyobmann writes Dr. Achatz, who is a special class sauberman: Special pensions for politicians: When do you finally think about it and get rid of it?" Imagine: This is hardly printed, because one of the "F" mandatare goes into retirement for disease, although he writes earlier, mandaters do not have a right to pension, and although he accuses all other parties that they are actually robbing the people and the actual predators! – That’s how it sounds time and again when Mr. Dr. Haider, Mr. Böhacker or Mr. Mag. Stadler's word is: They suggest that they are the cleaners and really mean the matter. They want to make the people aware that they alone are in possession of the truth. But if they come into a situation in which they can be used for them, then they fall against their principles if they have any. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Then it happens exactly the same thing that happened today. Today Dr. Haider quoted the clubman of ÖVP Niederösterreich and called a few horning amounts. It was the same thing to read in the "F-Dialogue". There the "F" member of a district accused a small mayor of accumulating income. And he mentioned in this medium hearing amounts and claimed... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] Let me tell you something. – This "F" member has claimed that the mayor registers a mayor's expense compensation of 23 000 S, cashes from the district waste association 15 000 S and cashes as a state official 30 000 S. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pecunia non olet!]] The so-called mayor then defended himself: The fact is that, as mayor, he has received 14 000 s of compensation, and the fact is that he has received 5 000 s as the chairman of the waste association. [[Abg. Meisinger: You're two years back!]] Assemblies of this kind have today made Dr. Haider the clubman of the Landtage of Lower Austria Böhm. Their particulars serve only to slander your opponents and to bring them to a bad light. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Madl: They're two years back, as always!]] ) I'm not back by two years. [[Abg. Madl: Two years ago it was 5,000, now it is 15,000!]] Mrs Madl! They don't even know each other and want to talk with you! Now I'm gonna tell you something: In the "F-Dialogue, this F-deputy writes that he avoids his expense compensation in the cleaning association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] – Imagine: Now he has retired, has come to the Reinhaltungsverband and has said that he would like to receive the expenses compensation for 1995 and 1994! - That's your "moral"! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Yes, yes, that's how you do it!]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: He wanted it on hand!]] I think it is clear from examples that you have the right to talk about privileges at all. Unfortunately, Mr Wabl is not here. But his speech must also be addressed. Mr Wabl last week, I think, gave his hand to passers-by in Graz and distributed to her a "privileged-twenty" one. - That's amazing. – And he did so with the remark that there was no way of giving up his unemployed income as an official. That's where I have to teach him better. I have been a teacher myself and I am still a teacher, but a unemployed teacher, because I am now a politician. [[Abg. Dispute, do not destroy him.]] I won't destroy any excuses! As a politician, I wrote nine nice lines to the National School Council for Upper Austria in 1989. – That’s where I wrote, among other things: I quit 1st. On 1 December 1989 all the components of the remuneration due to me from my employment relationship with the Federal Government after payment of the social security contributions. This remission can be revoked at any time. Such a revocation shall be effective with the month-first to be followed by the competent authority of the service provider and shall apply only to the fee which occurs after the withdrawal is effected. Then I got on 12th. In March 1990 the Landesschulerat für Oberösterreich sent the following reply: Their explanation of 8. From 1 November to 1 November. It shall be taken note of on the basis of the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, on the basis of the information provided by the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on the interpretation of Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, of the Treaty on European Union, of the With regard to the reservation of the withdrawal of this declaration, it is agreed that the possibility of withdrawal is only given if, during the duration of the exercise of the mandate as a Member of the National Council, you take up your teaching profession partly or entirely at a federal school. With friendly greetings. [[Abg. Auer: Give Wabl a copy of your letter, he can't formulate such a thing himself!]] I can now also show Wabl what results from this: Month by month I receive a wage bill from the National School Council for Upper Austria with the amount of zero. This shows: Everyone can imitate that, he thinks, for his unemployed income, he should not get a big deal! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a matter of fact, Mr Wabl's speech is no different from a call for help to Parliament: Dear Parliament! Please protect me from my own desire! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you can clearly see that the EIA is really serious with the reduction of privileges. However, I do not like what is said here, for example, about double-politics. One thing I would like to say to you: If I am also mayor in my capacity as a member of the national council and spends more than 50 hours a week, then I do not let Dr. Haider say that I can get a compensation of less than 20 000 s per month. I'm asking him: Because of what is the fact that as a clubman he has a salary equal to the salary of a minister? – If he already doubts that he is doing work, I must ask him this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] High Clubobmann! This question is not addressed to you. I know you work a lot. I doubt Dr. Haider's. [[Abg. May. Main: His salary, however, is not that of a minister!]] In view of the fact that ÖVP and SPÖ are in a position to regulate political relations quite clearly and clearly, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would like to ask the honourable Member to bring this motion for a resolution to the vote. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7007	Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution is accordingly supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7031	Mr President. Dear Minister Hums! Mr. Klima! Disabled people have never been one of the privileged people in Austria to date, and they will probably never belong to them either. In the savings package, however, the group of disabled and in need of care has been asked not only once to cash out, but two and three times. Not only do disabled people say the regular cuts and savings: The reduction in the special expenditure of cetera must be borne, and the income of people with disabilities will have a massive impact on the income of disabled people in the area of care and the reduction of the disability allowance. But that alone is not at all. The biggest attack, which is really worst for me, concerns old people who are in the nursing home. These people, who really have nothing left and are reduced to bed and night castle in their lives, have been reduced by 50 percent to the pocket money of 1,138 s, which they had so far, which is 20 percent of the care level III. Old and disabled people living in the home now have the right to a pocket money in the context of the care money of say and write 569 S! Minister Klima! If you say, Today, no one gets up and says: I'm not affected by this savings package, then you're right. But you must also be aware that you have forced these people, who may no longer be standing or can only lie anymore, into bed even further and into their old home. Because with so little pocket money you can no longer afford to live in the nursing home at the age, perhaps also to spend a bit of free time outside of these walls! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find it shocking and inhuman that it is allowed to limit old people to 569 s per month. You have to imagine that! Every single one of us needs this if he eats in the evening and then maybe he's going to have a drink. Then these 569 s are gone one night in three hours. And old people should meet their private needs for a whole month! This is simply not possible, and it is not allowed to do so in Austria! The Social Democrats promised: We won't take anything away from the pensioners. – But they took something away from them! They didn't take anything from the pension, but they reduced the care allowance. The big winners in this reduction of the care money in the form of pocket money are once again the countries. – I have been talking about years ago that the big abuse of care money is in the field of the countries, because these are cashing care money for people who are in a home. That's what's set up now. As of the second day of the hospital stay, there will be no care allowance for the hospital facilities. These are huge losses that the countries have to take right. However, in order to make up for these losses, the fee for the disabled is deleted and the defaults are brought back in this way. And that's just taken! It is really unbearable, inhuman and really last-class, what you can afford in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, these measures have not only affected the care allowance and the allowance of people with disabilities. The many restraints are also a very, very big problem for disabled people. Once again, if you are disabled, you simply need your rehabilitation on a regular basis, so that you can sit back and perhaps go back to your profession. The introduction of self-retaining in the context of rehabilitation makes it really difficult for some people to be able to afford this rehabilitation in the future – or whether they will sit until they can no longer be able to do so, and then they have to go into retirement anyway. If this is to be the meaning of this saving, I can guarantee you today that the follow-up costs for no longer palatable rehabilitation will be enormously high. But there has been no thought about this, because the savings in the disabled sector are really only to be described as short-term. No consequential damage was calculated in any way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For disabled people, however, there is much worse, because now the so-called voluntary social year is also being discussed that young people should work in the old-age home, in the social sector. That is, work for the disabled, work for old people at a zero rate – no matter what training someone has, whether or not he wants to do it, according to the motto: Well, the old and disabled people should be happy if someone is there for them who offers them help – no matter if he is able or willing. We are trying to save costs in the old and disabled areas in every possible way. I wonder very slowly whether we are getting back to the fact that there are no longer any disabled people and old people in Austria. The trend is that we are already too expensive for you and are now being tried in every way to reduce our costs. It can't go on like this! We saw light in the tunnel for the first time in 1993, with the introduction of the increased care allowance. We have felt that it is also a bit of freedom for disabled and old people to live a piece of self-determined life by providing us with the financial means. We have noted at this time that a large number of older people no longer went to the nursing home, but have remained at home that disabled people have organized their own help and no longer depended on outpatient services that disabled and old people have become self-employed and powerful citizens. – And this is now being radically reversed. One wants to push us back into the role of the bitters and the alms receivers – just before 2000, in a country that is one of the richest countries in the world. They also talked about women's night work today. Night work is said to be forbidden for women. - That's a mistake. The worst paid jobs make women at night. What do you think you're doing in hospitals at night? What do you think who works in the old houses at night? - Wicked women! Another thing that's very serious for us: They have also failed in this savings package to ensure that caregivers would have been insured under social security law, although this has been promised since 1993. Nothing happened. One simply still expects it and takes it as a matter of course that wives, that daughters-in-law that mothers care for their children and relatives at a zero rate, without any social security insurance, even without any insurance at all! If today the family dies and the woman has taken care of the care for 20, 30 years, she is in front of nothing. It is not entitled to unemployment benefit, nor has it been able to obtain a pension in any form. This maladministration has persisted – in addition to all the serious savings made in women: Women are even more burdened. Women need to do even more for society, and women get even less for this benefit than before. That can't be a solution! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] Mr Feurstein! You said there were no cuts in the care allowance. If you really believe that, then I must say, you have forgotten that only today's newspapers are full of the fact that there is very much a saving of care money. They have agreed to withdraw the level one after which only 2 635 s per month of care allowance is granted. If this is not a reduction, Mr Feurstein, what is a reduction? Or if you believe that it is not automatically a reduction if you do not guarantee the valorization, I ask you: What is it then? You don't want to hear all this! They really try to lie to the very coldly disabled and old people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They do not seriously believe that people do not understand that they do not know! The times have long passed that you and your statements have been trusted. Now you're acting like you wouldn't hear anything. Please note that we are disabled people and that the old people also do not want to be lied to by anyone – even from you! [[Congratulations on the Greens, on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Minister Climate has also tried to get money into the budget at the expense of the disabled. I do not think it is a secret that for some eight or nine years – I have not been able to follow it closely – the tax exemptions in the field of the disabled have not been increased. They have not been raised in this budget either, but they have been tried by the Minister for Climate Change to remove disability benefits. You wouldn't believe it, but: They always find ways to stop holes at the expense of the disabled. I think that's unbearable! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] Minister Klima! As Minister of Transport, they have not been able to adapt public transport in such a way that they can be made accessible to all disabled people, to all citizens, without barriers, but our allowances, which have so far covered at least to a minimum, have already taken us away! You don't have any scruples. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would like to give up our freedom of movement, which we will receive for not being able to use public transport. It would be preferable for us to use all public transport and to travel by underground at 17 p.m. instead of having to provide a service which requires 346 p.m. for the route from the West Railway Station to the Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore ask you to: Finally, take care that you create such conditions for disabled people, especially in the transport sector, so that we are truly equal citizens! Then we are no longer dependent on the few schilling that we get to cover our extra expenses, because then we could save ourselves a lot of money. Then I could also travel through Vienna with an annual network card, which I now need – from the price – for trips in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7182	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7203	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Lukesch first complained about the Freedom Party and said that we had also criticized the budget at times when the deficit was still 3.2% of the gross domestic product or below 3% of GDP. Mr Lukesch, one thing is clear: What we criticised at that time was the outlays from the ordinary budget, and the outlays from the ordinary budget have nevertheless settled from 1982 to 1994, i.e. they have increased from 50 billion schilling to 265 billion schilling. The burden of the operation of the funds from the extra-budgetary financing alone is 11 billion schilling per year, and this must be done from the ordinary budget. That was the criticism of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Lukesch! You can't deny these numbers, they're black on white. But, Minister of Climate and ladies and gentlemen of the Government: This load package you presented to us here – you also say "Sparpaket" – could have made you do without provoking new elections! Because what is in there is a pure emergency program – and nothing else. This is a cut-in – but without structural changes. For example: Staff costs in the public service 16 billion schilling. Savings of posts by non-retirement: 10 500, of which 7 000 are for postal purposes alone. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true!]] Only 7 000 are concerned with postal services. Of course! For family policy benefits, cut in with 8.2 billion schilling, in unemployment insurance with 5.3 billion schilling. But all this is only piecework, but not structural changes. Mostly where you intervene is on the revenue side. The Austrian People's Party is breaking word, because before the elections it said: There will be no additional levy, there will also be no solidarity levy. – However, what you have done here is an additional levy, which can no longer be claimed by special expenditure. Up to a certain income, there is a grinding system – and from an income of 500 000 S, virtually no special expenditure is accepted at all. But then come here and say: We need tax benefits for a private pension insurance in order to be self-sufficiency. It's not possible at all. The purchase of some insurance periods, which had not been regulated by the 40 000 S of special expenditure, is also now regulated – and this leads to an additional burden on Austrian households that want to buy back insurance periods. So it's just a piece of work. And the population is actually only confronted with a wave of stress. There will be an increase in the tax burden due to the energy tax which will burden households in a range of between 5 and 6 billion schilling. There is, however, no philosophy in this respect as to how it should continue. It is not a question of how the tax system could finally be unraveled. Many countries have proved that the tax system, i.e. a reduction in the tax rate, is a higher basis of assessment because it is more tax-free. As we all know, in Austria the area of the shadow economy has reached a scale of 160 billion schilling. Why do you do that? – Because the tax burden is too high, precisely because of the direct and indirect taxes and social taxes, so of course everyone tries to escape this tax. This is also humanly understandable when the load becomes so high. If you reduce the tax rate, everyone understands it, because certain taxes are to be paid to the State, because it provides infrastructure services. There would be no derogation from the tax and there would be a higher tax revenue or greater tax-honority. This should be shown to people: they want to pursue a more honest fiscal policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you make a policy that you say: We want to achieve an investment boost now. But the only thing in this situation is that you increase the investment allowance from 9 to 12 per cent for investment goods whose useful life is longer than eight years. That means that this is actually only true of building investment. With all other investments – for machines, for example, and technological progress at a time – no one in a company wants to have a machine with a useful life of more than eight years – this IFB is not going to be the case. You say you want an investment plan for export financing. But the exact opposite is made: The flat-rate adjustment for foreign claims in the order of 15 percent is deleted. In recent years, they have therefore repeatedly tried to eliminate tax advantages, especially in the case of investment. The I refund has been abolished, the investment premium has been abolished, the IFB has been reduced, the flat-rate adjustment has been abolished, the tax base has been increased, the tax rate has been increased from 30 to 34 percent, and so the Austrian economy and the Austrian entrepreneurs have taken a lot of competitiveness. This is the problem we have today: Thus, the economic location of Austria is not secured. Not the right measures are put in place, but only the load packs. Let's take the car as an example. The tax burden in 1994 was at least 43.3 billion schilling. This is made up of the mineral oil tax, from the motor insurance tax, from the NOVA, from the road use charge. In 1994, 43.3 billion schillings were the loads on drivers. In 1995 it was probably 50 billion schilling. It is therefore time and again to draw attention to the population groups that are not represented accordingly – whether it be the car drivers, whether they are the beneficiaries of medium-sized incomes, which form the support of the economy, it is the disabled and so on: All those who do not have lobbies are "raised down", all of them are taken for the future of all optimism. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply important that the government begins to save itself. And it is quite unacceptable to you that we should always have a discussion of privileges here. But, of course, it is necessary – unfortunately – to have such a discussion, because you haven't learned anything from the experiences of the past. We have had the National Bank's privilege discussion here about four years ago. At the time, we showed the example of the Director-General Kienzl, who retired, got a settlement, a holiday reduction of 11.8 million schilling. The next day, the same Director-General Kienzl, who had just retired, received a position as Vice-President, with 4 million Schilling. And here you say that we as the opposition party should stop here in the High House with the Pivilegian discussion! Make it all right! Finally, end with privileges in these protected areas! Then you will find an understanding of savings measures in the population. First start in your garden to excrete the weeds. It has already been said in the last savings package that there will be a reduction in personnel in the central offices. If we look at the developments in staff expenditure in 1994 and 1995, we can see that there has been no reduction again, but there is both an increase in the number of posts and an increase in salary. For this reason, we shall put forward the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7274	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7298	High house! I believe that only the mood that has been observed here since the beginning of the debate proves that the FPÖ has actually failed to raise this issue. Once again the debate could be held on whether there was any point in doing this meeting, especially because it is an old trick that you always have to save, or when there are savings packages – and this trick has been applied by opposition groups and parties in different countries for a long time – to get some examples out of the context. If one fails to take into account contexts, one believes that injustice happens in this or that way. I believe that under this scheme, even today, those statements of words have been observed, in which the question of social balance and social justice of the savings package has always been discussed. The answer given by Mr Klima has shown more than clearly that there is a system behind it, that all this has been carefully considered, that this is always to be discussed in a global context, including some individual examples of those affected. But that's not the subject I want to focus on. I would like to focus on the privilege discussion in the narrower sense and I must say that it has failed to make several definitions. One question is: What's a privilege at all? Who defines what is a privilege? This term has a self-employment. One always tries instinctively to determine or puncture this; it is made a political concept of fighting by saying: These are the rulers now, who may have ‘judiced’ it, and they are now distributing favors. You can start by using the term "privileg". But there you have to be very precise and have to try to present it in a real way, because otherwise you can understand it under all that. It could be said like this: Everyone who is politically active is basically a privileged person because he is not working, but because he is a lazy and politically active. This has already been the beginning of the definition, as Mr Haider said in his speech today, when he said: In principle, there is a lot of lazy people sitting in Parliament. An affinity, which only found one stage of increase decades ago, when it was said: Quasselbude. The National Socialists said: Quasselbude. They also came with accusations of corruption, they also said: They're loud fools. Of course you can discuss and say again and again until the last schilling: He's too much, the last schilling. – Haider will do it, he can go down to zero. It can be sausages to that; it all refers to everything else – and not inside – if it has to be. He'll take it. One of my previous speakers has said today that Haider as a clubman is not just undernourished. I am not saying anything about the payment of the Clubmen here in principle, but it is true that Haider should not hide it. – For example, that would be an aspect. They repeatedly call single black sheep, which must stand as examples of the decay of the whole system. – That too is wrong. You can draw up individual examples, you can say: There's been a self-employment here. And I admit that so many criticisms, which have also come from opposition speakers today, are justified. I even go as far as I can – may the Lord forgive me! – that I say: [[The speaker looks to the ceiling]] There is also some criticism of Jörg Haider, which is quite justified. I do not want to deny that at all, but that does not justify a long time ago, that is why I say that the whole system is depraved. Haider, too, should know that this political system is based on the fact that it works the best if a few have as few tasks and functions as possible. That was the basic understanding of the system – where people used to be paid much less and more modestly and then developed in this way. Now the trend is going in the opposite direction. That's it. So we have to hold the system debate that Haider wants anyway, because he wants to have another political system anyway. This can be seen from his discussion of the activities of officials, the self-understanding of the state, his self-understanding of the state, your self-understanding of the state – I do not know if you are always going with the congruent. Every now and then I see this: If you look anxiously, he's just risking an independent thought, but you can't read it anyway. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] So anyway, it would be interesting to find out what you think about this. It should be tried – without questioning the system as a whole – to make changes here. The mandate of the General Council was one of the examples. Mr Klima has made this an example of the fact that there should now be changes in the National Bank. – However, if you do not fit into the concept, you will not be brought into the discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl]] I come to you now, for the following reason: Your club pharmacy must be empty, because I think you need kilo-wise antidepressants – what I understand. If you have to work in the FPÖ or in the FPÖ club, I understand that you need it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If you really want to keep up with the baseline – and that's the baseline – then it's a violation of your self-esteem. You should actually say: We're not worth anything. This is actually your basic understanding – here in the statements of Jörg Haider. Before you come to the plenary room and take the privilege debate, you should actually say: We're the last one, we're not worth anything, we're so ugly! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Then your club secretary goes through the ranks again, you all open your mouth – and he skins you two antidepressants. Then we'll go back. Then come down here to the plenary room and sing euphorically again. This is the wrong euphoria because it's a chemical euphoria. But it's some euphoria. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] After the last election you need a chemical euphoria anyway, because the election result for you was not such that it can be a real euphoria. So come on. They come here and say: We're the last! My position is that I say: I don't want to stop you. Keep saying that. But at last leave us alone, let's finally do our work here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I want to say with it: They do not discuss the basic nature of what a politician has to do – Mr Schwemlein has tried to describe it; others, in part, too – which is what one really has to do. Obviously you don't have much to do either. It is probably related to your authoritarian club structures that you are not allowed to do anything either. Then I understand that you are overpaid, if you just have to hook there, do so and once in a while. [[the speaker lifts and puts his hands alternately]] Then I understand. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But don't be angry with me. Don't generalize that! Projection You don't get the wrong situation in your club back on all of us! We work differently. We obviously work more. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: But bad!]] We also work free, independent. We don't have to look so anxiously when we formulate our own thoughts. We're better. We don't need antidepressants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And at all: After the last election, we'll be better anyway. Mr Klima has also been right with another point today: He would be more credible – we are open hearts; it is not so that we say: Everything he says, the blue beelzebub, is wrong!; let's not say; we're really making an appeal: If there is more credibility, we can better get into the discussion! – if he would also find critical words about things that take place in his own realm of power. So today, Haider spoke of Alexander Götz – your honorary husband anyway – about the fact that he is a political mummy. It's probably a condition in your statutes: If you become an honorary man, you must first become a political mummy. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] But that's your problem and not mine. It is not only about Götz, but also about the fact that his son, for example, has a job at the Graz Fair, which the "old" has given him, and the daughter works in a bank where the father sits in the Supervisory Board. – These are not mummys, they are still too young for being mumified. My question is – rather put your hand down; that can be dangerous, the camera is running – so my question is: [[Abg. Dolinschek shows by hand in the ranks of the SPÖ]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] Is that mummy, too? Don't you mind? Can you say something critical? There's still five freemen coming after me anyway. Tell me something critical! Come on. You're out and you're saying, Soury, or something. In any case: I would very much like an answer to that. ==References====External links== February: A certain councillor Karl Schnell – you have guessed that he is yours, a liberal councillor – tells us whether he will now elect this new head of state to be proposed by the ÖVP: We will only choose it if, in the energy sector – that is the "underpaid" area – the banks, art and culture have a democratization of personnel policy. – So I literally get the water in my mouth. What is democratization in personnel policy? Can you do this for us? That's why I'm going through my imagination. I could now talk about the 48-hour Pact of the Carinthian FPÖ here. We have an example of what democratisation is for you in human resources policy, where everything has been made up and taken up until the last state of sausages. Be so nice: Come out and explain to us what a "democracy in personnel policy!" It's! Today I stand there – unfortunately, there is too little tension in this whole debate – and I see Mr Lukas sitting up there. I don't play now "Hold Luke!"I'll tell you that, but I have to say: The Lord Luke has nerves! This one comes to the privilege debate here in the House, this Lukas, he, which from November 1998 on brings 1.5 million Schilling pension per year plus 1.1 million Schilling as a parliamentarian, who spiritled through the area with 2.6 million schilling? He's got the nerves and he's sitting up there. He fell asleep partly because it obviously bore him. This Luke is sitting up there! Your parliamentarian, whom you recently captured! Is there no envy with you? You should actually be a little presumptuous, which people come to your candidate list. So please explain this to us! Is it not worth the fact that if we are already having this privilege discussion here, you will work it up a little? There's something else I've got, that's not what Jörg Haider did. He made some funny call, but he didn't bring it here at all, this story about the ebner. The "Small Newspaper" reads: Ebner has not complied with his reporting obligation and has not announced that he has become a countryman. That's why his references were not shortened and he continued to refer – and so on. It's about half a million schilling. Ebner should be rebaptized: My name is Hase, I don't know anything! This is the baseline that Mr Ebner has, and that is the baseline you have. They're sitting there silently. Get out! What do you say to the Ebner? Your chief isn't here anyway, now you could be a little ticker! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Come out! Come here! Sage You do! What about the Ebner? They say nothing – as expected – of course! Now I come to the conclusion, because that is, so to speak, my body theme, which I really like to deal with. [[Call: He's not there.]] He switched on the speaker! He's sitting in his room and listening. I bet! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] He only pretends he doesn't listen; he doesn't stop it. That's why I have to send you good greetings through the aether. He's sitting there, and he's probably already got something in his hand to write. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He will be delighted!]] Haider is for privilege reduction, he says all the time, and he always pushes in the direction of politics. I'd go another way: Why does Jörg Haider make no proposal to abolish tax loopholes and tax privileges that affect him himself, which he himself benefits from? In Section 18 of the Income Tax Act, there is this institution of out-of-company pension. I'm just saying, "I'm not going to make any sense." This is his institution with which he manages these wonderful tax declarations, where at the end of the day almost nothing can be paid. - But the gag is still coming. – Out-of-company pension, where is necessarily below: Such pension payments are immediately and fully deductible from the payer as special expenditure. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's tax privilege! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] There he can lull hundreds of thousands of schilling, hundreds of thousands of schilling, which should actually be available to the Republic. He's gracious today. He doesn't seem as angry as many people think. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Hundreds of thousands of schillings – funny, funny, funny – that he can get in there where he says: I am a sincere fighter against the privileges! This is about half a million – I say now, half a million, he could put the tax bill on the table once. He's all nervous anyway. He's sitting in his room, drumming his fingers on the desk. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as with the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I'm convinced. You also know that is the case. But you could come out now; You could defend Haider. You could say: It's right. We have this special meeting today, because we want to confirm it: Haider should continue to have this tax privilege! He's supposed to continue to strike hundreds of thousands of schilling! A special sluggish head has found out, a truly clever model, because one probably has to change the law so that it finally pays something. To change the law, he could also demand that if he truly opposes privileges! – But he's not! He's a sandblower – and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7479	I call Mr Krüger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7500	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you say, Mr. Cap, Haider is a sandblower, then I actually only have a receipt for you: You're a gakler! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have shown here impressively – once again impressively – that you are not at all able to enter into an objective discussion. They can only get serious things into the ridiculous and try to get over the subject in this way. Mr Cap, do not worry: They are talking about the fact that we do not think independently. To this end, I must say: Obviously, they speak from their own experience. You have come to this House with preferential votes, equipped with a vote of your young partygoers. When you asked Mr Kery these three questions at the time, you were still brave, and you showed courage. But hardly was Mr Cap here in the House, he became a buck, adapted, adapted to a mainstream! That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now, at least the newspapers promise it, he finds himself again because he was replaced as SP-Federal Managing Director. Now, when he thinks of his roots again, he goes back to the achievement of preferred voices and is again – at least after his presentation – "completely old". Mr Cap! It is a question of different access to the solution of a problem. One is dealing with one thing with a certain seriousness and with a constitutional will to change, the other is trying – and that's your style – to put everything in a ridiculous way. But I am really grateful for that – because you prove your Catholic childhood home – if you say you have to give even the Jörg Haider right, and if you say the "Lord" may forgive you – that is really a contribution to involuntary comics if you even have to ask the dear God for forgiveness just because you give the Jörg Haider once right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler von der ÖVP very grateful for addressing the privilege situation in Upper Austria here. I say it quite openly: I am glad to come from a country group, namely the Upper Austrian Freeman, who made a significant contribution to the reduction of privileges. How was the Upper Austrian national group of the Freemans laughed at when it demanded the abolition of the politician's pension for countrymen! How has it been reacted here! – The head of state said: You can decide that quietly. – It was not taken seriously. The fact is, Mr Mühlbachler, that in Upper Austria – thanks to the pioneering role of the liberals – there is no longer a pension for new members of the country, but also for those who are now active in the country. And that, I believe, is something very important! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Upper Austria is the only federal state in Austria. I would like this idea to continue from Upper Austria: to Vienna, to the covenant and to see similar decisions taken there as those in Upper Austria. Another comment by Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. I say it quite openly: When I took note today of the tragic communication that Mr Leitner had passed away, my first reaction was that I said to my colleague colleagues sitting next to me: Belief in a group that is so noble with a Member like Mr Leitner, in which God unfortunately already called for death at the constituent meeting, as the President said. – Hat off, I thought. That is why I am disappointed, Mr Mühlbachler, that you have been addressing the tragic fate of an above Austrian liberal who, 38 years old, has suffered two heavy rear wall infarctions that would almost have died in the hospital, who has been clinically dead several times and who has struggled again to get away with life at all – of course, he is severely affected by such a serious disease. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is exactly what Mr Stöger from Freistadt has said, Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler, addressed. It is true that he has not renounced his pension in this particular situation – as someone who has looked to death in the face of it – but not for his own sake, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, but because he is obliged to care for four children. He was then so decent and is – I don't know if it's at all right if I say here that he wanted to show a favor to the party – without anyone pushing him, because his situation is a very special one, leaving the party. I really find it most regrettable to misuse the tragic human fate of a professional colleague here to accuse us of an unfair line in the question of privilege. Ladies and gentlemen! I can also say, however, that in Upper Austria we are a political group which has left out all the vans. In Upper Austria, you will no longer find a city councillor in a city of statute that runs around with the van. Third President of the Landestag Bodingbauer, who was the first politician to abandon the service vehicle at the time, and also our State Councillor Achatz did not use his service vehicle. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason too, MEPs are bringing Dr. President. — The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In all the differences in the argument of the various parties, I believe that there is a slightest common denominator in all the contributions to the debate, and that the smallest common denominator exists in the basic consensus that unemployment income is to be eliminated. Since it is always said that special meetings represent an activism of the great opposition party in Austria, it is also here, without mentioning the cases of Mr Poigenfürst and their completion, HTM and so on, to make it clear once again that this special meeting has also brought the success, ladies and gentlemen, that at least a government party, namely the Austrian People's Party, has tabled a motion for a resolution on the reduction of privileges. I say it quite openly: In my opinion, this motion for a resolution is still somewhat vague in content, but I believe that it is important that all the shackles and confessions of all political groups in this House should be filled with life. That is why we cordially invite you not only to read and vote positively on the other motions for resolutions, but also to accept a motion for a resolution aimed at eliminating unjustified privileges among politicians. I would like to make this motion for a resolution as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the truest sense of the word, you can really confess color here, whether the reduction of privileges is actually worth your while or whether it remains only with the usual lip confessions of the past years. A short while ago, on the question of the interpretation of the Income Tax Act, which Mr Cap referred to. Yes, that would still be missing, Mr Cap: Now you want to change the saying practice for the extradition of a Member, namely Mr Haider, here in the House. There is already a kind of "Lex Haider", and it would certainly fit your mind to make another "Lex Haider" in the tax sense, to go so far here and take Jörg Haider to the occasion to change the Income Tax Act, which applies equally to all. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: The Haider isn't here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Poor Haider!]] That would really be a good match for your general policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very grateful to Mr Lukesch of the Austrian People's Party for finally expressing that the so-called savings package, as you have referred to it, does not deserve this word. You can, even if you want to dispute it now, certainly read in the Minutes that Mr. Lukesch – just as we have been free – spoke of a tax package. And that's it! This is a tax package, and I do not think it was a joyous failure, but simply the realization that on the revenue side there is indeed much more being done in terms of tax increases, because it is easier for the Minister of Finance to bring about a revenue-side improvement in the budget situation at the expense of the diligent population. In fact, the tax package has already tipped the balance on the part of the expenditure side in favour of revenue, i.e. tax increases are intended to at least partially relieve the budget. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, very briefly on the statements made by the Minister for Finance. Mr Finanzminister, as you question the question of young entrepreneurs here, or say so, in someone who started his business in 1989, you can no longer talk about a young business initiative and a start-up phase: As the former Chief Financial Officer, you know very well that in a company there is a planning, a financial planning, and you also know very well that most of the divisions provide for the financial planning of newly founded companies in the form of losses written in the first years, a balanced result in the following years, and only then the profit zone. As you know, Mr Finanzminister, there are a number of young entrepreneurs who set up their business in 1989, and have also contributed their losses to financial planning in confidence in tax policy. In the following years, they came out of the loss zone – and now they are facing a constitutional regime so that they will not succeed in their losses in 1989/90. Mr Finanzminister! This is not only a change in the sense of promoting young entrepreneurs, but it is highly unconstitutional, and I very much regret that you have the coldness to say here: [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is no problem at all, we will simply demonstrate the constitutional correctness with a two-thirds majority. You should also be aware that the Constitution is slowly eroded.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7671	The two motions for resolutions are properly put in place, as well as supporting and negotiating. Mr Wabl has reported an actual correction. – The Rules of Procedure are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7696	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mühlbachler! You have claimed here that you just write to the Council of State Schools and you do not give up his cover, and that's all right. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's ten years ago!]] At the time, in 1986, Mr Mühlbachler, I asked for a reduction in my salary to zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] Yes, I know the Council of State Schools has, because he knows exactly what the laws look like, needs two years for these two sides to tell me: "An application for a reduction of your salary to zero Schilling" – I have requested – "is not possible in the absence of a bill of law." [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right!]] Now I already know that you can do it now and...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7755	Mr Wabl! This is an actual correction. If you wish to comply with the Rules of Procedure, please do so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7770	I just corrected. He claimed that this could be done simply by writing it in a letter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] But go, Member of Parliament. Secondly, he says he has a clean solution with his salary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have his salary note here, and after that the Austrian state pays for Mr Mühlbachler, although he does not work in his office, 60 000 S annually so that he gets a decent pension. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not a correction!]] If this is not a privilege and if this is a clean solution, I wish Mr Mühlbachler a clean weekend.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7816	Mr Mühlbachler referred to a personal reply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7837	Mr President. I feel very affected by Mr Wabl's actual correction. Mr Wabl is obviously not in a position to interpret the components of the salary as they are interpreted. [[Abg. Wabl: 60 000 S Pension and nothing to work!]] [[Call the SPÖ: You too, Wabl!]] Mr Wabl! The State applies for me: Pension contributions, health insurance contributions, social security contributions. These are the contributions, Mr Wabl. But you have also seen that, unlike your salary bill, there is a payment amount of zero on me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7883	Mr Rosenstingl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e7905	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Cap, if you were to copy a page of the Income Tax Act next time, I would advise you that before you take it into your hands and try to explain something tax-law, see if you might find someone else hidden in your group who knows a bit about tax law. You should know that these pensions are admittedly deductible from the payer, but are taxable on the payer. If we are already talking about something, we could theoretically discuss whether we both abolish the tax obligation on the payer and the deposit at the payer, but one does not work, and even you should understand this with your perhaps not so well-founded tax knowledge: You can't tell him who gets something to tax it, but he who pays it can't stop it. It's a little too easy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has clearly shown that this tax package is heavily burdening the middle class. Mr Federal Minister, it is not the case that it is socially balanced. It is socially totally unbalanced, it burdenes most the mediocre employees, the mediocre workers or the small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. those people who maintain our state. You, Mr Federal Minister, do not want to renovate at the expense of the taxpayers, at the expense of the citizens, the budgetary situation caused by your lack of economic policy. There are no structural reforms at all, you have not told us where you really want to save without you carrying out any burdens or tax increases or reducing social benefits. There is no hospital reform, there is still no administrative reform, but there is no privilege reduction either. It is completely incomprehensible that you want to take away something from pensioners on the one hand – and I am surprised that the social politician Feurstein, who has always been so promised, really dares to come here and defend everything and say that it is all right here in this state that privileges are not to be reduced – that we are therefore faced with the situation that pensioners should be taken away in the future by those people who have worked for a lifetime that really deserved their pension, but you, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, the government coalition is not prepared to reform political pensions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is equally incomprehensible, however, if the Social Democrats are now the 13th and 14th in particular. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the common market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. They only want to clean up at the expense of the workers. They have really been far away from the workers. They are certainly not employees' representatives. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: I am also affected!]] Mr President, you are the only one who still represents you here in this House. They represent your privileges, your relations, your affairs, but certainly not that of the employee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, if you would lend me your ear for a moment! It would be interesting to break down a few explanations from you on the urgent question. You have replied very polemically, but unfortunately your answers were very inaccurate. As far as the loss talks are concerned, Mr Böhacker has already shown you what fiscal nonsense this is and what is happening there – apart from the fact that, of course, these projects in the losses are of course again causing a deterioration in the competitive situation vis-à-vis the EU's foreign country, causing a deterioration in the capital situation, although you have said again and again just a few weeks ago, even here in the house: In order to save jobs in order to create jobs, we must strengthen the capital situation of entrepreneurs. – With this load package you do exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I would really be pleased if you would listen to me now, because your statements on the minimum corporate tax and your reasoning that you are preventing this abuse is really the biggest nonsense you can ever say about tax laws. They should note that a law has been created here in this House, namely the Accounting Act, which prevents abuse; which does not mean that there may not be black sheep there and there, but these are individual and not the majority. This accounting law guarantees that annual accounts are drawn up, which are also correct, and that, if there is no profit for GesmbHs in these financial statements, it is a nonsense that 50 000 S minimum corporation tax is to be paid for this because you are taxing an income that is not at all available. It is certainly unique in Europe, perhaps even once throughout the world, that incomes are taxed which are not at all available. But you don't prevent any abuse at all. If someone wants to abuse it, he will do it – with or without a minimum corporate tax. But you are punishing those businessmen who honestly balance, those businessmen who work honestly when they have no profit, who are just responsible for a 50 000 s tax burden, and they still have to pay the tax. Their statements on the Fiscal truck, on the other hand, Mr. Federal Minister, are of naïve nature. You said you were changing the "golf" to the Fiscal truck. I am firmly convinced that this is not happening. Faith You really believe that one who does not need it has in the past converted a "golf" or any other car, gave away the seats in the back and then drove around with a car with two seats, just for his private pleasure, though he did not need it? That's really naïve, that's not real practice. This should also be expressed here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it is so - I am right with you - that the Fiscal truck was a stupid solution. In this respect, there is only one fair solution: For those cars that are actually in need of operation – there are also tough standards – which should be used more than 50 percent in the company – the other part will then be taken as a private withdrawal, as an addition or as a tax charge – to reintroduce the pre-tax deduction, because you have completely overlooked, with great zeal, the preparation of the tax package, that we are with the EU and that our neighbouring country and, in some cases, the most powerful competitor, namely Germany, has the pre-tax deduction. And what are you doing now? – You are harming the economy, for example, because of a rather unsuccessful special provision, which you are now abolishing for trade representatives. I want to see a trade representative practice his profession if he doesn't have a car. The sales representative needs the car, he has to work hard, and you punish him by saying that he may not fully write off his assets or get the advance tax back. Federal Minister! The people concerned do not understand that they are being scrapped by you, but they want to continue to maintain the protected areas. Where are the measures at the National Bank? Where are the measures in the electricity sector? And where are the measures in the chamber? - Because the Minister of Economic Affairs is just there: Why Care As the minister responsible for this, you're not in charge of the chamber area? Of course, they are only responsible for the Chamber of Commerce, but there, too, organisational reforms are necessary, and there, too, reforms are necessary for staff. It is also necessary to force the Chambers to make a contribution to achieving a better economic situation so that businesses can pay more taxes again, because they make more profits. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it also shows how chaotic you have tied up the load package and how little the Federal Minister takes the whole seriously or poses the problems if you, Mr. Federal Minister, referred to an interlocutory call from me, the entrepreneurs are paying income or corporate tax for 1996 anyway only in 1998. Mr Federal Minister, you may have overlooked the fact that there are tax prepayments; tax prepayments which you have continuously increased in recent years, regardless of whether the entrepreneurs have earned more or not, and which you increase again. It is therefore simply unfair that the entrepreneurs, as you have claimed here, pay income tax and corporate tax for 1996 only in 1998. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He doesn't know!]] I am not surprised, however, that the Minister of Finance is simply saying that when I look at what the "great" financial expert and chairman of the Financial Committee is giving him. Professor Novotny said some time ago that the 12 billion schillings, which were less taxed on imports, had benefited importers, but these importers had not passed on this import turnover tax to consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! This is really empty nonsense, and one might think that Professor Novotny might have said this in Villach on the occasion of the Fasching session, but unfortunately our chairman of the Financial Committee here in this House has meant this seriously. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's huge!]] Mr Novotny has not yet understood that the import turnover tax is not a basis for calculation because it has always been refunded because it could be deducted. In this regard, I can only join a technical journal in the tax field, namely the magazine "Per balance" of the Austrian Society of Economic Trustees, which also states this statement by Professor Novotny and then in the final sentence: "This comment by the chairman of the Parliamentary Financial Committee probably does not require any further comment in his absurdity." – It is only unfortunate that we have someone as chairman of the Financial Committee who gives such absurd things to himself in the field of tax policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, this debate has also shown that it is necessary to help the poorest people in this country. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to say the following: These federal government, these government parties, are not willing to eliminate privileges. The load package is economically and locally hostile and therefore workplace destructive. It is a violation of the principle of trust and trust, it is partly unconstitutional to unconstitutional, it is an precursor to future budgets and thus a burden of future generations, it is socially not balanced and is anti-family, disabled and female. Ladies and gentlemen! You are not willing to reduce privileges – but we will guide you there. We liberals will remain on this issue, and we are sure that we will also come to a good end.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8067	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and have been supported accordingly and are therefore pending negotiations. I also declare that the motion for a resolution concerning the law on employment and civil servants' rights of Members Peter, Frischenschlager, Moser, partners and partners has been withdrawn. Finally, I call Mrs Haidlmayr for an order, because she has made two clear statements to Mr Feurstein. Mr Haigermoser is now on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8103	A few brief remarks. High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for a working session at the government bank and, of course, I am not in a position to include the constructive proposals made by Mr Rosenstingl, despite the fact that the Federal Minister for Finance, his sign, meant that the opposition must also be included in a restructuring package. Mr. Fast-Bundesminister for Finance Ditz, who you said before the election that you would only belong to this new Federal Government as a Minister of Finance or not at all – this dangerous threat, or whatever it was, he may be with himself – I am curious about how history then comes to a bad end. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is this a dangerous threat or a promise?]] But I think that also fits in with the morals of this socialist coalition government, how to deal with the citizen before the election and how to keep it after the election. The replies of the Federal Minister for Finance – that is, not Ditz, but climate – have, in particular, also said a few things about the role of the Austrian People's Party, and there was quite interesting what climate meant. Among other things, he said that there would be as part of an employment offensive state apprentice workshops. Where are the gentlemen stupid, Puttinger, Madethaner? They obviously did not hear this today, otherwise they would have had to cry out whether this socialist path in apprenticeship training, which climate here threatened. He also said in the same breath that it was agreed with the coalition partner and with the social partners – is equal to the Chamber of Commerce. That means that the Austrian People's Party has fallen once again. In the fall, the ÖVP Trainee has no longer reached the point. But if one has said before the election that 25 years of socialism are enough, it surprises me why the ÖVP has given the consent of such socialist preparation once again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why it is perhaps also very interesting, Mr Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Mr. Federal Minister for Finance – if it is appropriate to interrupt Mr. Subsidiary's redundancie, who was able to get a cable car for schilling in Carinthia – to point out that the insolvency dispute persists in its entirety. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Do you have any further suggestion, Mr. Haigermoser?]] Please, my colleague, no dangerous threat! No violence in this Parliament, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Surely not to you! You're not worth it!]] It's all right! I believe that the arrogance of your words is a pate. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You can only be arrogant to you, that is the only language you understand!]] And as arrogant as you are, you will still fall in front of the voters, because the voter's vote in Carinthia was a clear one for you, in the negative, Mr. Subsidyskaiser Hazelsteiner! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The insolvency thus remains unabated so far, Minister of Finance. This has not been said by any less than Klaus Hirzenberger, and it is, I think, also very interesting what this specialist, the head of the KSV, said on 25 May. In 1996 you also announced that you had to say a wave of start-ups. It has also meant that a wave of foundation, in addition to holding back the insolvency issues, will also depend, among other things, on maximum flexibility without any further burden on the economy, a reduction in the additional wage costs and a strengthening of the equity base. Federal Minister for Finance! All this you do not do with your load package, you do the opposite, and therefore your request response was more than poor. Although they have been long-lasting about answering the questions, they have not listened to the opinion of the experts and, as has been said, have rewritten the socialist path. That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, since you, Mr Federal Minister, also found the approval of the social partners to be so great, it is interesting to question the role of the Federal Chamber of Commerce again briefly. In the approval of this tax package, the dual nature of the Economic Union, particularly for the economy, will once again be apparent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Ditz.]] It will be evident once again, Mr Ditz, because, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you, as a supervisor of the Chamber of Commerce, would have to know that the burden is very similar to that of a wave of founding. The new head of the Young Economy has said that we are missing 140 000 companies. How do you plan to set up these 140 000 companies if you increase the additional wage costs with your tax package in the same breath and the equity base will be much lower? The matter concerning the trade representative has already been raised by Mr Rosenstingl, Mr Böhacker. And there too, ladies and gentlemen, the dual nature of the Economic Union, first of all the former Secretary of State, Fekter, will be evident. She too, Mrs Fekter, has said several times that it is simply no longer possible for stress to stand in the house and, on the other hand, it is often said that businesses must be founded. In the same breath, this Mr. Maderthaner falls over, Mr. Stummful falls down. While publishing the "must for start-up" it says that instead of further scourgings and avalanches, expenditure-side reorganisation of the state budget is to be carried out. In February of this year, Mr Stummvoll called for this, but without asking the legitimate entrepreneurship representatives, one has agreed to this tax package. It will therefore be interesting whether the economic chambermen, ladies and gentlemen, will agree to the request of the Vice-Presidents of the European Free Trade Association, whether they will have their approval in the Chamber of Commerce, in the Chamber of Entrepreneurship, or whether they will go over it with their own graces and say: That's none of our business, I, Madethaner, I, stupid, we agree with your own person. This means, in conclusion and in summary, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not create 80 000 jobs with your tax package, but that you will even destroy jobs. And this prophecy will – unfortunately God, I believe from a liberal point of view – take place earlier than ever, Minister of the State. It will take place because your actions are purely socialism, because the leaders are being punished because the socialist path – 25 years, Mr Molterer, you have said – is enough – is being continued because the Swedish path is being pursued, the Swedish path that led the country of Sweden into the fiscal abyss. Therefore, your program will fail with ÖVP residue aid. It would have been better if you had adhered to the free movement package, then Austria would certainly have gone a little further.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8211	Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8232	Dear... [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr Colleague! Not even the 25 years have voted! There are 26!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A serious mistake!]] Is that what I am talking about, Mr Arbitrator? – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, if you have believed that you can ask us liberals to go out here now in a row and defend our clubman, I can tell you from my side the following: The level of your kind of parliamentary debate is not mine, and therefore I would rather deal with the statements made by the Federal Minister for Climate. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right! That's true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you defending him or not?]] No, why? I don't think that's necessary. Your comments have self-qualified, Mr Cap! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: So you don't defend him! That's a bold statement!]] Mr. Federal Minister Klima has produced himself here today with an admittedly sympathetic look – yes! – and with a non-chalant kind has answered the request addressed to him, but in a way that I must say: [[Oh and Ah rupee in plenary.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is a compliment!]] [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: He's overweight!]] They have remained guilty to us for an objective answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And another one, and I don't know if you're taking this as a compliment... [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: He has admitted that he is overweight.]] This is now again on another sheet, which does not necessarily destroy the other. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh! Oh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Did I get that right now?]] Mr Federal Minister, if I had not known before, why You are considered to be the hope of the future in the SPÖ despite the hard-to-measurable successes in your various types of activities, then, I must say, today, with the way you answered our urgent request, you have given me your confirmation for my assumptions. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Ventilate a tip of the mystery!]] I do not necessarily have to say everything, but one can only point out certain things. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have said that it is the different kind of level of parliamentary debate between Mr Cap and me. [[Abg. Edler: Oh, that's it!]] If you have meant that you may not be the right address for our urgent request, then you can certainly discuss it, because it was, of course, the Federal Chancellor who made a lot of promises before this election, which ultimately won the elections with these promises, and where, after the savings package – or as always you want to call it – you have to ask yourself what has actually become of these promises. I've got a section from the "Tyrol Newspaper" here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You will not have chosen him anyway!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can be sure, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then you don't have to demand these promises either!]] ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website There has been an entire page in the "Tyrol daily", and a caller from Schwaz, for example, has reported and asked what the Federal Chancellor wants to do about whether he really wants to stop the care allowance when the nurses have to go to the hospital. They are mostly family members who have given up their work, and they wanted to know what to do then. At that time, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was still there. December, said: In the event of a short-term stay, a cancellation of the care allowance certainly does not make sense. We are talking about reasonable deadlines that we must agree on. – These reasonable deadlines have apparently become two days. The disabled and their families certainly do not agree with this. The Federal Chancellor has also promised personal protection to other sections of the population, and I can only say that he has not kept it. He has promised that he will bring the pension systems together, that there will be a change there. – Today, in the answer to our question 11, Federal Minister Klima has said that there are already considerations – you hear and marvel! – to the general reorganisation. But it goes even further – everything in an interview. The Federal Chancellor also wanted to save ministries. He promised. Perhaps it's still coming, so far nothing's fixed. He has also promised that he will in all cases reject the ideas of other parties who want to reintroduce the Red Pen with the pensioners. – literally! The Lord Federal Chancellor live! Well, I looked at the newspapers yesterday and I have to say, that's not right now. It will, of course, put on the red pen at 9 000 p.m. And the very best thing for me was how the Federal Chancellor defended his million removal from the Landesbank, which he had already received after three years of activity. He said that, of course, this is only a compensation for the loss of income he suffered as a result of his vocation as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Well, I can imagine that there will be very little understanding of this in the constituencies that have been elected by the Social Democrats when it comes to such loss of income. And exactly these people, you chose because of your promises. I would prefer it with Dr. Herrmann, the president of the Catholic Family Association of Austria, who has now said literally, in mid-February: "Politics make promises to calm down and damn people, but not to redeem them." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I think this is an approach that we really need to think about in the Austrian state. The Federal Chancellor has also promised us that he will never allow it to be saved at the expense of women, pensioners and the youth of our country, and that he will not leave women alone with their needs and problems. In the last few days, however, we have had to learn exactly the opposite through the way this savings package is supposed to look like. All the promises made by the Federal Chancellor in an interview have been broken by this load package, and one is quite one-sided, deep in rights and treaties – although one does not want to do so on the other –: in the economy, in the families, where the generation agreement, through the way in which the reorganisation in the family sector is conducted, is at risk that one cannot disappear. It is therefore not necessary to be surprised if, in the future, the social peace in Austria is really at risk. Federal Minister of Climate! I am already aware that this path you intend to take with this load package is only possible because you take a lot away, especially where the lobbys of those concerned are most vulnerable: the families, the disabled, the women, the youth and so on. All the reforms announced – where did they stay? Where's the health reform? – We have heard statements of intent today. Where is the approximation of pension systems? – Thoughts are made about it! Where does a sustainable change in political privileges really take place? There will be a Commission. And nothing can be heard of a rehabilitation of the family compensation fund, which has been discussed for years and which has been promised for years. We have simply managed to achieve the measures that were most likely to serve as a quick source of money. I don't see a social balance in this. She's not here. I think it is a bit with Mrs Inge Baldinger of the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', which said the following – I refer to you again, Minister of State: "They are among the hens, one of the hens. Have laid egg after egg", but no golden, of course. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that is why I think you are the right address for this urgent question, because the women were really not involved in the negotiations, and this is the result of this load package. But now, on the privileges in the economy or in the economy as a whole, we say so – yes, you are almost right, Mr. Schieder – because apart from the National Bank, there is still a large protected area: the electricity industry. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not elegant, the comparison!]] The maladministrations there are already in the XVIII. The Court of Auditors' legislative period has been challenged. These abuses concern the Austrian nuclear power plants, where two persons have total charges of 5.6 million Schilling, the Ennskraftwerke, where there have been voluntary discharges in millions, Steiermärkische Elektrieks AG: three board members, 7 million Schilling annually, the Tauernkraftwerke: two members with 5.7 million Schilling annually. In this respect, we have not heard at all that one would be willing to take action here. There are not even statements of intent. No, you're going to introduce an energy tax! One is not prepared to take consolidation measures in this protected area, to put in place real savings measures, and perhaps to convert them to electricity prices, perhaps to abandon an increase in electricity prices. Of course, this, in turn, affects the families, also the economy, but the families double and triple. And if Mr. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel of the ÖVP has promised us "spare instead of tax", that's not true either, please. It has become apparent that there will be a new tax – the energy tax – and there will be an increase in the standard consumption tax, tobacco tax and so on. . I now recall once again the statement of the President of the Catholic Family Association that the promises of the Austrian politicians seem only to be there to calm down the population and to declare it stupid. I therefore think it is quite right – and not only I, but also the people, I believe, is right – that, in connection with this load package, which concerns the whole population, one must also address the real political privileges; first of all, from a certain role model that politicians should have, but also, of course, from a savings point of view, it should be of interest to the Minister of Finance to the effect that there is still an area in which one can really save. I believe that a genuine package of savings for politicians and for parties will ultimately not go by. It is really not to be seen that we politicians in our relations have prejudices like officials – we already have the fourth zero son round here, but in others There are no areas – we have finishes like employees, and we have deposits such as companies. The fact that something has to be wrong in the system is the only result of this list. And that there are still references to unemployed incomes and multiple pensions from them, that cannot be in the sense of the inventor or the citizen – in the sense of the inventor perhaps already. We liberals have long put our ideas on the table, but so far only half-hearted promises and approaches have been made by the government parties – see Mr. Feurstein today. I really do not understand that the political parties will continue to receive more than half a billion per year from the state register alone, and the national parties will then receive more than a whole billion additional from the countries. There is also a saving, a slimming cure is recommended. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Cap has said that politicians are doing a job and that this service is also to be paid. As I agree with him, but only from the fact that this tax package meets the Austrian population in most areas, it cannot be so deep that, in the future, the management days of the Austrian company – these are the politicians, especially the politicians responsible for the bankruptcy of the state of Austria – will not be asked to register at least percentage as well as "Otto Normal Citizens" in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8507	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8529	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the points of savings package and privilege reduction dealt with at today's special meeting of the National Council have shown that this special session was necessary. Some Members have spoken before me, who even had to justify themselves because of their double relations, because of their professional activity, whether they do something or not. I will probably be the only professional worker here as a Member, working for this, and I can only tell you the following: I feel directly obliged to take the floor here today to document that the people certainly do not want these privileges to exist in this way. The responsible government and the large political groups here do not have the courage to end these privileges, which the debate has been under way for many years, even decades. There is a call for you to take this seriously and not just to make lip confessions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I speak today about this so-called savings package, then, I believe, I am certainly entitled to do so. What is this so-called savings package? – It is a purely scrapping action that also affects small and medium-sized incomes. I can make a few points on this point. However, I would just like to deal with four points: first of all, I would like to mention that the abolition of the general amount of sales, the amount of amortization – I have done so anyway; thank you, honourable Member, for the introduction of a grinding system at 200 000 s. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Deposition amount!]] This brings 6 billion schilling to the state, but, as I believe, it is a burden on small and very small incomes, and that is certainly not social. I come to my second point, according to which special expenditure will also be deleted by means of a grinding system. This also brings 6 billion schilling to the state. The third point: 13th and 14th. Monthly salary. This is usually a financial reserve for families in the way that one can either buy something in addition or compensate for an overdrafted account. That also brings 6 billion schilling to the state. The fourth point, which brings 8 billion schilling to the state, is the famous energy tax. And this energy tax, ladies and gentlemen, really hits everyone – every household and everyone who works in working life. This energy tax, which is paid to 75 percent of households and to 25 percent of companies, is a tax that will stop only the budget holes but will not be available for a reform because other election promises have also been broken. These four points, which I have now mentioned, are unacceptable to the population, are rejected, because the small and medium-sized income of 26 billion schilling is certainly not socially fair. Nor do I think it is right that there has been no real structural reforms and that the trade union federation and also the trade unions have not worked properly in this area. They are at least already defending themselves in a number of trade unions and want to take strong action against this package of measures. I hope they will succeed, because every Member in this House who approves this package of savings is, I think, far away from the base, and I would recommend that he go out to the farms once and ask the people working there whether this package of measures or the package of taxes can be considered the right way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have also followed Mr Wabl's remarks here. I just want to tell you, you've been talking wonderfully, you've really documented that double references are just not the right way, but you've forgotten one thing: It's got a hook when you're left with a small fortune, if the pension is not paid out of the money you earn, but because you just get it. [[Abg. Wabl: That's off!]] That's, I think, a hook with it. Otherwise, I found your speech wonderful, where of course the 20-shilling distribution action was a right action to impress, and not because you like to give back to the population something that you have collected. [[Abg. Wabl: Of course!]] I know that you don't like it so much. But now to a next point, which is certainly also entitled. The people have a right to demand from the politicians in this state who have created such a bad situation that they should actually serve as role models. This is something – and it would be a matter of course – that the political privileges should be reduced. That is, I think, the right way, although it is clear that there is no intention of giving anything where you are yourself, where you have double references. This goes right into the Chamber of Labour, to the officials and also to the employees there, and this goes equally into the area of trade unions, where double references are going and given. Some examples: The chairman of the Tiroler Gebieskrankenkasse is a worker chamber board member and union secretary with full references. I can't judge whether he's doing the job there. He probably won't, but he'll get it paid. [[Abg. Koppler: You are also a Member!]] Member of the Koppler, you are exactly the right person who can interrupt me with such a call. I'm actually glad because I can tell you now: You're one of the privileged knights as well. [[Abg. Koppler: That's what you're part of!]] No, I don't, because I don't have a double reference; someone else has it. [[Abg. Koppler: The Haider?]] I don't want to do that. [[Abg. Koppler: Can you prove this?]] Yes, of course! I don't need two salaries, I don't need a double cover, but you're a privilege rider. [[Abg. Koppler: Can you prove that?]] You go to the VOEST and you never work there. You even hire another one to do the job for you. That is, I believe, not the right thing – and this is at the expense of the workers, I just want to say that to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: I was there, but the Meisinger missed the meeting!]] It is appropriate for me, with my appeal to this House, to make a clear statement to the Members of this House: Members should go ahead with a good example of reducing the privileges that really exist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] It is clear, Mr President, that you have such a privilege, of course. You have said you are a teacher of profession and actually don't have a student at all, but you still get the salary. I would be ashamed if I had a salary to pay for not teaching and not providing any service. [[Abg. Asshole: I said that it is not just!]] Give it back! You heard, it's okay. Return or donate the content It is at least for charitable purposes, which is much better so that others also have something of it. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Emmerich, as social purposes as the "F"!]] Mrs Mertel has always been so pleased to speak in. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You didn't listen!]] Even she probably looked for an office and didn't find it. Maybe she didn't leave the office at all. It may be that the office just disappeared because you're never there anyway because you're not working anyway. [[Abg. Leikam: You argue like the Andreas Hofer!]] And you want to be a model! I don't think that's right. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Mr Colleague, you reach a depth like a bathtub!]] But I would like to turn to the Federal Minister, who today said something in his reply to this urgent question, which, if he has really meant this seriously, does not, in my view, correspond to the truth. [[Abg. Leikam: (to the ranks of the liberators) No one listens to you! You can stop!]] I am chairman of the Economic Policy Committee in the Chamber of Labour in Tyrol, and we have, of course, already lost our mind about the package of measures. We have been thinking about the real obstacle to skip, and we believe that not only up to medium incomes, but also that there should be the same percentage of taxes on higher incomes. But unfortunately this is not the case with this package of measures, Mr Minister, I really have to tell you. I have an AK table with which I can prove it to you. Finally, we want to achieve that it is not just small incomes, and we have found that the burden in this package of measures presented by the Federal Government – now only in the tax field; I do not want to talk about social policy at all – already starts at 12 000 S gross incomes per month at 1.45 per cent. At 13,000 s of monthly income, it is already 2.9%. And if I put a comparison now – I have to, of course, also a Comparing –: With an income of 150,000 S per month, the burden is 2.1 per cent. So between 150 000 S and 13 000 S of monthly income is a difference in the burden, namely that the one with 13,000 S is 2.9% and the one earning 150,000 S per month is only 2.1 percent. I therefore believe, Minister of State, that your statement that everyone is at the same time certainly does not correspond to the truth. Even though I am now starting from middle income – or say, of slightly better middle income, because 40 000 S per month is certainly not a small income anymore – the burden for a monthly income of 40 000 S gross is 4.38 percent. From there, from the 40 000 S, the load falls again, as the table shows less percent. That is why you cannot tell me, Mr Federal Minister, that this is a burden, in which even the higher-earners are asked to register as strongly as possible. From me, maybe in Schillingen, I'll give you the right, but I won't give you the percentage. We have even made the effort to draw up a counter-proposal for a fairer tax burden, but I do not want to mention this case here again and thus bring another model into the discussion, because it should be the right way to make a fair decision. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The government, which has made these mistakes and has the responsibility to look forward to this package of measures today, must say: The scrapping company Vrannitzky, Schüssel & Co. today has the last chance to miss out on itself, i.e. to leave with the privilege riders, and it also has the opportunity to link a package of measures that is socially fair and does not burden the small income more in the way it is done here. And if I recall that Mr Social Minister Hums is now presenting us with the new package for 1997, after which even the ASVG-pensions do not receive a normal percentage increase, then, I believe, we are exactly on the way to saying: I am sorry that we have such a government, and I hope that will be different next time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8791	Mr Koppler has reported on an actual correction. I would ask for a comparison of the facts to be corrected with the actual one. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8813	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Blünegger, in his speech, said that I would be among the privileged knights, that I would involve a salary in the VOEST-ALPINE, but would never be present there. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In fact, I am correct that I am the first in the VOEST-ALPINE Central Works Council to be chairman and part-time employed. If I am not at a plenary session or at a committee in the House, I am at seven o'clock every day in the morning in my office in the VOEST ALPINE. [[Abg. Haigermoser: When?]] I think there are a lot of Members here who can confirm this because I am very often called by the liberals already at seven o'clock or at half eight.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8874	Mr Hans Schöll is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8899	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said about the various privileges, and Mr Blünegger has already summarized a lot. The last correction alone shows the emotions to which it can come again and again in this context. I would like to stress the privileges in another area – although they have already been torn short today – in the field of non-profit cooperatives. They have had these privileges since the 3. WATER particularly clear and, one can say, receive in several ways, namely with regard to the remuneration of the employees, i.e. the senior employees who are getting employment there according to the class of service IX; also several remunerations are possible. In accordance with these terms, they also retire. Many privileges, however, have already been created before. This is particularly evident when you compare the rental law, where they have found various exceptions, and in recent times there have been a number of shock reports in the various leaves, according to which the cooperatives even want to increase their rents. On the other hand, there are several demands. One of them moved me particularly, that was the demand of the Chamber of Workers, which she published in the "Kronen-Zeitung". That's what it says: "When I moved out of my apartment, a non-profit building association charged me a few thousands more than special administration costs. Fortunately, I asked the Chamber of Labour and found out that this was illegal. Now I have the money and interest again." That's more appealing. If it wasn't that serious, you could go over it. But it is clear here that even the Chamber of Workers or many of them have seen in the area of the Chamber of Workers, what an unfavorable thing happens in the non-profit cooperatives and what privileges have been torn under the nail there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not only - we have often pointed out - that land is being held, that money is being spent on housing, which has long been needed for housing, but the cooperatives are now enjoying the luxury that they continue to recover the same increased rents from the cooperative renter concerned, so that in some homes even double and triple payments are made. We believe that there is no way to tolerate this policy, and we therefore propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly a useful action, because it is not a question of transferring, on and on its own, the opposite and thinking about these apartments of non-profit cooperatives, after they have been paid out, to housing property at appropriate conditions, which can partially be paid double and triple. We don't have to go with the liberals. I would like to point out to you that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has recently issued an issue on joint efforts within the EU, lastly at the EU Building Ministers' Ministerial Meeting on 9 and 10. ==References====External links== A similar meeting is planned for April in Copenhagen, where we will begin to prepare a common housing and housing policy within the individual EU countries and to draw up common directives. At the time of accession to the EU, we had to see that there were hardly any significant statements in the area of housing in itself. I also think it is quite reasonable that we may find a common approach within the European countries, and there is certainly the right and reasonable reason for us to make sure that we do not, then, have to put the cards on the table with such things as they are present here in the area of our common people. Apart from the fact that it is absolutely social privileges that have been created by the community on the back of a few hundred thousand brave tenants.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e8987	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor. - Second, Mr. Haider! The motion for a resolution, which has been read by Mr Schöll, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9011	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the Members of the Government today have doubts as to whether this special meeting is meaningful and necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: They still exist!]] I want to convince you, Mrs Fekter. If even now your clubman, together with the clubman of the Socialist Party, feels obliged to make his own request for the reduction of privileges in the public sector, this is actually a very clear indication that everything is not all right, and that is already a beautiful success of this special meeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this motion for a resolution, they say quite openly that it is a matter of establishing a fair, transparent regime for the income of politicians and other people active in the public sector. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's what we said throughout the discussion! What's new?]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, with this in mind, you are stressing that at present there is no fair regulation, no transparent regulation, not only for policy, but also for the whole area of public functions in the political and semi-political sphere. And that is exactly the starting point, which is why we say quite clearly to you here too: This proposal alone will not be enough to paralyze our activities, because we, the Members of the Liberals, have been constantly reaching a great deal in this House since 1979 in terms of the reduction of privileges. The first step was that we had to deal with all the resistances here in the house at a night meeting at a later hour with the question of full taxation of political charges, so that no one could see what has already been planned again, and that no one would know how it is going to be, and finally have enforced that there is a full taxation of political charges, although for politicians – to the difference of other citizens in Austria – there has been a 50 percent tax freedom for many years. We have addressed the problem of multifunctionaries, those who accumulate the functions. To date, this question has not been finally and satisfactorily solved, as I could explain in some examples, but: Steter drop hollows the stone. We have dealt twice with the question of the Austrian National Bank here in the Austrian Parliament, and it has always been said that this is just a nuisance, that is all wrong, that is just a envy complex. – Today, the Minister himself must admit that it would be necessary to establish rules in the field of the Austrian National Bank. Today, he must also admit to us that it would be necessary to take measures in the field of social security, because it is simply unfair if officials of red and black who have occupied this state assign privileges as volunteer officials in social security, only so that they can provide a few, while at the same time one is squeaky with pensioners and pensioners. They are ordered to cancel or freeze their covers and salaries, but on the other hand these maladministrations are maintained in the political relations of the officials. These are things that we will not carry. We will therefore try to hold debates here in Parliament from the National Bank through the Chamber of Workers to the social security sector until satisfactory solutions are found in the interests of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the task of an effective, functioning opposition, and I gradually consider us to be the only opposition, because the others have already become branches of the two government parties, helping the two government parties to fight the liberals, rather than controlling the government, how this should be a matter of course for a proper opposition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, I have read an interview with Minister Klima in the "Industriemagazin" in which he is very uncanny about how to change the holiday and Christmas money in the near future. It will be included in the tariff; whether this will lead to a tax reduction, he cannot say yet. So the government is already planning the next measure to break a given promise, and it is planning the next step to tax holiday and Christmas money more strongly, as is now the deterioration of social security contributions. If you do, I can already promise you today that we will be very bitter about the questions of a prior reduction in the privilege before you will be given the chance to bring further burdens through increased taxation of holiday and Christmas money over the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this issue, we can highlight point by point our path of success: Full taxation of political references, successful fight against the multifunctionaries, showing the maladministrations in the National Bank, taking action against the privileges in the Chamber of Labour with the reactions it has given, and now finally... [[Abg. Swimmling: But the Bearentals are not yet regulated!]] The carnival is already out, colleague, but that has not yet been discussed to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have not noticed this in your speech that the carnival is already over!]] The Fasching, Mr. Colleague, is especially for those who believe that dealing with the privilege debate can be one of those who go over where one speaks big outside of the congregations and laughs inside and says, "We judge it again!" [[Abg. Edler: With you is always Ashini Wednesday!]] We are the guarantee that there is no one here in this House, but that privileges will actually be reduced – whether you, my colleague, are fit or not! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have not only in the National Bank, you have not only red and black officials who are responsible for this system in the social security scheme, but also in the housing cooperatives you have worked red and black power distribution. When we showed the liberals half a year ago that it is a pleasure that the tenants of non-profit cooperatives will have to pay high rents even if the repayments of the loans are no longer necessary after 20 years – nevertheless, the cooperatives calculate the rent as high as if they were still loans – and we said that we could actually reduce the rents, it was also said that this was once again such a semi-truth that the liberals put into space. – Today I read in the newspaper that the SPÖ Vienna is now suddenly our opinion. So I expect the Socialist Group here in the House to agree to our request for a change in the law on non-profit-making of housing, so that we can have a legal basis for reducing rents to 30 s per square meter when funding is made in non-profit-making apartments. If you don't, you'll be unbelievable in the public with all your confession. I say the following to you: We Liberals will not have the last debate on privileges here in the House because I am sure that you are unable and unwilling to bring about a proper regulation in this regard. But you will be faced by us as long as the Austrians have the certainty that we have permanently reformed this twisted, unjust, privileged red-black political system.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9140	Mr Bundesminister Klima has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9162	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to my original intention, I see myself forced – I don't know if one can do that from the government bank – to make an actual correction, an actual correction – I thank you, okay, we call it a general word message – which reads: [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: No, you can't!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: But a word message is possible!]] There is no intention of taxing 13th and 14ths. (b) to change the date of entry into force of the Agreement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With emphasis and in all clarity: It is not intended to tax 13 and 14. A change in the month-by-month relationship. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is there a social levy?]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It must be clear to every economic politician that it has to deal very long-term, also far beyond the turn of the millennium, with the adjustments in the field of budgetary policy, technology policy and also in the field of tax policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A vision?]] A vision as you say. It is not only the general objective of harmonising workers' and pension rights, but also the objective of harmonising tax law far beyond 2000, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I explain once again – and everything else would be a smooth lie: If anyone claims that I said that in this millennium on 13th and 14th, This is a smooth lie. And that's why I'm going to explain: That's not what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9248	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. We arrive at the votes. I note that the necessary quota is given. - Please take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Haider and Mr Comrades on privileges and tax package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Dr. Haider, to give an indication of this. This is the minority and is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Trattner and comrades on promotion report and coordination of promotion. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution show this by a sign. – The application did not find the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others on privileges in the public sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. . This request was adopted unanimously. (E 4.) Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades with regard to staff reduction in the central offices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to Stadler's motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and Mr Comrades on the saving of service vehicles. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Haider and others on the reduction of political privileges. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Dr. Haider, for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and Mr Comrades on the reduction of chamber charges. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request by Mr Haider. – This is the minority, is rejected. We shall also vote on Mrs Aumayr's motion for a resolution on the risk of poverty for Austrian farmers. In the event of approval, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades on the revision of the housing law on the reduction of cooperative rents to the conservation contribution. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. Rejected. Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-02-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00007_d7e9382	I declare that the immunity committee has been given a request from the International District Court for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Jörg Haiderwegen for a criminal offence under § 111 StGB. I would also like to say that, at today's meeting of the National Council, requests for applications 100/A to 109/A and questions 153/J to 181/J were submitted or received. Please take note. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Wednesday, 28. Feber, ten o'clock. As the Immunity Committee, whose report is on the agenda for this meeting, will not meet in the early morning, the written convocation of this meeting will only be delivered by the parliamentary clubs shortly before the beginning of the meeting. The meeting is closed.
