ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5339	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you to take your seat. I'll open the 16th. Meeting of the National Council and announce that the official protocols of the 13th ==References== ==References== Meeting of 21 March 1991 In the European Parliament's Directorate of Parliament, the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the On today's day of sitting as an obstacle, MEPs were reported Dr. Povysil, Mag. Chief, Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Höchtl, Mag. Kammerlander, Dr. Fuhrmann and Hans Helmut Moser. Declaration by the President on the occasion of the 40th anniversary. Anniversary of Austria's accession to the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5382	Ladies and gentlemen! Today 40 years ago, 16th century. In 1956, the Austrian Foreign Minister Dipl.-Ing. Leopold Figl filed the certificate of accession of Austria to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. ==References== Member State of the Council of Europe and thus took an important step towards participation in European affairs. We agreed at the Presidential meeting of the National Council that we should remember this anniversary and this first important decision on Europe or let it pass by. That decision 40 years ago was a motion for a resolution by Dr. Pittermann, Dr. Stürgkh and Comrades of the 16th century. In December 1953, the Federal Government was asked to deal with the question of Austria's accession to the Council of Europe. By the way, it has been used at the time to set up its own "Economic Committee for the Consultation of European Questions" and so important has it been for the conclusion of the State Treaty and for international recognition Austria has taken this question. It has actually succeeded in achieving this goal. Austria has become an exceptionally recognised and actively cooperating member of the Council of Europe. In this respect, Austria's accession to the Council of Europe is a good example of a parliamentary and European initiative. Of course, the idea is that Europe is more than the sum of the individual states on its ground, far back in history. And even the term "Council of Europe" for a body that is prepared by the individual states to stand above a confederation of European states is found in political literature – as Mr Deputies Schieder put it in a contribution – as early as the 17th century. ==References== But it took a very long time until the actual construction of such structures. Two terrible world wars with millions of dead and all the terrible experiences were apparently necessary until the statesmen, politicians and citizens of this continent were ready to take such steps. And it may also have required the various totalitarian terrors of this century – fascism as well as Communism – to make it clear indisputably clear that this united Europe can only develop on the fundamental values of parliamentary democracy and human rights. This is, in any case, the spirit in which the Council of Europe was founded and which Austria has also committed itself to uphold. The Statutes of the Council of Europe also show that this institution is particularly committed to the principles of the rule of law. We know that since the founding of the Council of Europe there have also been other institutions dedicated to the development of Europe; in a very special way, of course, the European Union, the Austrian Union, with effect from 1 January. ==References====External links== However, the Council of Europe still has an extremely important role to play. The undisputed most important achievement of the Council of Europe was probably the preparation and implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which gave the Republic of Austria constitutional status. An important instrument for the protection of human rights has been created with the individual rights of complaint and the mechanisms for implementing them in order to make them effective. Ladies and gentlemen! The great Europeans of the last five decades probably have one thing in common that they have been able to learn from history and, in the light of these experiences, to look forward to the future of Europe. – This is also our task, as difficult as that may be. Because nothing – or almost nothing – is unchanged in this area, and the task is therefore always new and always new to answer and solve. In fact, the whole history of Europe in the last 2000 years has been the history of Europe's change and the expansion of this term. Otto Schulmeister has in connection with his 80. Recently birthday with the urgency characteristic of him asked the very simple question: What is Europe today? The answer may or may even have to be: Europe is what we make of it! The project Europe is a multi-layered, difficult undertaking, with progress and setbacks, with successes and defeats, but without guarantee. There are many temptations to behave in quite different ways in certain places on certain issues and under certain conditions. Moreover, there is a constant danger that the discourse of those who deal with Europe in a professional and functional way will move in different ways than the thinking and feeling of individual citizens of this continent. But Europe is a political project and can only develop if it is carried by the citizens of Europe and not only – as important as it may be – by politicians, diplomats or officials. Ladies and gentlemen! The good reputation of the Council of Europe as a democratic European institution is therefore of utmost importance and in this sense. That is why I am glad – and we are probably all glad that – that a few weeks ago, the members of the Austrian delegation to be sent by the Council of Europe to the Council of Europe were able to vote unanimously again in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by thanking all those Austrian parliamentarians who have worked in the Council of Europe's Consultative Assembly over the last 40 years for their commitment and performance. I would particularly like to mention Dr Lujo Ton#i% and Dr Franz Karasek, who served as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, and also Karl Czernetz, who has been President of the Council of Europe for three years. They all have prepared honor for our country in the truest sense of the word. I would like to wish those Austrian delegates from the National Council and the Federal Council, who today put their commitment, their knowledge and the wealth of their experience in the service of the Council of Europe and its tasks, a great deal of success for their further work – for the good of Austria and for the good of Europe! This is in line with the fact that we have felt committed to this Council of Europe in the past and will continue to serve it to the best in the future. - Thank you many times. [[General condolences.]] [[11:13]] I should like to invite the presidents of the club to deliver opinions on this subject. We want to put this on a broad, comprehensive basis as far as possible. The first speaker is Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5488	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The words on the occasion of the 40th anniversary. Finding anniversary of Austria's membership of the Council of Europe should also be considerate of our role in the Council of Europe and that of the Council of Europe for us. The Council of Europe is simply and simply not, as we all hear, an institution for the early phase of European integration. On the contrary. We, who are both members of the European Union and of the Council of Europe today, are in favour of the Council of Europe not being downgraded into a crab of young democracies. It has a much wider task than the European Union. When it comes primarily to economic integration, to the collapse of advanced industrialised countries in Europe, the Council of Europe is concerned solely with the rule of law, the rule of rights, human rights and democracy, as well as with ensuring fundamental rights and bringing together all the nations of Europe and beyond. This entails a change in the functioning of the Council of Europe. The dynamic of European integration has a new task for it; a task, particularly to be a bridge for the new states in the East, the North and the South of this continent, to introduce them to the rule of law, to pave the way for democracy and to encourage and support them in this way. With Russia's accession to the Council of Europe, an essential step has been taken towards the newer and further dimension of the European Council's tasks, namely the security dimension of this organisation. In order to be able to live in a secure Europe, we will also need a system of collective security in the form of a political organisation, and I believe that we can imagine very well and that the Council of Europe will take on an important role here. These 40 years, which we are in this organization, have been full of years of work in which this organization, with more than 140 conventions and conventions, has created a broad basis of the rule of law, democracy, humanity on this continent and beyond. For, ladies and gentlemen, the radiance of this organization and its moral intensity go far beyond this continent. Let us therefore leave this 40. The anniversary of the Council of Europe honours it as an organization that has made this continent a more peaceful, democratic and humanitarian one. In this situation, let us also remember those Austrians who perform important functions in the Council of Europe and who, as Mr President has just said, have, in the best sense, also contributed to the reputation of Austria, whether as President, as Secretary-General or as my clubman, arbitrator, as chairperson of all Members of the 35 nations in political membership, to a specific direction. They have all contributed to the success of this great European work, up to every individual member and replacement member. Thank you too!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5533	Please, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5555	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When Austria was able to join the Council of Europe in 1956, this was the international confirmation of full sovereignty for the Second Republic, and it was also the confirmation that Austria belongs to the circle of the rule of law, freedom-oriented, socially market-oriented democracies. This was a birth certificate for our Republic after 1945, according to the State Treaty. This membership of the Council of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, has brought us a lot. It was laid there, in the mother of European integration, the basis for the European Economic Community and for EFTA. The instruments of integration we can handle today in the European Union have been developed in the Council of Europe. The Convention on Human Rights is one of the basic pillars of our public order. And we have a very important role to play in the Human Rights Commission, in which Felix Ermacora, which has recently been divorced from this world, has played a very important role: above all, the awareness that justice also needs to be controlled, that investigational detention constitutes an intervention into a precious legal property, namely freedom, and that justice in this area must also be controlled internationally. As a South Tyrol, I would like to say that we have still attached the international anchorage of the South Tyrol package to the Council of Europe. The European Controversy Convention is our guarantee that the rights of our people in South Tyrol are guaranteed, and the efforts on the verge of the Council of Europe have also led to this autonomy. The Council of Europe has become an important instrument of legal harmonisation. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, blood canneds are transported throughout Europe, the prostheses are harmonised throughout Europe, and young people across Europe can study everywhere because of their maturity certificates. For example, there are hundreds of conventions of the Council of Europe that have put a dense interweaving over our continent; a union that is useful to all of us. Membership in the Council of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact part of the birth certificate of democratic states. It is therefore very important that the Council of Europe has always watched over democracy, not about wealth, not about trade and change, but about the orderly public européen, about public order in Europe. It was important that Greece, when it abolished democracy, had to leave the Council of Europe. It was important that Spain and Portugal were allowed to enter the Council of Europe only when they were full democracies. I too remember the great Europeans. I remember Karl Czernetz, President of the Consultative Assembly, then called it, an enthusiastic social democrat and European. But I also remember gratefully the Liberties Wilfried Gredler, who, as a Member of the Liberal and later Ambassadors in Strasbourg, became a "Mister Europe" and also contributed a great deal to the European Union's reluctance by the liberals at that time. I also remember Lujo Ton#i% and Franz Karasek, who did great things as Secretary General of this organization. We are all obliged to thank them. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Europe has now opened up to a whole series of Central and Eastern European countries, which, if they are looking for enlargement glass, do not yet meet the standard of the European Convention on Human Rights. I hope that this progress made by the Council of Europe will not result in the reduction of the Council of Europe's human rights standard, but rather in what it intends to do: that human rights should also be fully guaranteed in the new democracies. That is why we will continue to be grateful to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5612	Mr Dr. Haider came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5633	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The anniversary of 40 years of membership of Austria in the Council of Europe is an important anniversary for us – not only because Austria has been included in the democratic and rule-of-law community, but because this Council of Europe corresponds to that of its idea and philosophy, which we still depend on: a Europe of diversity, a Europe of peace, a Europe of democracy and the rule of law. I say this very consciously because, unlike the European Union, the Council of Europe has made the clear decision to lay the foundation for the peace and freedom of these European states, and this is not possible when this Europe ends in the West. This Europe will only be a free Europe if it is a comprehensive one and will gradually integrate all those countries that have suffered for decades in Eastern Europe under the Communist dictatorship into the community of civilised rule of law democracies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, it is not a question at all for us – it is already sounding to us today, and Otto Schulmeister did yesterday at his thanks address on the occasion of his 80th celebration. _Anniversary: Austria is living by the fact that the Danube is moving east, and that special security guarantees are required from this small country in the middle of Europe. That is why we have, of course, agreed to the fact that the enlargement of the Council of Europe to Russia has also been a positive step, although I do not want to hide that we have to be very concerned about the brutal way in which Russia is currently dealing with the fundamental and freedom rights and the civil rights of its fellow citizens in Chechnya. And precisely on the occasion of this jubilee, the appeal should also be made to Russia to return to a civilized legal culture and to stop people's disdain and persecution as in Chechnya as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Europe was actually the answer to the totalitarian errors in the 20th century. The European Council of Europe's great achievement in creating the Convention on Human Rights, which has become the basis of citizens' rights throughout Europe, is an answer that should ensure diversity, democracy and the rule of law. This guarantee of civil rights was ultimately reinforced by the child of the Council of Europe, namely the European Court of Human Rights, because if you cannot sue, you do not benefit from the best legal guarantees. This European Court of Human Rights has already helped many Austrians, who have suffered under the control of the bureaucracy, under political will, also here in that country. This European Court of Human Rights has also given us the opportunity to take the right to this Court three years ago in order to sue the unsustainable monopoly of the ORF, and also to overcome it. And I am still waiting for the Austrian Federal Government not only to celebrate the anniversary of the Council of Europe, but also to take account of the decisions of the European Court of Justice and to abolish the monopoly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, it is also a human rights convention at the heart of this Europe. And Article 4 says: "Every member of the Council of Europe must recognise the principle of the rule of law and the principle of ensuring human rights and fundamental truths to all persons in the area of their jurisdiction." I repeat this point in Article 4 because not only did important Austrians work in the Council of Europe, but because the Wilfried Gredler, already quoted today, always had a Europe in mind, which should also be a Europe of citizens and citizens' rights. It is therefore not quite understandable to have a budget presented just on the day when the anniversary of our membership in the Council of Europe is celebrated, a few minutes later, which violates the legal protection of citizens and the fundamental rights of the highest judicial control and thus makes it possible to reject law and to reject democracy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am therefore saying this because we have in mind a Europe which is a Europe of citizens' rights and a Europe of citizens. Wilfried Gredler, too, has seen this Europe of citizens, not that of the EU today, because it is a Europe of technocrats or, as he has formulated there and there, a Europe where there is no fundamental and human rights protection. We should be aware that the Council of Europe respects human rights, that the Council of Europe defends fundamental rights, that the Council of Europe provides a Court of Justice to ensure full fundamental and freedom rights. We should also be aware, however, that the EU, in which this government has so pushed in, has not yet given up any form of fundamental and human rights protection in its institutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5709	Mrs Dr Schmidt came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5730	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it always seduces a anniversary occasion – at least the government parties, they have shown it – to see first and foremost the positive aspects of the anniversary. However, I believe it is quite appropriate to consider the matter in itself; to consider whether, on the one hand, the achievements, the objectives set at the time were appropriate or whether, on the other hand, the objectives are still sufficient or extended, perhaps even need to be changed. Now it was the Council of Europe's aim to advance European agreement. In this respect, Liberals are also a very important institution for us, because we have also made this objective of European agreement a political principle. Unlike my previous speaker, who believes that the Council of Europe has made peace and freedom for society in contrast to the EU, I must say: This has also been done by the EU. It is a question of the extent to which one or the other of the institutions is able to contribute to this. The goal is both. However, I believe that the difference in the objective of unity with the Council of Europe has already been defined in the Statutes which were drawn up in 1948/49, in which not a common Europe was the desired objective, but a greater agreement than it was at that time. Such a goal has been achieved. However, the further objective of being the centre of European agreement has not been achieved. You can find that good or bad. I believe that it is primarily because this Council of Europe has only a consultative and coordinating role, and therefore it is not possible to implement it directly and thus a centre of European agreement. On the one hand, this has also contributed to a higher acceptance of this Council of Europe, because it serves the democratic self-confidence of a state and benefits from being a member of the Council of Europe, but on the other hand it is not linked to sanctions when one violates common principles. That is, not even a judgment by the European Court of Justice has direct consequences. I therefore see it quite indisputably, therefore, how these institutions can contribute to a common level of these societies as regards the minimum standards of human rights, social and other rights. I also see it very dubious, above all, if we include states in the Council of Europe, which obviously do not meet these minimum standards. I cannot join the joy of taking up states such as Russia, and I believe that this would be the opportunity to take these countries better into account. For, with all due respect for the possibility of individual complaint before the Court of Justice to the members of these States, it is equally for me, if not to a greater extent, the danger of immersing human rights. In view of the human rights violations, it is assumed that they do not take place, there is a fiction under which one can even raise the feeling of legitimacy among these states. However, the Council of Europe and human rights must be regarded as a rather law of belonging. However, the credibility of the Council of Europe is at risk of being undermined in other areas. And I would like to address concrete issues which I expect the Austrian Government, the Austrian Parliament, to act. It is not enough for us all to boast of being a member of the Council of Europe and therefore supposedly comply with a minimum standard. The fact is that 20 years ago the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages was drawn up, which has since been signed by most States but not ratified. This has been done by Finland, Norway and Hungary only so far. Austria didn't do it. In my view, therefore, we have no right to boast of what an active member of the Council of Europe we are and that we can take on a pioneering role. Another convention, which I think is extremely necessary, concerns the participation of foreigners in public life at local level. Here too, Austria could play an essential role in the fact that the entry into force depends on the ratification of this Convention by four States. Austria could be the fourth state to Sweden, Norway and Italy. I therefore call on this Parliament – and we shall make a relevant motion for a resolution – to call on the government to initiate the ratification process, otherwise we have only taken advantage of today's opportunity to speak good words, to boast, but nothing has contributed to the fact that the floor is actually created; a floor for a Europe with enlarged citizens' rights. This must not be a Europe that is only about protecting against the decline of individual industries. It is about civil rights and human rights! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5781	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5803	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! For 40 years Austrian membership of the Council of Europe is also a cause for joy for the Greens. I did not understand the statements made by the members of the government's club as purely jubilant messages, they were quite critical undertones in them. However, I believe that we are not doing enough to take account of the legitimate criticism that exists today. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka, said in his remarks that we must be careful not to degradate the Council of Europe into a crab of young democracies. Klubobmann Dr. Khol pointed out that the Council of Europe is not about the interests of trade, but about property matters, but about others. If we continue to think, we must ask ourselves the question: What does that mean? – If the real Europe, this spirit – perhaps also in a humanist tradition of this Europe – is something other than a playground for new Member States, represented as commercial interests, as an exchange of goods, then ask yourself: What is this spirit, and does the Council of Europe take it into account? . I think, in its core idea, yes, but where the criticism legitimately begins, namely that the Member States, which may have a special obligation like Austria, play a particularly active role, I do not believe they are fulfilling this obligation. What has the Council of Europe done in the lead? What are the main concerns? – The Council of Europe – and this has been stressed by everyone – has always been the bridge to Eastern and Southern Europe. It is important to expand this, and, of course, it is important to say that new countries should be taken up and that human rights should be promoted. However, the Council of Europe was always aware of its role in relation to individual fundamental and freedom rights. – The Human Rights Convention, this basic human rights document, has been written. I remember the campaign "all different, all equal" in which it was emphasized that we must finally move to view people as human beings and make no differences in race, gender, religion or any personal characteristics. However, such campaigns can only begin then, can only be credible if individual Member States take full account of the content. And it also raises the question in Austria: Are we? . If, for example, I recall the Council of Europe's recommendations that discrimination, sanctions against homosexuals, should finally be lifted, this Parliament must also raise the question: Why have we not even created this minimum of fundamental and freedom rights, which should actually be the avant-garde in this Europe or which are among the states of the avant-garde? [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] We also need to ask how the behavior is. Greece was rightly remembered, but there are other groups of people in Europe who are being brutally discriminated against. I just remember the Kurds. Here, too, Austria should be leading the way so that human rights and justice can finally come to the fore. As a green Member, however, one more point is important to me: The Council of Europe made the European Year of Nature Conservation last year. I believe that this idea too must be developed and upgraded. Here, too, Austria is required to set new standards as a country of the European avant-garde and to encourage those countries that may still need to catch up, to be a driving force for them. I do not believe that we have done everything in this area to make full use of our role in the Council of Europe. One last thing: I believe that these 40 years of Council of Europe should also bring us to national thought. If Klubobmann Kostelka has spoken about a security system, I remember 1956 and Austria in this situation. – We should therefore consider the actual foundations of security, and these are human rights, but this is also an in-depth reflection on Austrian neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5857	I would like to thank the president of the club for their appreciation of four decades of Austrian membership in the Council of Europe and wish the Austrian delegates to the Council of Europe all the best and good luck. The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5878	Ladies and gentlemen! I declare that the Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs Dr. Liane Höbinger-Lehrer has waived her mandate and that Mr Deputies may. Karl Schweitzer's mandate was re-allocated. His fishing is scheduled to take place tomorrow, the next Thursday. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5908	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6049	I would also like to say that the second report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of the meeting of replies to questions
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6070	The request, supported by 20 Members, has been made that a meeting be held on behalf of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on the reply to Question No 61/J by Mr Aumayr and Mr Comrades on the facilitation of imports of livestock from Eastern Europe by Mr Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs before entering the agenda of this meeting. The request, supported by 20 Members, has also been made that a meeting be held on the reply to question 101/J by Mrs Rosenstingl and others concerning the 60 billion Schilling package for the Austrian Federal Railways by the Federal Minister for Finance before entering the agenda. In addition, the request, supported by 20 Members, has been made that the reply 130/AB to Question 140/J by the honourable Member. Peter and comrades on repayment of external trade promotion contributions which have been wrongly abolished by the Federal Minister for Finance before entering the agenda may have a meeting. In this context, it has been asked by the members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP to hold a presidential meeting. I shall convene this presidential meeting without interruption of the meeting of the National Council at 1/15 p.m. I refer to the discussion of the above mentioned answers in accordance with § 92 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the sitting, but not beyond 4 p.m., in the order of the questions given, provided that the proceedings of the President's sitting do not give rise to anything else. I would ask you to take note of this at the moment. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (72 and 72 of the supplements: Structural Adjustment Act 1996 (95 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6105	We shall now go into the agenda and come to the item on the agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (72 and 72 of the Supplements): Structural Adjustment Act 1996 in 95 of the Supplements. The rapporteur is Mr Müller. He has the floor for the introduction of our deliberations. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6125	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I shall report on the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996, 72 and 72 of the Supplements. In view of the strained budgetary situation, savings must be made to the greatest extent possible in the context of the Federal Finance Act 1996. The aim of the Government template is to discharge the federal budget in the longer term, taking into account the social balance of the planned measures and the development of new revenue. This is to be achieved through cost-reducing schemes in various areas, such as public service, social security, social security, tax rights, family balance and university and higher education, combined with new charges and public administration breakdowns. According to § 25 of the Rules of Procedure, the government template was adopted by decision of the Federal Government of 26. In March 1996, an amendment to the Federal Ministerial Act 1986 was amended by the introduction of Article 91. This will implement the results of the negotiations on the formation of a new Federal Government in so far as they concern the number and scope of the Federal Ministries Act 1986. The Budget Committee has the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 from 26 to 28. In March 1996, a preliminary consultation was held. The debate and the vote were divided as follows: Federal Chancellery: Articles 1 to 19, finances: Articles 39 to 67, Social Affairs: Articles 21 to 38, Family and Environment: Articles 72, 86 and 87, Science and Transport: Article 89, 90, 92 to 98, other parts: Articles 20, 68 to 71, 73 to 85 and 88. Article 91 was then also dealt with within the framework of this group. At the time of the vote on 28. In March 1996, the draft law contained in the Government's proposal was adopted taking account of amendments tabled by Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachlerund Ing. Kurt Gartlehnerwith changing majority adoptions. Amended or supplementary proposal by Mr Karl Oellinger, Mr Hermann Böhacker, Mr Mag. Gilbert Trattner, Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, Edith Haller, Dr. Stefan Salzlso as well as Peter Rosenstinglfanden not the majority of the committee. At the request of Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachlerund Ing. Kurt Gartlehner decided by a majority to submit to the National Council a draft resolution concerning an examination of the transport effects on particularly sensitive routes in connection with the introduction of the high-level road network vignette and the draft resolution concerning the submission of a draft law on the revision of the law on rent law. A motion for a resolution by Mr Karl Oellingerblief in the minority. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Budgets therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft bill annexed to the written committee report in 95 of the Supplements and adopt the resolutions annexed to the written committee report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6211	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remember that in some magazines we will again be described as "gourmet temples" if we have food on the benches. I'm asking you to give this away. It was decided to hold general and special debates under one. In accordance with § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to carry out the debate and vote in part. The deliberations are to be divided into a part of finance, which is Articles 39 to 67, part family and environment, which are Articles 72, 86 and 87, part of the Federal Chancellery and Public Service, which are Articles 1 to 19, part justice, which are Articles 73 to 78, part internal, those are Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98, part social, which are Articles 21 to 38, part science and transport, which are Articles 89, 90 and 92 to 97, part agriculture, which are Articles 84 and 85, and another part containing the remaining parts of the Structural Adjustment Act. Are objections raised against this breakdown? – That's not the case, then we can do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6251	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration of the debates on the agenda. Accordingly, for today's meeting day and for the 19th meeting, it is expected to be held. A block time of 11 hours will be set on April, so that the following speaking times will occur on these days: SPÖ 165, ÖVP 154, Liberal 143, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. For the plenary day on 17 and 18. April 13 Vienna hours are proposed, so that the speaking time for the SPÖ 195, for the ÖVP 182, for the Freeman 169, for Liberals and Greens is 117 minutes each. If a member of the Federal Government speaks for more than 20 minutes on a negotiating day in the debate, the extent of the overrun should be taken into account in the speaking time of the respective group. The Federal Minister for Justice is not affected by this regulation. Consensus has also been reached on this proposal. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That is what we have decided to do, and we shall proceed in this way. Articles 39 to 67 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act Finance
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6297	We therefore reach the Financial Advisory Group and negotiate Articles 39 to 67. Here too, Mr Müller will act as a kind of special rapporteur. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6312	Mr President. On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 39 to 67 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report in 95 of the Supplements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6331	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his request. I do not need to repeat the speaking times for today's day. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6358	Mr President. High house! Since Aristotle, we have known the division of violence as a principle under which our constitutional systems are built. Our constitutional system, the High House, ladies and gentlemen, also knows a certain supremacy of the National Council towards the Federal Government. In reality – and this is probably unquestionably in literature – the government of course dominates Parliament. Heinz Fischer himself, in the "Handbuch der Politische Systeme Österreichs" (Handbuch der Politische Systeme Österreichs), has praised the fact that in recent years a trend has been observed, according to which the weight of the National Council against the other institutions – here he has probably primarily meant the Federal Government – is gaining independence. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we have experienced and experienced in recent weeks is the opposite of what Heinz Fischer described in the manual. The budgetary sovereignty of the National Council, set out in the Constitution, is reduced to a sham. Parliament is being disillusioned into a voting machine in which this Parliament has only more to understand what the Federal Government and, in particular, some of the officials of this red and black united party in the silent chamber have long since scrambled out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Manfried Welan therefore correctly stated: The federal legislation – which also includes the budget, which is adopted in the form of a federal financial law – is the case of the Federal Government. You, not the People's Office, chooses the issues that are regulated by law. You, not Parliament, is acting as an initiative. It, not the legislative body, sets out the legislative problems in terms of content and formulates them in detail through the ministerial bureaucracy, i.e. through that area of administration that has to carry out the laws. She's the legislator. In fact, Parliament is only more involved in the legislation. – End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few weeks, we have seen that this Parliament must not even take part in the fact that this Parliament is nothing more than the stage for formal compliance with the constitutional provisions on which the government can decide on its budget invariably, ladies and gentlemen – and unfortunately this is also noted by our President-in-Office of Parliament. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Parliamentaryism has been killed in Austria in recent weeks by saying and writing 22.4 kilograms of government paper. High house! On the other hand, in this House there is an opposition fraction by abstinence and the other factions by protesting the Wehr. The protest of the National Council can no longer be expressed, because the government groups have made themselves the government's extended arm and the Federal Government's compliments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, what we had to experience is a cold elimination of Parliament, as Anneliese Rohr has described in the press and correctly. Anneliese Rohr writes – I quote –: "For the Husch-Fuch-Art, in which 98 laws including several constitutional provisions and two budgets have been treated and are being dealt with, is a particular scandal for democracy policy." – And by the way: "Don't you want to dramatize? What, though, if you think of this cold elimination of Parliament by a government to the end?" Ladies and gentlemen! Cold elimination of Parliament by a federal government with the help of two government groups and their parliamentarians, who only dare to protest behind them, against what the Austrian Federal Government has to say with the 1986 and 1987 budgets and with the lex utitiva. [[Abg. Auer: 1996 and 1997!]] Excuse me, 1996 and 1997. I've only once seen if you're really careful. [[Abg. Auer: Unfortunately!]] I welcome the fact that you are following my speech, at least in terms of content. The budget decision for 1996 and 1997 is a scandal special. Anneliese Rohner is right when she says that this is the "cold elimination of parliamentarianism in Austria"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! This cold decommissioning is carried out precisely by those who always point to a particular group with the long finger and with the help of certain colored scientists, with the claim against better knowledge and therefore incorrect claim, another political group, an opposition group would think of reducing the rights of the House. In fact, the government, with its complicity from the banks of the two government parties or the one-party government party, has long been degrading this Parliament into a voting machine. High house! How did the budget for 1996 and 1997 begin? – In September 1995, the two government parties did not agree on how budgetary policy should continue. At the time, the Economic and Social Committee still presented the budget as a direction dispute and showed that the SPÖ had supposedly planned loads of 30 billion schillings, which were unbearable, and the ÖVP had only been burdened by 18 billion schillings. This was sent to countless members of the Economic Federation. We now recognize that the loads that have been presented to Parliament today following the bird-free method - I have already suspected that the greens have distributed bird feed - are a multiple of what should have led to the break-up of the coalition in 1995. At the time, this meant that we were talking about the reorganisation of the budget, then the structures would have to be changed, and only then, if additional taxes were still necessary, would any changes in the tax laws be necessary. High house! Today this looks exactly the opposite: We have around 79.9 billion schilling, about 55 percent of additional burdens, and there are only 66.7 billion on the revenue side, i.e. about 45 percent of savings. The conditions have turned around. The Austrian People's Party is playing today, pretending to be the yellow of the egg, the Ultima ratio of Austrian financial policy, and thus betraying everyone again – I emphasize: everyone! – Election promises, which they made before the 17th century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! The burden losers are numerous, and they also belong to your electorate. The farmers, the traders will lose due to your load package, the home and home owners will lose through your load package, the builders will lose through you, overtime providers, the voluntary workers of the country will lose through you. Tourism will lose through you. The drinking tax against which you collect signatures, ladies and gentlemen of the Economic Federation, will not be affected. In this context, the representatives of the Economic and Social Union shall vote unanimously in favour of further burden measures, which are also taken by tourism. And ultimately, and very serious, the families will lose. And they won't have anything from the bird food you distributed here today. The families are one of the most massive losers, as are the disabled people in this country, whose countless letters of protest are only trying, with their own paper, to counter the government's attempt to defeat government with government paper, which is currently in the National Council clubs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Innumerable people in this country express their protest at least in writing, because not everyone in Austria wants to make protests like the students. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has been wasting years. Now citizens have to save for it. This is the saving philosophy of this Minister of Finance and the Federal Government. This is a sparity philosophy that the Austrian People's Party has supposedly rejected before the last national elections. But this is now the "overpass mentality": People are being put in a bag, with massive burdens, the citizen is asked to check for the failure of a federal government, how this cannot be more clearly expressed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! The Federal Chancellor himself has a spectacular letter to all pensioners in Austria – one is still puzzled today, how he could come to the address material, probably only under abuse of the Data Protection Act... [[Abg. May. Ederer: (laughing) What?]] You think that's funny? Then explain to the astounded Austrians, explain to the pensioners in Austria, like a party organization that you still represented as the Federal Managing Director, comes to the confidential address material of all pensioners in Austria, including those pensioners who do not value being lulled by the Federal Chancellor with a letter. [[Abg. May. Ederer: Still!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have no idea!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For nothing else is it, in the end, when the Federal Chancellor beautifully promises that he does not plan a reduction in pensions, but we have to take note today that pensioners are among the real losers of this Republic. What else is it if the Federal Chancellor says that safe jobs are the best guarantee that pensions will continue to be secured in the future, but at the same time that the Federal Government must be responsible for the fact that we currently have 300,000 unemployed in Austria and thus have to deal with a new negative record in unemployment statistics in Austria? The Federal Government is doing nothing but producing paper and bringing Parliament's participation and co-determination rights to this paper. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! That would be a reason for every political group and for every individual Member here in the Chamber to take a stand against it, not to let it be offered. – Instead of that, we have had to experience in the committee how this Husch-pusch budget, like this Husch-pusch-Action, has been given by numerous amendments tabled by the government at the last moment, by incompetence, by common places, by the members of the Federal Government who should have provided information, even more perverted by Filibusters from the ministerial bank than by the kilos on paper. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What we need to note today is, as Anneliese Rohrer correctly said, not only abuse, not only cold elimination of Parliament, but ultimately a violation of all the budgetary principles set out in our Constitution. It is massively infringed by the principle of one-year-oldness. – But we want to check that out to the government. After the kudelmuddel you produced last year, nothing else is left. It violates the principle of completeness. Whoever has seen the government shudder around in Parliament, how individual ministers had to correct figures at the last moment, how to take away a little bit in the construction of housing, because one did not know how to cover other positions that have suddenly appeared, who has seen all of this, knows that the principle of completeness of the budget and the principle of budgetary truth, Mr Minister, is completely violated. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't know each other!]] The government is in favour of disreputing Parliament. The government is on the verge of turning Parliament off cold. And the government has long made it a common government policy to disregard also the constitutional principles of budgetary policy in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But no one does anything – nor does that man who would have been called from his office to do the most massive resistance to the attempt to eliminate the Parliament's cold: The President of the National Council would also have the task of protecting and defending the rights of the House. But in a statement that could no longer be more effective and willing, the President said nothing more than that this load package, which the officials of the Red and Black Unity Party no longer have to put on, ladies and gentlemen. The President-in-Office of the Council tells us that we have to decide to stop saying that, as a result of our budgetary sovereignty, we are only allowed to take formal note of what the government has supplied to us in the high house after the bird-free or dying method, just like the green corn-colds today. Ladies and gentlemen! I prefer every single corn-cold from here to the 24 kilos of paper that the government has told us – with the approval and approval of the President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, who sees no problem in it – and I regret that – how Parliament is put off and disregarded coldly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I already mentioned it: The debate in the Committee could no longer be more substantial. The aim of the inconsistencies was only to allow the opposition to be debated sufficiently in the Committee as well. The Ministry of the Filibusters was set up to exploit the earlier fixed time budgets in such a way that the opposition had hardly any opportunity to actually request answers. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this has led to the creation of the budget for the first time to an annoyed ritual for the government, to an annoying ritual for red and black, where it is only possible to hold the form, because it unfortunately imposes the Constitution, but also makes a one-time voting folklore out of this budget creation. – For more, my Ladies and gentlemen, High House, it's not what you offer us here! [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] Voice folklore brand "Musikantenstadl"! What you agree with Parliament belongs to Mr Moik. You can make that up with Mr Moik, but not with this House. We liberals are firmly opposed to it! [[Accompaniment with the liberals as well as acclaim of the abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] With this procedure – not for the first time, but in a unique dimension – one has deprived of the legislative and budgetary sovereignty of its material substrate by imposing on Parliament the requirement that Jota should no longer be changed, in order to carry out the decision-making for the government in the voting machine Parliament in the government mandate. High house! It has never become clearer... [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is our government!]] That you don't care, we know; that's clear. Budget policy is also nothing you can sell in your Waldviertler Wirtshaus. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: An arrogance!]] There you go, take the corn pistons. You better sell that. Obviously you have nothing to do with budget policy. With the protection of the rights of this House, you seem to be very thin at all, Mr Parnigoni. You only know one thing: If the shark is for that, then I have to be against it, and if the shark is against it, then I have to be for it in any case – whether it is a murky or not. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You overestimate that! The shark isn't that important either!]] This is the "intellectuality" of Mr Parnigoni. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Parnigoni, if you can still do so, perhaps you will be critical. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: There he goes into emptiness, the Parnigoni!]] I have at least entrusted him with the rest of the substance, ladies and gentlemen. But I take note of it: My group believes that there are not even residues of substance. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Never before has the harmfulness of the democratic political unnatural merger of the two parties SPÖ and ÖVP been more evident than in this budget creation. As this merger, this democratic and unnatural union is degrading Parliament to a government voting instrument, to a voting machine, to a stage for a "musical stage", which, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been very often held in this Republic. The government has achieved a new "quality" of threat. However, this merger is unnaturally unnatural for those, especially foreign, observers of our political scene, who do not know the Austrian People's Party. For he who knows the Austrian People's Party as I know it knows it knows that the SPÖ cannot find a more willing partner in this House and in this Republic than that Austrian People's Party that already falls over before it even demanded the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! And this will be more than clear in the creation of the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! An opposition group has decided to withdraw from the committees and to refuse to discuss, out of an understandable emotional excitement about the use which the government is making of itself to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum! I have great understanding for your practice. The abstinence, however, has only very rarely been achieved according to the political dictionary of 1885. It has been successful in Hungary and has led to an "equilibrium". It has been successful for the Czech Republic and has led to the recognition of its most important demands. It is, however, – and this has been seen – indifferent to the powerful when it is "excessed" – under quotations – to comply with the Constitution and the constitutional principles. This was something that the public and, unfortunately, your group, as well as mine, had to take note of. I therefore urge you not only to do so in respect of the observance of formal and material constitutional principles, but also, as already expressed in the political dictionary of 1885, if millions are to be donated annually to a powerful Clique. It would guarantee you the undivided consent of the entire population for your abstinence. It's already recognized in 1885, Hohes Haus! If I look at how you manage press promotion, it can be seen that you do not end with the distribution of twenty million of powerful cliques. Also in the field of cultural promotion, you will continue to use your powerful cliques in the future. If you agree with us in terms of content against the falsified budgetary policy of the Federal Government, where there is little protection, but the mass gets into the pockets, I guarantee you that we will be more successful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, it has been shown that the abstinence and the exodus, as well as the refusal to discuss, are a protest, but are ultimately an expression of a certain helpless powerlessness. What remains is the mourning over the beaten parliamentaryism, a grief... [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Ellwall.]] That's what you find up there laughing? How long have you been in Parliament? How long have you been a parliamentarian? You'll find that laughing! Parliamentaryism is being destroyed, and the EIA is still laughing! She doesn't just fall down, she thinks that's funny! You should consider why you're sitting in here! You should consider why you are cashing a decent, a stately salary. You should consider who you are here to represent: Not the government, but the people have to represent you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are aware of this, then you will suffer from humor, Mr President, whose name is unknown to me. [[Abg. Marizzi: Principal Teacher!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, now you need to be careful, now it will be important for you again! We call for the vote on constitutional provisions which constitute a abuse of the Constitution, since the Constitutional Court's control of the Constitutional Court is impracticable by means of a Constitutional Survey, on these attacks that you are planning to create, namely, Constitutional provisions which are democratically and legally unbearable, about passages in which your own party friend or comrade – I do not know what you are talking about – your colleague Ditz, who is sitting next to you, threatens to go to the Constitutional Court if he is realized what you have negotiated jointly behind thickly padded doors. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We demand that these passages be coordinated separately, in particular. This time we want to know exactly who is involved in the breach of the Constitution, who is involved in the breach of the rule of law in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, the High House! In any event, in the coming days, our liberals will express our protest against the cold elimination of Parliament with a massiveity that will probably lead you to more often in the coming years and will need to draw lessons from it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6658	I call Mrs Ederer. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e6680	Mr President. My two Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Stadler! The first point I wanted to discuss was that you said in your speech that the Social Democrats had written to the pensioners in the election campaign, and you still didn't know exactly where we had these addresses. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about the 1 000 S?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: They were requested!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the 1 000 S?]] Mr Haigermoser! I have a single request: I have listened to Mr Stadler – I do not know how long he has spoken – completely quietly, I did not interrupt him, I did not cry into his speech, and I would like to talk to him about a few questions – not with you if it is right. If that is not possible, I must stop this discourse. [[Abg. Haigermoser: May I also listen?]] You can listen, but don't say anything in the question because I'm not talking to you now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I'm not talking to you! I speak to Mr Stadler and not to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You were in the government too long!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's huge!]] Mr Stadler has said that it is not quite clear to this day where we have these addresses. You are a lawyer, and therefore I do not think it is in order, Mr President, that you are here in a room where the Social Democrats would have been given a bit of a right. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Where are the 1 000 S?]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, that candidate parties have available address material – the electoral list – and that the electorate evidence indicates both age and gender. Claim You no longer ask that the Social Democrats should have put any action on the verge of the law, if you know exactly that this is not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I would like to come to the second point. Mr Stadler, you are saying that Parliament will be demolitioned into a voting machinery. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] They call the Austrian Parliament voting machinery. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I quote!]] I would like to talk to you, Mr Deputies, in peace and quiet, without your explanatory gentlemen in the background almost taking the opportunity to speak – who has more questioned the institution of Parliament in the last ten years: we or your group, who have permanently abused this House – and I have been sitting on the government bank and have been sitting here in these ranks for many years – for day-to-day policy decisions or for strongly populist measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We've never broken the constitution before!]] I have often felt abused at two o'clock at night in this House by you and your group, which I am telling you now as SPÖ Members, because you never take this institution seriously. This is a stage for you to say things that do not vote, as Mr Stadler has said, against better knowledge, and at the same time call into question this whole instrument. That's true. Your interest, Mr Stadler – and nothing else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The next constitutional provisions: stupid, Novotny! That's a joke!]] But I'd like to try to get in... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Where are the promised 1 000 S?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: colleague! Two new constitutional provisions! Just brought in!]] I can also do one thing, I can ask Mr Stadler or you, Mr Haider, to come out again. What do you want? You from me? [[Abg. May. Stadler: You must defend yourself as a parliamentarian!]] Let me tell you again: Among other things, I am opposed to your methods, against the fact that you continue to abuse this House until late into the night for "current" things that have nothing to do with this House at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Be a delegate! Marionette!]] You use this stage to claim the SPÖ break right. That's a joke! They come up with a budget debate and say that SPÖ is breaking right. That's not a misuse of this house? What is it, Mr Stadler? – Absolute, pure abuse of this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I've been annoyed, now we can come back to the important things of this life. Why are we even doing this budget consolidation? Why do we finally do all of this? The point is, ladies and gentlemen, also from the FPÖ, and I would like to add: It is not primarily a question of complying with the Maastricht criteria, nor of introducing a pan-European currency; it is primarily a question of creating or safeguarding scope for the public sector. Why do we need this room? That is where I come back to the Waldviertler Gasthaus, to something you have said to Mr Parnigoni in my opinion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was your division at Haider! We've just quoted Ederer in relation to Haider!]] We need the budget and the scope, ladies and gentlemen, not from jux and tollery, but primarily to make state activities possible and, above all, to help more socially vulnerable. The social force does not need state activities, but it can help itself. The social weakness needs state aid, and therefore it is about keeping budget debt in such a way that, in the end, there is always a functioning state. We need this in order to be able to act, we need it in order to make policy and, above all, to be able to help more socially weak. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is also a question of being able to join a common monetary union – I believe that this should be discussed in another matter. Austria is a hard currency country. We are interested in preventing, in the future, other countries with which we are in very strong competition, with which we also have economic relations, for example, from being able to achieve competitive advantages relatively quickly by applying the instrument of depreciation. It is a question of finding a common currency and of being able to contribute to it as a single country. The second central question raised in this context is: What do the distribution effects of this savings package look like? Is this savings package fair? If fiscal consolidation were to take place only on the expenditure side, this would certainly be very unfair because in this case substantial savings in the social and pension sectors would have been necessary. Above all, we Socialists have succeeded and it has been important to show that there is a balanced budget consolidation that a mix of expenditure and revenue measures is necessary in order to ultimately find a positive solution. If we look at this mix of expenditure and revenue, we can see that there are certain structural problems in expenditure. There is, for example, the rapidly growing field of public service. We should also have a serious debate on the role of the House, which we should all take very seriously, in the area of costs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Cold shutdown", writes Anneliese Rohner!]] We all have very strong the desire and longing to regulate everything very strong, very precise. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Legal housework!]] I'd write it like this: We want to regulate everything as much as when two meters of snow fell in August. This is the problem because we are all constantly confronted with these extreme cases, where there is no regulation. These strict regulations, however, mean that we need a lot of employees to do this on the one hand and to control it on the other. It is, I believe, the central problem to come to a reasonable mixture so that it does not become too expensive. The more you regulate, the more expensive it becomes. The last 10 percent, I think, are the most expensive in regulation. That's the one area. The second area I would like to raise is the question of revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Members who have turned into puppets!]] It is indisputable that everyone and everyone is affected by this package of savings. Now, in the discussion, there is the mistake of thinking that from some point of view, server servants are equally taxable. There is a table that inspires in Austria. The fact is that this table is based only on tariffs, but not on the fact that other measures in this savings package are also affected. For example, server servants claim much more loss depreciation than average earnings. That's just the way it is. If one now abolishes the loss depreciation, then the main thing is to meet the server operators and let this curve appear in a different light. Finally, it can be said that a savings pact of 100 billion schilling naturally poses problems that the consolidation cannot be painless. That would in itself be the hour of the opposition. I believe, however, that the great vortex and excitement at the beginning of my speech are a sign that this is not the hour of opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (a 1 000 s-shine in height) Where are the 1 000 s, Mrs Colleague?]] You can bring it out and give it to me. Do you want to give it to me? [[Abg. May. Stadler: 1 000 s of monthly savings you promised!]] We are not discussing the European Union today, but rather that it is not the hour of the opposition – and this, Mr Haider, is hurting. It hurts, 17th. Losing December, but you mean the reds and the blacks won't make the savings package. It hurts that they can do it, without great strikes in this country. But the opposition nevertheless does not profit from it. That hurts. I understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't turn off!]] I know your pain. I'm a politician. Just stay out and live out the pain, maybe lie You then lessen the public, what you usually do again and again. Last point: I believe that this package of savings is important and necessary in order to ultimately lay the foundation. I believe that the savings package is only the prerequisite for a policy that we must make in the next few years. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's how it goes?]] In my opinion, these two coalition parties will have a very central task in the coming years, namely employment policy and the fight against unemployment. This savings package provides the basis for this. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you really believe what you're telling us?]] I therefore believe that we should also give our support to this package of savings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7081	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. He's got the floor. Speaking time not more than 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7111	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! If I had brought you the bulk of paper, Mr Federal Minister, he would have even gotten a little higher. Although I have not considered it, it has not become better – and that is the decisive – quality. This should have been the case as a result of the Committee's deliberations. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! I'm going to deal with why we weren't there. Mr President, Mr Fischer has rightly pointed out that we Liberals have agreed to this roadmap of committee deliberations and plenary debates, as have all other opposition parties. That's right. Ladies and gentlemen! But, of course, this cannot be interpreted as if we had issued a free letter, according to the motto: Because we have agreed, everything is included, so to speak, and now you can do what you want. – No, that’s not how this consent was understood! We have agreed in the expectation that the coalition parties will be prepared first-class, conscious of their state-bearing responsibility, will provide us with work documents which we can also read if we strive to do so, Mr Federal Minister, without having to contribute to an army of helpers and helpers. But it didn't work like that. Anyone who was in the Committee's deliberations – and I was there long enough to judge this – had to realize that no quality work was done. You too, Dr. Stumbling, will probably stand in the silent chamber yourself, though not here and today. I have had many talks with here present and sworn mandaters, and everyone has said the same, all of them have complained about this procedure. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just the Novotny not!]] Now I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in an emergency situation. We also said it was an emergency package. And in particular, we have spoken against the label gap, with which we are trying to communicate, so to speak: It is not need, but well thought out, well thought out, structure, directed to the future, the foundation. – For God's sake, if that is the foundation, then poor Republic! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! They didn't make it easy for us either. They have caused us obstacles that would not have been necessary. Now I am not talking about the psychological moment of simply being stupid when you go to a committee if several ministers and the Federal Chancellor have previously explained that nothing will be changed, nothing at all, and that publicly, about the media. Yes, what do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of self-esteem do we have, ladies and gentlemen? – None at all, because otherwise you can't let us be guided by the media, we can sit there, we can "consult" – under quotation marks – but nothing is changed. And you can do that. You're so often surprised by saying: don't strap or: It is like a brick wall, you must not endanger the whole thing by pulling out a single stone. That's not how it is! Mr President, I should like to thank In addition, they have tabled amendments to one and the same facts whose content has contradicted. At least they changed names, thank God, otherwise we would not have been able to do so at all. Once: Reitsamer, Feurstein, once: Mühlbachler, Gartlehner and then again on the same subject a proposal for amendment by the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! There can no longer be talk of serious work, and you know it very well! Ladies and gentlemen! We would have endured all of this, I would say, even though it's tough, but anyway, if you hadn't made a highlight of the whole thing. You have introduced your "beautiful light" as a structural improvement law component, namely the Federal Ministry Act. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is no longer possible or no longer desirable to debate such a large measure, such a fundamental change in our public administration in a committee of our own and in a budget debate, you must note that we have been able to feel strange and only feel strange and have therefore taken the only meaningful consequence. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The editorial in the "Press" has already been quoted today, but not completely, and I have something to do here. It means in that – I quote –: "SPÖ and ÖVP have maneuvered the country into a situation in which it is almost indifferent, which is decided, main thing it will become. That means: Any actions are already a value in themselves, without their quality being checked and critically questioned." – This is what we have to say here. "The Members of this House will have their own insignificance, and the public will be given the powerlessness of the legislative system." – That’s what we want to say here. I regret that I must agree with the conclusion in this article. It says here: "But if someone really wanted to break the whole system in a critical situation in the future, the parliamentary backbone would already be broken. It is already grotesque that SPÖ and ÖVP do not stand up for these dangers." Ladies and gentlemen! This is the situation that we have been clearly faced in the last 14 days. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Ederer! I think it is unacceptable to simply record parliamentary abuse with another parliamentary abuse. It can't be that way. You cannot go here and say that we have abused Parliament and we have flawed the Constitution, but others have already done so before us. – I would like to ask you to consider this point of view. I believe that the mutual calculation is not good in human and also in parliamentary relations. You, we, each of us, have the task of acting after our oath. The defence formula is clear, and therefore our task should be clear. It does not include agreeing to a narrowing of parliamentary practices and the constitutional role of Parliament, to tolerate them, or to detract from them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There would be much to say about the content of the Structural Adjustment Act. I would like to congratulate you on the individual debates; we will comment on each point. Federal Minister of Climate! You can assume that our opinions will include a number of those knowledge which we could have gained in the Committee's deliberations. For there we could not have gained any knowledge at all, these were not consultations, but that, ladies and gentlemen, was really a farce that has already been mentioned so often. But I would like to take a few things out of my mind, and that is because Mrs Ederer has pointed this out. Why do we do that?, she asked. – Because of the social needs for the future. Believe me, Mrs. Ederer: The principle of foundry cans in the distribution and the lawn mower in the short term is not a category of social policy. That's not going to happen, and so you won't be able to deal with the emerging problems that we see as well as you. It is not a category and not a solution approach to introduce a minimum-cost and to proclaim business start-ups. I do not think that it is a good thing to be able to talk about the investment exemption, so to speak, of a stimulant. We know that this instrument is dull. We believe that it is not possible for us to punish overtime and old age benefits, so to speak. These are not the right approaches. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, we would still understand. We would, as opposition, make it critical and recognizable as not our own political opinion, but not anymore. But what we really want to say and, as I hope, not too late is: This Parliament should not adopt retroactive laws. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an issue that is so serious, and I believe that the consequences will be so serious, and they will be so addressed in the future that I call on you all to really try to bring about a change during this plenary session. I believe that, Mr Federal Minister, you and your colleagues also know about this danger. Otherwise, it would be impossible to explain that you are, as it were, fleeing into the protection of the Constitution. And if you do not believe the opposition and if you do not already appreciate it, I would ask you to note that the financial law professors of this Republic have sent an open letter to President Dr Fischer, in which they write: "We call on all the forces involved in the legislative process to oppose the merely fiscally justified use of constitutional provisions to immunise inaccurate, even partly arbitrary, tax standards against constitutional review." – We Liberals join this appeal! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But if all of this is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, and if it is not yet explained how the government coalition is dealing with this delicate issue, I would like to point out that there is a law in all this wealth of laws – and this is also a highly criticised and criticised by us – by which provisions the typical jobs of the future – so to speak, Vranitzky – should now be made impossible or difficult by means of atypical taxation. If we already agree to social security obligations in the case of service contracts or contracts of work, we must note that, without consultation in the committees, only a derogation for newspaper colporteurs will be included in the final vote, because Mr Digand has asked for this in a letter, then I must say: In view of this process, it drives the shame in your face, ladies and gentlemen. I can't do that. Yours Be serious! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They present dozens of professional groups and industries with this law with serious problems, in part with problems threatening existence. If you now make a kneefall and decide an exception for Mr. Digand and the media print and the "Kronen Zeitung", then I think this is a process that simply makes senseless and ultimately speechless. They should be ashamed of that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Ederer! They said we needed a foundation and a margin. Then, I must say, other measures must be taken; we have often debated them, and I would like to remind them again. Structural reforms cannot be effectively implemented in the media and not in the social partners, because that is the prelude. The flexibilization of working hours is now the main topic. I remember very well that Mr Ditz said over a year ago: Now we're going to flexible! At that time it was only about the shop opening times. – After three weeks, the agenda has been unsuccessfully removed from the agenda. The debate on the flexibility of working hours is now under way. But, ladies and gentlemen, we should discuss this. We parliamentarians should discuss these reform approaches and should formulate the mutual views and the good in each case into a reasonable law – not the precursor organisations, not the public and not the press! We should do that! We thus leave a classical parliamentary field to others, forces that cannot deal with it – and we weaken ourselves with it. Minister! We do not find in any of the structural adjustment laws such a thing that we would wish for under the backlog of the state. The Republic continues to want to lead tailors, Schusters, stage designers, collectors and other honorable professions as pragmatic Federal officials. Federal Minister! These are the approaches we would like to take, and you as the minister with cross-sectional competence – I regret that you always get the beatings, but you now have this excellent office, among your colleagues you are certainly the highest due to cross-sectional competence – must ensure it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the occasion of the debate on your budget speech, there was, as you know, a great discussion about the pleite of Austrian social security. Nothing can be found in this Structural Adjustment Act, which could remedy this, which is an improvement, a future solution – at least in the approach! – would offer. Nothing is contained in the fact that we could find out with the insurance obligation and no longer need compulsory insurance in this all-powerful and almost every Austrian function. Nothing can be found in this Structural Adjustment Act, which would only lead to an ecologicalisation of the tax system. The new label issue, namely the sale of fiscal measures as such, must again be rejected, Mr Federal Minister. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Federal Minister! You and your colleagues have often wanted to sell energy taxes and things similar to the greening of the tax system. Only: They are not, because the second essential component is missing, namely the income neutrality and the reduction of other types of taxation. If we have to note today that the Austrian Republic's tax rate will reach an "all-time-high" in 1997, then I have to say, I see little room for the future, namely that margin, which Mrs Ederer has also given as an important reason why we are doing this. She said that we had to create scope to be able to achieve certain desirable social policy or other objectives by means of budget measures or budget resources in the future. – But that’s not going to happen! Federal Minister! You have recently addressed me and told me – I have also believed that you are serious about this – that we now need optimistic entrepreneurs. I share your opinion. After all the tiredness and plag – and despite all the mistakes we recognize that you have tied up an emergency package, political courage is also necessary – a start. We should be able to say: Now we've done it, and now it's a little easier. But I regret to have to tell you that nothing in this structural adjustment law can put me personally and many of my colleagues in this mood. I am not saying this to you as an opposition politician, but I am telling you as an entrepreneur: I do not see this as the decisive obstacle we have taken. Unfortunately, I see this as the beginning of an even more rocky path, but we must go. Federal Minister! Now I have to make an accusation to you, which I have already made: I think you are raising false and unfulfilled hopes in our population. They give the population the feeling that this savings package would solve the problems. But that's not the case! This package of savings has been the most necessary way to avoid having to deal directly with disastrous consequences. That's what you did. But nothing has been done that could lead an entrepreneur or other citizen of this country to optimism and to another future expectation. I would ask you, the government groups, therefore, very, not only to do your duty and guilt here in the budget deliberations in plenary, but also afterward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7239	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – The speaking time is set to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7260	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a very open and honest confession to the remarks made by my previous speakers: This package we are discussing today does not solve all the problems of our country for all time. No one claimed that either. Let us not pretend that we can now solve the problems of an entire legislative period with this package, which is necessary and correct! We do not intend to solve all the problems now and then lock up Parliament for four years. – But: This package is an important step towards ensuring the future of our country. The representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, the social partners and the large majority of the population are involved in this package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr President, there is no way you can change intermediate calls on your part. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Although we are discussing today only the financial part of the Structural Adjustment Act in accordance with the agenda, I do not think we should forget the view of the whole. What do I mean by that? I mean that the financial part of the Structural Adjustment Act is from the sizes of the smaller part – I say: I am pleased to say that the smaller part of the Structural Adjustment Act is. This part brings about a third of the need for consolidation. However, two thirds of the expenditure on the part of the other parts of the Structural Adjustment Act will be applied. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would say again that we will be discussing, not today, but in the next few days, where we are putting expenditure on the side and making a policy of scarcity of the financial resources, which will trigger the greatest shift in reform in the history of the Second Republic, because only the pressure of scarce money will help implement the corresponding reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! I like to admit – I'm used to not seeing things through the pink glasses –: We have two key problems in this country: First of all, an exaggerating state apparatus – 21 out of 100 people in employment are public servants, and 60 percent of net tax revenue goes into staff expenditure – and second, the problem that we have distributed too much for years, but we cannot work out at all. That is exactly where the Structural Adjustment Act applies. As you know, in those chapters we will be discussing in the next few days, there will be decisive measures in the state apparatus so that the state apparatus will become slimmer. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Where?]] 11 000 posts are saved – under pressure from the scarce money, Mr. Hazelsteiner! Just as in every company, the pressure of scarce money will be greatly facilitated by the corresponding reforms. We also take measures in the social field, in the field of distribution, because we want to secure the overall system. In a world where everything is in motion, we must not believe that the social system must not be changed. We need to redesign in order to preserve social security as a whole. But all of this is not happening in those parts that we are discussing today. Today we are discussing the financial part of this package. Now I'd like to admit, ladies and gentlemen – and that's what I'd like to say again: I would like a lot of money on the part of this package. I would like to admit that I do not at all like some individual provisions. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: For example?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am of the opinion of Mrs Ederer, who said that this would have been the hour of the opposition, because if you only discuss this package on a punctual basis, of course some points for the opposition are already an 11 meter imposed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Vote against if you are against it!]] But you can not only discuss the package on time, my dear friend, but you must discuss it from the overall responsibility for the future of this country. You still haven't understood that! You can't have a punctual discussion there. It is very easy, Mr Haider, to criticise these or those individual measures, perhaps to make them ridiculous, to speak out grumblingly about them. But for us is higher than the political small money, for us is higher than the party hack the overall well-being, the future of this country. This is the difference between party policy and state policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This package is about four very important things, and you simply have to say that, even if you are not satisfied with individual details. The first concerns the economic future of our country; I think that is undisputed. Secondly, it is about safeguarding jobs and about Austria's economic location. Thirdly, it is about the stability of the country, about the stability of the currency, about hard shilling. Fourthly, it is a political-moral responsibility for young people and also for old people. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Youth unemployment is increasing!]] It would be irresponsible for young people to consume and distribute today, Mr Haider, and to put their debts on the young. And it would be irresponsible for old people not to make sure that their pensions are secured. Ladies and gentlemen! These objectives serve this package: the stability of the country, the stability of jobs, the security of the future for young people, the safeguarding of pensions. These are the concerns of this package! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't believe that!]] This overall responsibility, this overall concept of future security, is faced with – I like to admit – a series of criticisms on details, on individual provisions. The opinions of the last few weeks on this savings package clearly give rise to a division: All those who represent individual interests criticize in a kind of caster's thinking exactly that point they do not like. But all those who bear total responsibility say: On the whole, we say yes to this package! – Whether this is the social partners or the national bank, whether it is the majority of the population, whether it is the EU, everyone who bears the overall responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Drink tax is "castle thinking" according to your philosophy!]] The question of drinking tax has not yet been resolved. We don't solve all the problems today. We do not solve all the problems today, but very important problems for future security, Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're doing a signature action, but that's what you're voting against!]] You can still do so according to calls, so the content of your argumentation will be nothing better. – It stands to reason against overall responsibility and future security! Ladies and gentlemen! Just because I have not made it easy for myself personally, we have almost reached the beginning of the session for forward-looking solutions. That is why the request I am now being read has been made so late. In order to meet the objectives of securing the economic location of Austria, to strengthen confidence in the country, to safeguard competitiveness, we have reached a final conclusion. We have, after all, made six of the original 31 constitutional provisions and now seven of them. Instead of 31 seven Constitutional provisions! One must also say very clearly: I have the impression that some speakers have not recognized what the Constitutional provisions are about. They do not apply in the field of corporate tax law as regards material content, which remains as it is, the Constitution merely guarantees entry into force or the time-limit. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The feedback!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] It is not concerned with the material content, Mr Kier. That's an essential difference! They claim here that we are slightly changing the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Retrospective tax laws are an impotent!]] These are necessary measures based on the case law of the Constitutional Court. As a general rule, the public interest has priority over the other considerations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: The great coalition needs a constitutional control! That's not good!]] Mr. Freisenschlager! The same applies to you, as I said to Mr Haider: The louder you call, the less your arguments come. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: You say the untruth!]] I have the impression that what Mrs Ederer said is right: Because you notice that it is not the hour of opposition, try here to create scratch. But this is not a future solution, Mr Colleague – that is party hack, something the population does not want! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: For you it is party hack when the Constitutional Court is kept away from its tasks!]] Mr. Freisenschlager! I do not want to hold you back from your style, because your style will help you to have even fewer mandates next time. Stay with your style! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Constitutional hallucination is for you party hack!]] Her present behavior is the parade example of party hack. However, we are trying to bear political responsibility. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Too comfortable to work in committee, but talk here!]] That's it, exactly! You have been expelled from the Committee, yes. Ladies and gentlemen!. I would like to admit – even today – that what we decide here is not only a political one, but also a parliamentary one, of course. We are in an exceptional situation – not at all a question – but we believe that we can be responsible for the future of this country, for safeguarding jobs, pensions, and the economic location of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is a brutal approach, not a power act!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need this structural programme or this savings package to have scope for offensive measures in the coming years – research, development, innovation, export, technology. This package also creates the financial room we need to be able to shape the future of our country accordingly in the next few years. For the purpose of this objective, I should like to make an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: A constitutional decree again!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Your call: "Soon again a constitutional provision!" is the best proof that you have not even read it. Here says "constitution" because the whole section is already a constitutional provision. This call was a classic abdominal patch, a classic flop! If you had been to the committee, you would have known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7611	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Speech time: 30 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Amendment proposal!]] – I have already announced that, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You said the motion for a resolution!]] [[Abg. Wabl: Was the application in committee or not?]] So that no misunderstanding can happen: The request of Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny, on the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template of a 1996 Structural Adjustment Act has two more signatures than are necessary for submission. He is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiations. [[Abg. Wabl: Has he been filed as an application or was he in committee?]] It has now been introduced at second reading within the meaning of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Professor Van der Bellen. The Presidency is now taking over Mr. Dr. Neisser.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7700	Deputies! You can start.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7721	Thank you, Mr President. Before this more assumes the character of a turn hour, whether it has become a abdominal spot or not – I don't know who it is – I start with my speech contribution. For I already see a little bit the tendency of the government parties to claim the welfare of the state for themselves. Mr. Dr. stupid, it can't be that simple! I take it from you that you are subjectively convinced: That was the best possible under the given circumstances. You don't like much either, I'll take it from you. But it cannot be said that anyone who now criticizes it or even in various details is highly stylized to the enemy of the state. You can't mean that! It is simply a legitimate right of opposition to criticize. In addition, I believe, one can be different views on different points of view for various reasons. That is why you do not have the monopoly to represent the welfare of the state, and should not be highly stylized as enemies of the state. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] But even if you were to have a large amount of modo in terms of content, you would think that this budget package – I avoid the word "sparpackage" – is essential in this or similar form in general, you should already ask: Why has it become necessary now? Does that have any background? Has the need fallen from heaven? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: All numbers are in there! That's all mentioned!]] The background is stupid in the years 1993 to 1995, Mr. Cot! This is one of the problems: If you hadn't wasted the year 1995 with various internal intrigues within the government parties, summer and autumn would not have been lost, then the time pressure and the whole mess we now have wouldn't have come about at all. It is in your responsibility that it has come so far! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most positive thing, if you want to do so, is to take the budget deficit seriously now, as far as you can see. I'm not denying that. I also see this positively. In order to stabilise the debt ratio, a primary surplus will be necessary. A primary surplus is likely to be achieved in 1997 if the data are kept in some way, and it will be necessary in the years thereafter. It should be done with the devil – that is the second positive in this package – if the current account deficit were not to be indirectly reduced by these measures. I have now expressed myself very carefully: It's got to go with the devil and so on. – This is a purely qualitative statement, because you can say relatively little to the quantitative. Whether the deficits will occur in 1996 and 1997 or something else, you do not know that, and we are not quite sure of the opposition. We must say this clearly once and for all. Apart from that, our confidence in the forecasts of the government parties has, of course, been greatly shaken. I can recall that last year I said here from the speaker's desk that the 1995 deficit could hold a large part of it. My I haven't been so wrong for a lifetime. I have relied on the fact that this is quite true of what you are telling us here, and that the data contained in the 1995 budget is quite plausible. And what happened? – The Maastricht deficit has exploded from 4.5 per cent within a few months, as stated in the Convergence Programme and the Budget Programme in May, to 6.1 per cent. Do you know what that matters? 1.6%, that's about 37 billion schilling within a few months! Right, the countries and municipalities. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Through the countries and communities!]] But this does not change the fact that you have specified this data – not you personally in this case, you are still out of the tailor – in the convergence program. We therefore do not know how 1998 will continue to see if there will be a similar package. If you look at the dynamics and go on – last year 45 laws were in the structural support programme, this is 98 – it will be perhaps 150 at this growth rate. I hope that will not happen. Something's going to have to happen. You should say that to the population soon. This structural adjustment law contains a number of one-off effects. These are stories in corporate tax, the suspension of the loss lectures, the tax-effective preference of restitution solutions, the support of free money and so on. I don't go into it in detail now. In the social field too, there are a number of such one-time effects, from the non-valorization of the care allowance to the pensions. That won't be forever. In 1998 and the following years, if this government still exists, you will have to introduce something new. Many have pointed out that at this pace of so-called consolidation, this programme is tailored to monetary union or, more specifically, to the Maastricht criteria. That's right, of course. It is indisputable that it is tailored to the convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty and to the timetable there. I do not follow from the fact that monetary union is to be postponed. Ceterum censeo: I think that monetary union should be done better, the better. Because if it is postponed, we will have this theatre and these framework conditions for budgetary policy, we will have this circus of budget restrictions ad infinitum. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I already have in my last statement on Mr Mag's budget speech. The climate suggests that there are not enough structural reforms in these accompanying laws. There are some, that is indisputable, but not enough. I'm not going to repeat that again now. I just call you the headlines: Administrative reform, budgetary law, parliamentary budgetary process, financial compensation reform, housing, hospitals, health care, pension reform, and finally, as a relatively small area, with amazing how little is happening, preventive and follow-up measures in the area of transport. Mr. Dr. Stumvoll has appealed to us not to criticize the details too much. He's right! As you can see, the ranks are relatively empty, apart from some school classes that are condemned to listen to this once. I have rarely seen the interest in the first two hours of a budget debate. The train has left – each one of us knows that. I would also say: Decide the whole thing! Don't pretend there's still a lot to change! You will find some amendment in the next ten days. We cannot prevent this, decide by a majority, we have protested enough! But the steam's outside. So I'm not going to go into detail. But I would like to point out one point: The Achilles farse of this programme is the labour market, the impact on employment. This should give the Social Democrats more thought than they have so far taken note of how I feel. At least for three reasons, this budget programme has negative effects on employment. There are, of course, the classic macroeconomic reasons for the increase in taxes and the reduction of transfers. This is only a vague hope of lower interest rates and their impact on investment. Secondly, the job cancellations in the public sector. Thirdly, the difficulty of early pensions. The last point: There are estimates that the unemployment rate in Austria was approximately two to three percentage points lower due to the high early retirement rate at the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s. There are good reasons for each of these points, taken for themselves. It can be argued, for example, that we have too many posts in the public sector. It may be. But the cumulative work effects of these three measures alone are certainly negative. If you see that, you'll naturally ask yourself: Where are the counter-controlling measures in the budget? Has the government seen the problem? Is she at least trying to do something about it right now and there? – I personally see relatively little. What I see are first of all measures in the field of construction. There is a massive funding programme, although everyone knows that in Austria we already have a very high share of the construction industry in gross domestic product in an international comparison, and we will not be able to do so in the long run. But what else is there? There are second penal provisions in the notice of termination of 50 years. Economic theory says that this will speed up the termination of 49 years old. Did you think about that? Third, the government is increasing the pressure on unemployed people to take up jobs. But will this work if the jobs they are to accept are not available? Will this work if there is no symmetrical pressure on employers to employ these workers as well? Is there, fourthly, at least any comprehensible, large-scale attempts to avoid creating new jobs, so at least the existing work differently to distribute more evenly? This, of course, refers to the word'reduction of working time'. I do not think that the reduction in weekly working time has any meaning. But one might well think – and this is what other countries do in contrast to Austria – through the introduction of Sabbathical, long-term educational vacations and so on to relieve the labour market. There are other countries, especially Denmark, much more than Austria. Fifth, you open a bottle It could also be considered that labour costs should be reduced from the employer's point of view, i.e. not wages, but labour costs. A great opportunity has been missed in connection with energy taxation. Sixteenths: It should be considered that, especially in the lower wage classes, employment could rise if labour costs – once again seen from the employer – decrease somewhat. It could be considered that the social security contributions in the lower wage range should be reduced; for this there must be a counter-funding above. Tag, for example: higher taxation of the 13th. And 14. Monthly salary. Or one could consider a change in the financing of family tax compensation, such as involving self-employed persons or extending to value added, so that the service provider's contribution – this 4.5 percent – could decrease. I can't see any of that in this budget! The fact is that the Wifo prognosis, published 14 days ago, is under the headline: Employment reduction continues, unemployment reaches record levels of 7.3 per cent in 1996 and 8.0 per cent in 1997. I would like to comment briefly on some aspects of taxation. In the field of old load rehabilitation, there are approaches that are not all negative. From a tax point of view, I am most concerned that tax evasion in this area is not really being done. After all, this is about a magnitude of about 1 billion schilling. We have often commented on energy taxation and its non-ecological orientation. I'm saving it now. There is also a different written opinion on the report of the Committee on Budgets. I would just like to point out that the Electricity Tax Act does not make any ecological differentiation according to the type of electricity generation. It does not matter whether the electricity in nuclear power plants – if we had any – is produced from the sun, wind or whatever. However, the coal is still exempt from tax. That is why I am tabling an amendment. I am saving the explanatory statement, which is essentially the promotion of alternative energies. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7822	Mr deputies, you should read the text of the law. As far as I can see, there are two more paragraphs. I'm asking for the reading.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7837	(2) Electricity generators producing the electrical energy from wind power, solar energy, landfill gas, sewage gas, products or biological waste and waste materials of agriculture, forestry or industrial processing of wood are exempt from the tax in so far as they are entitled to the remuneration of the electricity charge to the extent of the quantity of electricity supplied by them to electricity supply undertakings or other third parties. (3) The amount shall be reimbursed per calendar year (economic year) by the person entitled to compensation, which shall be due to the amount referred to in § 4 para. 2 the amount of the charge and the quantity of electrical energy supplied to electricity supply undertakings or other third parties. The application shall contain the quantities of electrical energy supplied to electricity supply undertakings or other third parties. It shall be subject to the condition of remuneration at the latest until the end of five years from the date on which it expires. The application shall be made by decision and the amount of the compensation shall be declared in a sum. The amount of the remuneration shall be paid less a retention of not more than 500 S." On the tax laws: There are many points that I quite agree with. Like my previous speaker, Dr. Hazelsteiner, I feel the most delicate of all the retroactive provisions and the constitutional protection of these provisions. This policy also reflects the insecurity of the government parties: First it was 30, then six, now it's seven and eight again. I am excited how many it will be in ten days if not we, but the government parties have decided. As far as financial compensation is concerned, I can only say that it is essentially a continuation of the old system. Unfortunately, all tax laws are unlimited. I would have preferred to make individual provisions on time, for example a supplement to wage and income tax debt, in order to create a pressure on reforms and force the government to make the structural reforms it announces effective. Today we have received two amendments, one which Mr Dr. Stumbly has already read. Mrs Rosemarie Bauer and Mrs Eleonora Hostasch probably still have a spicy request, in so far as he amends the FAG again, in Article 65, in the section relating to childcare facilities. I wonder what's going on here. In that text, which is available to you, namely in the report of the Committee on Budgets, there is a Commission, in the new proposal as well. The old proposal is represented in this Commission: the Minister of Women – I do not know who else – the Minister of Family... – the Minister of Family, thank you. [[Abg. May. Ederer: The Minister of Family!]] The Commission is the essential element of the proposed amendment of the two rapporteurs, Mr Bauer and Mr Hostasch. In this Commission, however, the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for the Environment and the Family and the Federal Minister for Finance will be, the Minister for Women is not present. Now I'm wondering, Does our Minister of Finance, certainly the most important person among the ministers, have nothing else to do with the allocation of 600 million for childcare facilities to the countries? [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Don't worry! That's where you have to look at the Federal Ministry Act!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In the Federal Ministry Act, the Konrad is in the Federal Chancellery!]] The Federal Chancellor will therefore always be represented by the Minister of Women. Can I see it like that? He's just mentioned. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bundesministeriengesetz!]] And that's worth an amendment? - Okay. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: No, that's not it!]] Let's leave that. Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is already over. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: The government parties themselves have put themselves under enormous time pressure – should be; they have the time pressure to answer, not the opposition. Please decide the laws, but you also understand that we cannot accept them. I say that there is not a Member of Parliament among the 183 who can only understand the impact of 98 budget accompanying laws on the budgets of 1996 and 1997. [[Call to the ÖVP: Ladies and gentlemen Novotny already!]] Is that what Mr Novotny has been saying? This is a joke, Mr President. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7955	The Federal Minister for Finance has spoken. Climate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the selected amendment is sufficiently supported and involved in the treatment. Please, Mr Minister, now you are at the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e7982	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I asked for two things from this place in my budget speech: First of all, I asked for an understanding of the fact that, not only in the national and international media, but also in the knowledge of Austrian citizens, we already have a very exceptional situation, as budgets for the years 1996 and 1997 and, at the same time, a financial compensation for four years, as well as a wide range of structural adjustment laws, and this, ladies and gentlemen, you know, would have had considerable difficulties by the end of April, because otherwise, as far as the 1996 budget is concerned, there would have been considerable difficulties. Secondly, I have asked, ladies and gentlemen, that, in a very open and direct form, we also discuss in detail the many questions which arise here. And I can only report to you from the subcommittees and committees in which I was personally represented: It was always the end before the originally planned time. We have discussed in detail. I have answered every question in detail, whether it be the question of tax legislation or the question... [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't exaggerate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our discussions have already been specialized seminars by tax consultants, as it has already been about individual cases, we must admit it quite openly and honestly. But I know – and you know this too – that these weeks, which lie behind us and these few weeks ahead of us, require a joint effort, because – and I do not want to say this quite openly and honestly here – in 1992 we had in Austria a well-balanced system of key figures, a well-balanced rule. [[Call to the liberals: 14 days!]] We have had a balanced situation on the issues of the inflation rate, the interest rate level, the level of employment, growth, and we have had to note that this has evolved differently in the following years due to various events. This includes, for example, the countermeasures for employment impulses in the recession, but we also, of course, are also part of the fact that there was a tax novel which led to the corresponding loss of revenue. However, there has also been an increase in social transfers and an increase in public employment, so that the forecast has shown that there would have been a very, very strong deviation from the budget target. Therefore, measures were to be taken without delay, which is undisputed. Our main objective is not only to reach the monetary criteria, but it is also an objective, ladies and gentlemen, Van der Bellen. And I am clearly and clearly in favour of Austria as a small, export-oriented country having to expect a great advantage if it is in a common, stable currency block, so that the impact on employment of competitors is not negative. For example, at the ECOFIN Council in Verona on the weekend, we have also advocated that this monetary union should be held quickly, that there should also be a reasonable exchange rate mechanism between those already represented in the Euroblock and those who are not yet represented in the Euroblock, and that, of course, there must also be some sort of stability agreement between those countries which are already represented in the Euroblock. However, I would like to ask you once again, and with all the emphasis, to understand that, from my point of view, the acceptance of the population is given only because we have tried to achieve it in about balance. I would also like to say a few words about the criticism that, in tax law, we are intervening, for example, in current legal acts, essentially with constitutional provisions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary in the expenditure field to bring 100 billion schillings of deficit reduction into existing agreements in a year and a half. Then: How to explain to a woman who, for example, is already in the joyous expectation of a child, that from 1st century onwards. Although she has been pregnant for nine months, she is only valid for more than a year and a half this year. How, for example, is it explained to someone who has completed health insurance as a worker, in the area of wage tax, special expenditure, that he is suddenly unable to deduct this health insurance, which he completed four years ago, from a tax rate of 50 %, but only 25 %? Or another example: How do you explain to someone who became an official under certain conditions 30 years ago that he now, if he wants to go to the old age pension early, before the 60. Year of life, suddenly a reduction of 2% per anno from his expected pension grant? That is why it is only – and I ask you to understand this from the point of view, as Mr Deputies stupid and Mrs Ederer mentioned... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I believe that this is difficult to explain in the face of your party's promises in the campaign!]] Please, I listened to you, I didn't talk, try the same thing with me. I ask you to do so, otherwise we do not understand anything, Mr President. Okay? I ask you to understand that, if we admit, openly, to operate 100 billion Schilling budget consolidation in a short time, we are making these measures effective in the short term on the expenditure side – the Judicatur of the Constitutional Court, especially in tax law, in corporate tax law, has recently led to a lot of discussions – for example, the planned bridging money of 6 billion schilling in about a year loss lectures in 1996 and 6 billion schilling in about loss presentations in 1997 has not been constitutionally secured because, as the motion for a resolution by Mr Stumvoll and Mr Novotny shows, this is not to be seen in an overall package. It is also about this balance on the expenditure side, where the stakeholders – and it does not make any Minister of Finance happy to have to make savings here, for example – have to take note that, because of the budgetary requirements in existing contracts, we intervene in existing legal acts. I therefore ask for understanding that there are also six or seven proposals on the tax side, on the revenue side. Honourable Member Van der Bellen! No one can promise the Austrian population that budget consolidation is a task of a year and a half. Of course not! Of course, it will be our task to continue to pay very close attention to budgetary discipline even in the future, even during these further years of the legislative period, and to address very consistently the open points in the area of structural measures. It is really no one of us such a beautiful speaker that he turns himself down and says: We have now solved all the structural problems. We have succeeded in providing a partial solution to some issue – for example, in the field of hospital financing – but this is not yet a perfect, final solution. And there are still very, very many other points. It has been addressed by one of the previous speakers the question of the state's task critique. This too must be carried out in all care, but consistently and decisively and in the appropriate time. I have never claimed that with this consolidation programme we have solved the structural tasks of the next four years of this legislative period. And beyond that: Mr Haselsteiner! They work in a company and know that even in a company the task of increasing productivity is not unique. This is never complete, and no one can seriously claim it. However, one thing is important to us – and I would like to emphasize this very clearly once again: It is important to us that we give clear signs of employment offensive quickly and quickly. This should also become a very important issue not only at national level but also at European level. And that is why I have made it very clear to the Austrian social partners, to the representatives of workers and employers, after the time of pessimism and lethargy, to see and take again the opportunities that arise here, not only for the construction industry, not only for the construction industry, but also for the other economic sectors. We'll make an effort. We will certainly not be perfect, but we will endeavour, for example, to present a package in the next three months, in the sense of a founding offensive, in the sense of setting up small and medium-sized enterprises, of companies, because we can also expect a number of additional jobs for self-employed workers. I would like to make one more comment on the now suddenly introduced minimum corporation tax. We have a minimum corporation tax of 15 000 p. You know that in recent years the GesmbHs have been used for many purposes – in parentheses: sometimes slightly abused. We have a dramatic increase in the number of GmbHs with all the negative consequences in the bureaucracy also for finance and so on. And now we have done one thing: we demand a tax benefit per year from a company which, as I hope, is successful in the market, which corresponds to the tax performance of a self-employed person who earns 20 000 S. This is because the 50 000 S minimum corporation tax is quoted. [[Abg. May. Peter: If he doesn't deserve it?]] If he does not deserve it, he has a loss speech, Mr Peter. We have often discussed this. He can continue this against profit. And if he never deserves it, it's love and anyway no business. That's exactly what I've got: That the companies in Austria, the managers and the owners in Austria are less focused on investment opportunities, on capital returns, on interest profits, on them – almost exclusively – how they can save the best tax, but that they focus more on the question: How do I create new products, how do I introduce new products on the market, how do I conquer new markets? Then we would have a little less employment problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8067	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8088	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out briefly to one of my previous speakers, Professor Van der Bellen, that the taxation of electricity does not happen as indiscriminately as he described it. For example, electricity generated from cogeneration plants is very much taxed at a reduced rate. The taxation of the coal energy source was also addressed by us. We were told by experts that this would, unfortunately, be very difficult to manage. We have probably had to join this view or we have had to do it badly. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic location of Austria is essentially marked by two factors in the discussion: One of these factors has already addressed and described Secretary-General Dr. Stumblingly, it is a factor of stability, and another factor is flexibility. There seems to be only one contradiction between these two elements. In reality, these economic and social conditions complement each other. In both areas, I believe, significant intermediate services have already been provided. But it's still a lot to do. I am thinking, above all, of the flexibility of working time – it has just been addressed in recent months – without offering – and that is the most essential – the legitimate interests of the workers. Another area is liberalisation in the regulations of the economic system. If we do not seriously detach the trade order, the much-quoted source wave will be reduced to a few squirrels. And I understand, with serious unrest, the removal of all the provisions that make it difficult to access and prevent competition. To eliminate these Roomalist relics, we need courage and the look for the essentials. I particularly appeal to employers' representatives. They are particularly required on this issue. The stability factor is primarily met in a consolidated budget. The savings in the public budget are welcomed by the population in general. We are therefore particularly required not to let down on the confidence that the people in this area have in us. Let me point out the new ways and opportunities offered by consolidation in this aspect of part of the energy tax, by a partial measure. Ladies and gentlemen! What are the main objectives and concerns of energy taxation? – It is undisputed that the environmental impact of the production of energy through non-renewable resources and their consumption in recent years has become one of the most important problems of advanced industrialized countries – including our country. For all of us, therefore, it must be a central concern of credible and responsible economic policy to find ways to make it possible to deal with non-renewable resources as possible. [[Abg. Murauer: For example, hydropower!]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Wind power!]] Mr Murauer! Look You're looking at the situation in Upper Austria! I think your head of state and head of state Dr. Pühringer would have been well advised to follow our advice on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Its simplified, simplifying approach to this issue is not very targeted, as the latest development shows. [[Abg. Murauer: You just said it yourself!]] Now listen! This is also a feature that you have, unfortunately, been very missing from God in recent times. This credibility, ladies and gentlemen, also includes self-confidence in its own position and courage in its own initiative. Austria has been in the forefront of the countries with measures against CO2 emissions, air pollution, environmental standards and a clear commitment to further efforts in the field of environmental protection and environmental economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] As an example, I should like to mention our ambitious commitment to the achievement of the Toronto target. We want to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 percent on the basis of the values from 1988 to 2005. Our claim to continue to play an exemplary role in environmental responsibility within the industrialized states community is based on the concept of energy tax in force in June 1996. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You have the wrong speech! Structural adjustment law!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr. Diplomkaufmann! Have you woken up too? That's very pleasing. I've already said that's like serving at the Federal Chancellor's Office on Saturday. There he gets himself, so I have been told that the information he needs for his work in Parliament. [[Abg. Eder: Only the newspapers he picks up!]] That's right, just the newspapers, all right. I got too high: He's just getting the newspapers and no information. Thank you, Mr Eder, but I didn't want to go that far. I didn't want to go into detail. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This concept of energy taxation aims to cover the environment and environmental pollution as a cost factor and to integrate it into operational cost calculation, i.e. to make it internal for external costs. The energy tax corresponds, I believe, on the one hand, to the main objective of resource conservation and, on the other hand, to a further important step towards the ecologicalisation of the tax system, as set out in the Coalition Agreement. More serious studies show that energy tax, if properly conceived, has a positive impact on the economy and employment. I am allowed to quote in this regard Wifo studies and studies of Austrian municipal credit AG. I would like to briefly explain and justify the reasons for the introduction of the energy tax: Tag one: Environmental steering effect in favour of energy saving. We all know – if we don't always like that – when energy costs more, increasing efforts are being made to reduce energy costs. The savings for this – we have already created the framework conditions for so many here in the High House – are diverse and ranged from thermal insulation in living and office rooms to improving the efficiency of industrial plants. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: It's not that simple!]] Tag two: Environmental steering effect in favour of alternative energy sources. Energy taxation can contribute in two ways to the faster dissemination of alternative environmentally friendly energy sources: firstly, through improved competitiveness due to lower price differences with conventional energy sources and secondly through the possibility of targeted energy tax incentives. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Mr. Secretary! It's not that simple!]] That all this will not happen exactly one thing, Mr President, I know that too, but if we are not at all concerned, we will not achieve any effects, but we will always have to strive for them. The energy tax will also support the approach to cost-truth. We know that the consumption of non-renewable energy sources causes economic follow-up costs, i.e. external costs, which are at least partially charged to the consumer by the energy tax now to be decided upon. Energy taxation is therefore a very central element of an ecologically oriented economic policy, because almost all environmental hazards are due to the use and production of energy. Whether we want it true or not, whether we like it or not: Only when the consumption of the good environment also has a price will it become more economical to deal with. I also believe that energy taxation is also a further step towards the ecological tax and promotion system. The energy tax will therefore bring the financial resources that will be available for energy-saving purposes. The reduction in labour costs required by the economy, according to economic researchers, would have lower steering effects than a targeted, multi-faceted support system for ecologically meaningful investments and innovation that it is necessary to develop. Ladies and gentlemen! The essential thing in this context is the commitment of purpose. I believe that a first important and right step in this direction has been taken with the Climate Change Bill. Energy taxation will also provide impetus for the economy and help create new markets. It is therefore by no means an economic damper factor. On the contrary: If we manage them wisely, we can expect a significant shift in technology and new markets. The innovations addressed can range from product improvements in consumer equipment, from an improvement in efficiency to solar and wind technology plants. Austria has enough potential for qualified engineering knowledge and technology know-how to use all new market opportunities accordingly. Another, unfortunately, much too much debated, but very important aspect in this context is the positive impact on the current account. Austria can build on its international reputation for the construction of industrial plants in the international marketing of renewable energy plants. At the same time, the decline in fossil energy consumption also reduces the corresponding imports. Ladies and gentlemen! We are called on to support these effects as far as possible by means of intelligent investment aid, promotion offers and also through tax relief of particularly affected industries. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why do you talk about it?]] Another aspect we should not overlook is that energy taxation is also an opportunity for agriculture. A small amount of attention, but in no way essential, has a positive impact on agriculture. By providing renewable raw materials for energy generation as well as land for wind turbines and solar panels, more and more farmers open up new sources of income. [[Abg. Murauer: Water power already belongs to that!]] I am pleased to note that the energy tax is generally accepted by society. Surveys have a broad support in the population, although they are undoubtedly burdened by the introduction of the energy tax. For example, 61 percent support Austria's eco-tax in international alone. We are no longer alone with this, we are already in good company with other EU countries, such as the Netherlands and Denmark, who have also introduced eco-taxes. [[Abg. Böhacker: When does this eco-tax reform come?]] However, the energy tax is also a prerequisite for further action. Active environmental policy in Austria can already have many successes in this direction. Air conditioning achieved excellent results. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the 1970s, decoupling of industrial production increases and energy consumption has taken place. The energy tax now includes two other conventional energy sources with gas and electricity, which have an increasing consumption tendency. This closes the circle of energy taxation. However, this energy taxation is also the prerequisite for further ecologically oriented redesign of the entire tax and economic system with the basic principle of enhancing energy consumption and the environmental burden on the relief or promotion of work, as well as environmental investment and innovation. For all these reasons, we Socialists are taking these measures because we are convinced that they are not an overwhelming but important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8299	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8320	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some Members of the Government could also say, in the light of today's speeches, that: Dear Marionettes, that is, after what has happened here today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, he has come out boldly and has said that he is opposed to many provisions in the structural adjustment laws, but he nevertheless agrees. What definition do you find for such a Member? I only find the definition "Hamplelmann" or "Marionette" there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What then are you from the Haider? Hairers Marionettes!]] Federal Minister! You are asking why the opposition is even excited that there would have been no way of discussing in the committees that it would have been enough time for each committee to debate. Federal Minister! If you make the requirement that nothing should be changed in this package and that only the amendments tabled by the opposition parties should be rejected as stupid, Novotny, Gradwelt and Mühlbachler, then all the opposition parties' requests should be rejected, be they still so sensible and as good as they are, automatically, what should this be for a debate? This budget debate has also shown one reason why, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you are always so afraid of the Third Republic. That is where the debate is going to lead to a strengthening of parliamentarianism, a strengthening of direct democracy, and then things like this budget debate could not happen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You celebrate a budget by saying that there is a need for consolidation of 100 billion schilling – two thirds of expenditure on the part of the budget, one third on the revenue side. Now let's look at: We only have 80 billion in revenue. It is clear to me, Mr Federal Minister, that this is also about financing the financial compensation for the countries and communities. But you should have said this in advance that the financial needs are much higher, rather than misleading the population, that only 100 billion are missing, if indeed 145 to 150 billion are missing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: The federal deficit!]] Not only is the Federal Budget crucial for the Maastricht criteria, but – and you know that exactly – the budget of the countries and the municipalities. But you are driving taxes in the form of 80 billion schilling of tax revenue alone. You said at the time: There will at best be 33 billion schilling. That was simple and simply the untruth. And so you went through all the budget debates. The budget was sloppy. The budget creation was even so sloppy that it was only during the budget debate that budget approaches, which had actually been part of the Ministry of Health, were still in the Ministry of Science. You had worked so sloppy that you had to proceed with an amendment. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Please stick to the truth! That was a subsequent change of the Federal Ministry Act!]] I'll stick to the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (Federal Minister Mag. Climate turns) But now he's gonna wrap you up!]] But the debate on this has taken place in the Committee. This has not been settled before. The debate was in the Committee because the opposition parties, first and foremost the liberals, because the other opposition parties had more to do with these committee deliberations – the then Federal Minister for Health, drew attention to the fact that there is no approach for them at all. That's why you changed the whole thing with an amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's right, Minister! Wake up, Minister!]] You also said, and you also had to change that: Economic growth is 1.6%. You have to correct that to 0.6 percent. And then you have to bring about the tax changes, again with a change request, because 4 billion schillings were expected less tax revenue. But you have not tried to save any expenditure at this level or make any structural adjustments. You just said: As we put 3.8 billion schillings more in the proceeds of privatisation, that's much easier. We want to privatize CA anyway. – We've been "privatising" CA for five years now. So far, it hasn't succeeded. – Let’s stop at 3.8 billion schilling – done! – so that the budget will be half right again. Federal Minister! In my question, if you do not want to reach the Maastricht criteria, you have said: I don't care about that in 1996, Maastricht is not relevant to me, because I can help myself differently. – This is not a serious budgetary policy, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is therefore not a serious budgetary policy because the 1996 budget is also the basis for the 1997 budget. They're from the OMC's financial department. If the basics are already wrong for 1996, they will be even more false for 1997. You won't be more correct by your false numbers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: If you were more precise, we would better talk to each other!]] Federal Minister! In 1997, Maastricht is relevant. But it's also about the following: 1996 is also a crucial year for you, because the 1997 budget builds on the 1996 result. They're sneaking out somewhere and saying, We will reach the Maastricht criteria by force in 1997. Here you take all the resources, support the clearance decisions and so on – it has already been listed today. But what happens in 1998 doesn't matter to you. In 1998 certain things ceased, for example, the exemption decisions are again valid. Or do you perhaps want to continue to sisify the clearance notices by the year 2000? – Awareness Things will start in 1998, and then you will probably have to resort to a new package of measures that will put a shadow on the existing package of measures or loads for the population. That's what we criticize: Not structural measures have been taken, but a purely emergency programme has been decided, namely an emergency programme, not for the benefit of the country of Austria, but a purely emergency programme to keep this government in power by 1998 and 1999 at some point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will look at you very carefully, and we will have to find that this budget deficit will be re-emerged. These structural adjustment laws, Mr. Federal Minister, you yourself have said why they exist – are there to secure jobs, to secure the economic location of Austria, to secure our tourism – and also for budget renovation. What's going on now? Keywords: To secure jobs. In order to reduce the record unemployment of construction workers, you have said that we need to sell a little more in federal property and use this sales revenue for construction projects. In the last five years, sales revenues have amounted to around 2 billion schilling, accounting for 400 million schilling per year. With 400 million schilling do you want to secure jobs on construction?- Oh, my God! – Please, I guess the paint's been off for a long time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! They have tabled an amendment to reduce housing aid to the countries, which will be reduced to 24.5 billion by the original 30 billion. On my question, what is the point of commitment? It means that countries want to be granted higher expenditure autonomy. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Yes!]] Do you know what the countries need? – You do not need higher expenditure autonomy, but the countries... [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: They get the money!]] But your argument was first that you want to promote housing, increase the means of housing that need to be used for purpose – 30 billion schilling – and now you take out the commitment of purpose, because the countries need to clean up their national budgets. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate]] That's the real reason – and no other! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have always argued that you want to secure Austria's economic location. It is known that in Austria we have by far the highest additional wage costs. It is crucial that we have additional labour costs, which are significantly higher than those in Switzerland, for example. There is an investigation that shows that while the wages in Switzerland are 70 per cent higher than those in Austria, the additional wage costs in Switzerland are 60 per cent lower. And Switzerland as a small country and non-EU country... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (turned to SPÖ) 12 per cent officials against 21! You are also one of the 21 per cent, Mr President, who are too many!]] Of course! 22 per cent, 21.9 per cent. [[Call the SPÖ: The Holger Bauer too!]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Why do you play individual professional groups against each other?]] With its tax and tax policy, Switzerland has achieved that jobs in industry have been preserved or remain. We have lost 10,000 jobs in industry last year. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Did you look at the numbers?]] Mr Ditz, Minister of Economic Affairs, is now celebrating – although the ÖVP has entered the election campaign with the following statements: Reduction of additional wage costs; an eco-tax is only possible if it is income-neutral! – that the additional wage costs have not increased. At the same time, however, Mr. Social Minister Hums says: We will only be able to put the budget in order in the social security field by increasing social security contributions. An increase in social security contributions is again at the expense of additional wage costs, rather than finally considering and changing the structures there. Finally, we should adopt the old liberal proposal and bring together the social security institutions. The Minister himself has said that he is thinking of a combination of social security institutions. These budgets continue in the same way as we have experienced them in recent years. In 1995, 20 billion reserves were disbanded. The 1996 budget includes a reserve resolution of over 3 billion schillings. As you want to represent the budget deficit lower, you move the debt into the future, in the post-1997 period, as you want to reach the Maastricht criteria with all the violence in 1997 – that is the balance sheet date. Everything that follows – 1998, 1999 – does not matter to you. Due to these conditions and the possibilities for work in the committees and here in plenary, the liberals really do not see themselves able to participate positively or to participate positively. We would be prepared to bring in reasonable things, but not in the direction of constantly increasing taxes, but to open up a tax debate as it is taking place in Germany, namely to reduce the tax rate so that workers' or employers' capacity is increased. For this philosophy you would find our support fully. – But we will certainly not give our consent to the Zahlefriedhof, which you have presented to us here!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8591	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8615	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trattner, I have a little different view than you if something is happening. You see a scandal in the fact that Mr President-in-Office of the Council said stupidly that he wished for the chapter on finance and structural adjustment that he wanted something to do with it and some of it. I can only underline this, for us women this applies equally. It is not a scandal for a long time, but a very open and honest way of politics. Obviously you have no special access to this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen has already referred to the fact that the President of the Council is grateful to us for bringing forward an amendment, and I should now like to address this request and to make it available to him. It is always true that the better solution is the enemy of good. I am pleased that a number of better solutions could still be found in really concentrated work in the early days, which we now wish to put in the form of a request. The distribution of the application deems me to be read out, so I can confine myself to two key areas in my speech. In addition to corrections to editorial errors, this amendment includes technical adaptations or amendments to agreements, in the case of specific cases, on two points, namely points 4, 5, 9 and 13, concerning the agreement of the financial compensatory partners of 29 March. ==References== This agreement includes, in the form of an overall package, in addition to the field of the financing of hospitals, the re-regulation of the distribution of the Federal Government's housing support grants, with a need for a new division key for mutual compromises in the materials. The agreement now provides that the means of housing development up to a total of 24.5 billion schillings per anno are carried out according to a fixed key, which is based on the previous distribution, while the further shares – as we hope – are being distributed according to the population. This takes into account both regionally different construction costs and financing needs for housing development, on the one hand, and the link between housing needs and population on the other. In addition, continuity is ensured in the financing of the housing promotion of each country. It is therefore also important that the proportion of funds beyond the amount of 24.5 billion schilling is removed from the commitment of purpose, so that it will be reserved for the individual countries to decide whether and to what extent, taking into account their particular financial situation, they are also devoting this proportion of housing aid. This will increase the financial scope of the countries in this area. Another key aspect of this proposal is an amendment to paragraphs 10 and 11 – which concerns 600 million schilling for childcare facilities; something we are very happy and satisfied with. It is about the division, but to a particular extent it is about the dedication of these funds. The previous version would only have provided for the creation of further childcare facilities. We from the Austrian People's Party have advocated using these funds for a qualitative and quantitatively improved kindergarten time structure and for projects of training for day mothers. This also provides for the formulation that has now been found. Referring to the comments made by the honourable Member Van der Bellen, it would be the Federal Chancellor alone in the Commission addressed: The Commission is listed in the application. It is the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Family Affairs, the Federal Chancellor – under the Federal Ministry's Law of Ministers and responsible for it – but of course also the Minister of Women Konrad, now also the Minister of Finance, country representatives – when it comes to treating the respective federal state – and – that is new and, as I believe, very meaningful – representatives of the municipal and city states in advisory effect. Ladies and gentlemen! These 600 million schillings in additional one-off funding for the next few years are very important because for the children of all ages qualified facilities such as kindergartens, pedigrees, child care groups and also the offer of day mothers and fathers – you can't be imaginative enough – should be created or expanded. It is not only about the need for justice, but also about flexibility and full-day opening hours for the better compatibility of family and work, which is to be facilitated by women. We support this very much and are very happy about it, because for many women, the question of childcare is crucial for re-entry into the profession or stay in the profession, so that some can only take up a job at all and be relieved in this way. I would therefore ask that this amendment be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8690	The amendment tabled by Mrs Bauer in his key points has now been submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. With regard to the extent of the application, the reproduction and distribution of this text has been prompted. The application will be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8954	The next one is Mr Magistrate. Peter to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e8975	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance, Minister of the Interior! High house! Federal Minister Mag. Climate has let us know that this country is in an exceptional situation. – How right he is! Ten years of coalition government by Austrian People's Party and Social Democrats must have brought us into this extraordinary situation. The Federal Minister for Finance has also informed us that we are acting under time pressure. This too must have something to do with the government parties and the electoral games that were played in December. I disagree with the Federal Minister for Finance when he praises the Committee's work. I had the inconvenient pleasure of participating in the Financial Committee of the Committee on Budgets. 27 laws were passed across the board – unstructured, lustless mirror fighting. I threw the towel after five words, because I don't want to do a play in which I would have to play the role of a comparse. Ladies and gentlemen! We now adopt a structural adjustment law with the votes of the coalition parties – as has been established for a long time; adaptation to the financial needs of the Socialist and People's Party Government after ten years of government. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ten years of full-handed policy, ten years of unfinancing promises, means that one of Europe's most prosperous countries is going through the state of bankruptcy. Warnings, demands, reminders of the opposition were, of course, rejected, ignored and erased from the table, for one had to see the bigger whole, as stupidly let us know today, and should not be so delivered with small details. This is so annoying, so unappetising – we have to act stately. In the last few years, they have passed a law which cannot be financed in this House, and now we are so far from having money and having to work under time pressure, as climate has said so correctly. I would remind the government groups that it is their policy – for ten years – that has led us there. You should also take responsibility for this. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So you are presenting us today with a structural adjustment package to adapt the structures to your debt policy with which we carry out a money-raising action, to launch an emergency programme with a willing Parliament, which gives up more or less its position within the democratic game, the government is willing to serve, and all this decides to reach the rescue ring of economic and monetary union. It is obvious that in our country Austria needs the pressure of the European Union, economic and monetary union, to bring this government to action. Austria is therefore adapting its structures. However, we should not adapt structures, but improve structures. We should pursue an in-depth reform policy and avoid the wrong path you have taken for ten years. The government statement of the Federal Chancellor was very encouraging. He spoke of market opportunities in export, of technology and quality opportunities, of flexibility and the chance of productivity. What the Federal Chancellor said in his government statement was pleasing. The Coalition Agreement – concluded in January 1996 between SPÖ and ÖVP – is also welcome. It recognized unemployment as the biggest problem, called for an employment offensive and a wave of business start-ups. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! Why Make You are the opposite of what your Federal Chancellor has said in the Government Declaration and you have written into the Coalition Agreement? Why Make You're the exact opposite? – By means of this Structural Adjustment Act, with the 97 on a strike, with the constitutional provisions you are still implementing, to resolve with the monetary acquisition action You don't have any problems. 1998 will be the year of truth. By 1997 you will come through with what you have decided, but what 1998 is, you don't know! Have you ever looked at the German example? In Germany, the Federal Government – made up of three parties – is now discussing, in April 1996, how to position the savings package in the amount of 350 billion schilling in order to be able to burden the 1997 budget. Clearly, this is a little west of us – but not with the politics you make of the People's Party and the Social Democrats. They have brought us into this precarious situation, as the Minister of Finance has expressed very clearly today. It is not entirely understandable what you will decide, but it can be seen that this structural adjustment package will bring a loss of confidence to the Austrian economic location, because retroactive provisions are included. It is quite exciting if the Austrian Economic and Social Committee, in parallel with the budget debate, launches an advertising campaign, a citizens' initiative: Stop the flood of law! The people say that the same Members, who will take retroactive decisions in the House in the next few days, say: Sign up here! Citizens' initiative: Stop the flood of law. Fourth: Notification of all laws six months before entry into force! – Here not even the right hand knows what the left hand is doing. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Two years retroactive!]] They explain to the population of the Economic Federation: We demand – signed here, set up for us – that all laws be announced six months before entry into force. The same Members, however, decide, while this action is under way, retroactive laws. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's how your policy is. The credibility remains on the track, double-bedness belongs to your principle. Ladies and gentlemen! A structural improvement package, which is not an adaptation package to your policy, would have to rest on nine pillars to tackle the problems offensively and to strengthen the economic location and thus employment of Austria. First pillar: a real wage and income tax reform. You didn't have the courage to do this, not the strength – or not the will, I don't know. Only the general presumption as a basis leads to the self-esteem of the powerful citizen. While maintaining the maximum tax rates, the progression must be revised and the 13th and 14ths should be revised. The annual salary is, of course, included in the annual salary. There would even have been a room for you to gain more revenue. Second pillar: ecologisation of the tax system. What you are doing with increasing energy taxes is, in fact, a crime about the idea of the ecological tax system in the long term. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They disavow the energy taxes in the consciousness of the population, and they make up what you have always intended to do from them: an inflational increase in the indirect level of taxation. Ecologisation of the tax system – planable in the long term, gradually implemented, socially balanced, non-profit-making implemented and used using a national scope, autonomous scope – reduces labour costs and burdens resources. – However, they have not dedicated themselves to this question, but refused it. You must therefore adapt the structures to your policy, but do not improve the structures for the future of our country. The third pillar is the creation of a venture capital market. There is a magical triangle in Austria between the huge capital formation in private – 3 700, 3 800 billion schilling – on the one hand, the equity poverty of the economy and the debt of the state on the other. Have you ever broken your mind about how we should set the framework conditions in politics in order to make a people of savers who prefer to pay unemployment rather than earn interest themselves, so that more people are willing to earn interest than just cash interest? In the last ten years, have you thought of the coalition parties thinking that you have acted against your own capital? If today the Minister of Finance calls the entrepreneurs in Austria: Don't put your money on the savings book, no, work out interest yourself!, yes then I wonder: What is this about the Minister of Finance? It is appropriate to create the framework conditions in such a way that the entrepreneurs choose to do so. But I can give up his calls – that is what I say here in all clarity –! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This policy, which has been set up for ten years, is a policy which leads to a high real interest rate, which means that it is just economic to make money and let others work for it, than to use it itself and to carry the entrepreneurial risk. We have too little profits in Austria. We have too little equity, so we also have too few jobs. Being a businessman doesn't mean eating with two golden spoons. To be a businessman means to realize something, to shape something, and to do so you need own and risk capital. They will not set up a business-founding wave with this policy. You will not start an export offensive and unfortunately will not create employment if the companies do not have the basis in the form of own and risk capital, if you do not succeed in forming venture capital funds if you do not revitalise the stock market and find equity companies that also need fiscal synergies so that it is worth drawing government papers, but also investing in equity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fourth pillar: Security of the social network, which has often been discussed. Whoever spreads with the pot and mowers away with the lawn mower has not understood that only self-reliance and self-care provide the opportunity to relieve the social network socially. Help for self-help instead of help for all and thinking of claims are announced. The social network is too important to drive it into unfinancing today. Fifth column: Flexibility of the working world, which has been discussed many times. However, there was no answer from your side. Sixthly – and this is perhaps the most important –: The single worker concept. I would like to thank the trade unions and the Chamber of Labour for having started a discussion on how workers and employees can have a uniform worker concept. But didn't you forget something? Has You're not knowingly mentioning the public officials? Yes Believe Do you really think anyone is seriously discussing with you a single worker concept if the public staff are not included? Do not make the population an X for a U, but say: If we want a uniform worker concept, then for all self-employed workers in Austria. These are those in the public and protected areas as well as those in the competitive economy. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The seventh pillar is the reforestation of state tasks. What does public administration really have to do itself? I have heard from you for years – from the Minister of Finance, the Chancellor – that you want to do so. I'm just wondering: When are you finally doing it? The universities have offered you the savings package in the course of this discussion: If we are fully entitled to justice, give us full autonomy, let us use the resources ourselves, and in our own way we will save at least what the Minister of Finance needs in the course of the savings package. – However, they were not ready to do so; They want to rule anywhere from above. Eighth pillar: comprehensive privatisation. In this respect, I don't get tired of repeating it again and again: The ownership of the State in means of production and on land is not a value in itself. The reverse of the burden of proof is announced. The national economists must prove to me as a citizen why they want to carry out an activity nationally, why a land, a property belongs to the state. If this proof does not work, it is to be privatised automatically. With these privatisations, you have gained scope to finance transport infrastructure, research promotion, environmental investments, old-load renovations and – last but not least – monument protection and secure employment in order to invest in the future of our country. There's money. The Austrian state has too much reason, it has too many companies and it blends into too many details. The last and ninth pillar is the harmonisation of the indirect tax level. You need to know: If you have too high indirect taxes in a single market, you will be able to pay more indirect taxes abroad than you will ultimately be able to do through higher taxes yourself. That's what the Laffer curve tells you if you know it. You have managed that today in Austria, for the first time – I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Social Democrats – we have four taxes from the tax: The brewery now pays beer tax, and from the beer tax she pays energy tax, from the beer tax and the energy tax she finally pays the beverage tax, and then she pays VAT from the beverage tax on the energy tax on the beer tax. I'm "gratulating" you! It's a tax system! Four taxes from each other: EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, You'll already think of a fifth one to make it a little bit simpler. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: But in the constitutional rank!]] Yes, in the constitutional order. - Thank you for the call. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! They're making themselves the leaders of the Federal Government. They agree with a parliamentary Parforceritt, which ultimately disarms the Austrian Parliament and deprives it of its constitutional dignity. Après nus le delluge: Behind us is the flood. – With this structural adjustment package, you will not solve any of the pressing problems of our country. We face difficult times!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9083	Mrs Hagenhofer is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9104	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) President Fischer said this morning, in connection with the forty-year membership of Austria, that Europe is a bourgeois project with progress and setbacks, at least – and that is, I believe, the most important – without any guarantee. That is to say, we have to take care of ourselves – and that is why the Structural Adjustment Act has been taken into account due to structural change and the economic recession as well as the associated increase in unemployment. In addition to the necessary budget consolidation, it was taken into account when the financial share of public investment in the area of communication, infrastructure and environmental protection was expanded. For the last nine years, I have looked at it in concrete terms: From 1985 to 1994, the budget consolidation was carried out at the expense of public investment. This means in comparisons: In the years mentioned, private gross investment represented 93 percent, public gross investment 44 percent. With the help of the Structural Adjustment Act, which is now in place, it is necessary to reverse this process. This means increasing public investment again, but not putting it in competition with private investment, but promoting it as a complement and a prerequisite for a successful economy, and I would like to focus on it – in the individual regions. In my view, for example, financial compensation serves as an example. This agreed to provide 800 million Schilling for environmentally friendly measures under the energy tax scheme and to leave 300 million Schilling to the municipalities for local transport. It is now called on the countries and the municipalities to use the resources allocated for this purpose, namely for local transport and, in particular, for railways, for the road. Ladies and gentlemen! In a Europe of the regions, the regions need an investment boost in the area of infrastructure, i.e. rail and road, technology, education and skills, because these three factors are a key prerequisite for boosting the economy, for reducing unemployment. If these investments do not happen, then I think there will be a shift, namely a collapse in the central areas – especially in road construction, industrial or industrial construction, and finally in the housing sector. The lack of investment in local transport, i.e. road and rail, ultimately means – and I think this is very, very important – a separation of the necessary life lines to the individual regions. This also means a slow dying of the regions – and this then provokes terrible conflicts in the central areas. The municipalities, but also the countries, have to bear the responsibility to use the funds that are intended to achieve this financial compensation, where they are particularly important for the regions, namely in the field of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9148	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9169	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I regret that the Federal Minister for Finance is no longer present because he has addressed me directly and I would like to reply to him. I can say here that we liberals have taken seriously the request of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance to cooperate constructively in this structural adjustment law. I therefore allowed myself, in the Committee on Budgets or in the Committee on Budgets, to submit well-founded proposals and asked the Minister for Finance to comment on this. He has not found it worth the effort to deal with our requests accordingly. On my troubling question, he explained to me: If I want to know his opinion on these requests, on these matters, I should like to look at the government paper. Who, ladies and gentlemen, is surprised that such discussions, such negotiations in the committees, will end prematurely? This is a clear desavowing of Parliament and of the Members. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Minister has also once again tried to bring forth the fairy tale, the class-warring tones in connection with the minimum corporate tax. He meant that the GesmbHs were partially abused in the past. Mr. Federal Minister – perhaps he can be judged – here you have to go a little deeper; you can't do it as easily as you can. There are different gesmbHs. There are the "famous" HoldingGesmbHs, whose profits they receive from the subsidiaries are tax-free, otherwise there would be a double taxation. Then there are a large number of management companies that do not carry out an operational activity, but only operate the management – for example a commanding company – and are paid by this company only the costs of the management. These also do not pay corporate tax. For this purpose, the parent companies and their shareholders pay corresponding income tax. However, there are also a large number of small, operational GesmbHs who must be happy if they can generate the income of employees who do not achieve profits and therefore do not pay corporate tax. And then, as the last group, there's a lot of resting gesmbHs that don't pay corporate tax either, of course. Now, Mr Finanzminister and the representatives of the government parties come and demand from the GesmbHs 50 000 S annually on minimum corporation tax, which, after all, means nothing but that all these GesmbHs be driven into bankruptcy by the State at the latest in five years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the clear financial policy of Professor Novotny, who is a special "specialist" in tax law, who still believes that the reform of corporate taxation in recent years has brought 15 billion schilling to companies, as was calculated in a pseudo-student of the Chamber of Labour. – It is completely wrong, Mr President! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Facts!]] That's not a fact. The specialist senate of the Chamber of Economic Trustees has calculated that it is up to 4 billion. But there is another proof, Professor Novotny, of how much you are "firm" in relation to tax law. They have accused importers of not passing 12 billion schilling on to consumers in a classical entrepreneurship. – Stand You're still thinking about this? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's quite right! Excuse me, but the state has taken 12 billion less!]] It is absolutely incredible, as the chairman of the Parliamentary Financial Committee here proves ignorance of tax law, Professor! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not true!]] The import turnover tax was always deductible and was never a cost factor, Professor Novotny! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you teach this to your students, you'll learn something wrong! Please go to the experts of the Ministry of Finance, they will explain this to you! Or visit a beginner's seminar for tax law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Why did the state take 12 billion less? There's a little more to think about.]] I can tell you the following: Mr Bruckner said to an economic fidelity newspaper that this statement by the President of the Parliamentary Financial Committee did not need any further comment in his absurdity. Professor Novotny! They are jointly responsible for this disastrous tax policy, which this Federal Government operates in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Let me say something positive and give my highest consideration to those specialised officials in the Ministry of Finance, who have really managed to put all of these conflicting requirements of the Federal Government into a legislative text with regard to tax law. Shut up! This was excellent work – but at the expense of Austrian taxpayers. I should like to explain ten points in the near future here, why we, the liberals, will not give our consent to this "Structural Control Act 1996". First: This is first of all the time-consuming process. It is not about the Committee's deliberations, it is about the advance. They have been asleep for three months in a dispute over government formation to take the appropriate measures. Secondly, Many, including substantive and constitutional provisions, are still included in this "Structural Anti-Adjustment Act", and this is based on the foundations of the Austrian rule of law. Thirdly, There are no longer any predictability and continuity in tax law. This is a tear sample for tax law. How do you want to bring international investors to Austria if they don't know what tax law looks like in Austria tomorrow? - Shame! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth: The uniformity of taxation is not achieved. The minimum corporate tax is a major disadvantage for companies. Fifth, you open a bottle There is a massive increase in red tape, both in the economy and in financial management. I'm just calling here the support of the clearance notices. Taxation and social insurance obligations of works contracts are absolute nonsense. The treatment of loss talks and much more require massive bureaucratic effort. Sixteenths: An ecologisation of tax rights – which has already been tailor-made several times today – has not been achieved again. Fiscal policy measures have been adopted. Seventeenths: The gap between trade balance and balance sheet continues to open up. It will become increasingly difficult to bring together tax balances and trade balances. Eighth: Income taxes will be taxed on substances. Again, I address the minimum corporate tax. Nineteenths: There is a massive increase in the tax rate. Austria is in a global competition of tax systems. With these massive tax and tax increases, Austria has to take on an absolute disadvantage of its location, making the settlement of new businesses considerably more difficult and at risk of tens of thousands of jobs. Tenths: In addition, in the BAO-Novelle and in the Financial Penal Code, the introduction of a fiscal rationale is planned. It comes to the glass taxpayer. It is not true that we did not want to prevent the evasion of freedom of movement, but: The small taxpayers will remain on the track, and it will become absolutely unbearable if all these measures are taken by you, the government parties. High house! There would have been a need for many amendments to this "Structural Control Act 1996". I will allow myself to make three requests for them in the near future. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] A second request, which I put forward here, is: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have a third request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request has the consistency of content so that there can be no discrimination against women, because women can already retire at the age of 55. If this request were not to continue, women who want to retire at the age of 55 and give up their business would have to tax the sale profit with the full tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of talk today about the fact that Parliament's freedom of action has been restricted, almost degenerated. There is much to be said about this, but it is true that a caricature often says more than a thousand words. If you look at the cartoon of Mr. Zehentmayr in the "Kurier" yesterday, you have to say: It is distinctive and like shameful enough when it represents a number of hammermen with the text: "What laws do we decide today?" "The Vranitzky will tell us." – This is the self-understanding of the representatives of the government parties. We liberals will therefore not give the consent of this "Structural Control Act 1996".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9401	Both the motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Böhacker and the amendment are sufficiently supported. They will be included in the negotiations. The next item is the speech by Mr Fink. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9427	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Böhacker, I should like to remind you of the meeting at the beginning of February in which we have been dealing with unemployment, and I can remind you how At the time, they wanted to consolidate the budget with loss of revenue. Let me give you a few examples: They called for a 2% reduction in VAT – approximately 19 billion Schilling revenue loss; They have called for the abolition of the drinking tax – approximately 5 billion schillings of failure; They have called for the reduction of the so-called cold progression – also 10 billion schilling of failure. [[Abg. Böhacker: I called for an overall tax reform! You still haven't understood that!]] Do you know what that meant? We had a budget deficit of around 200 billion schilling. That's not responsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that most European countries suffer from a high budget deficit. Unfortunately, Austria is not an exception, it is not alone. Unfortunately, in 1995 we had no less deficit, but rather a higher deficit due to the loss of revenue. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: There's nothing to do!]] Since the "curier" has already been quoted today, I can also quote from it. It says in today's issue: "Sparwelle now overruns Europe." Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands and so on – all link a savings package. [[Abg. Aumayr: These are the Maastricht criteria!]] We too need to do something. The consolidation program has succeeded after severe birth. The resignation of two Finance Ministers and the new elections to the National Council made this reform package possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The government and the social partners have succeeded in establishing a federal budget through the Structural Adjustment Act, which is expected to be consolidated. Interest payments on government debt have increased dramatically in recent years. The burden on future generations would have increased into unbearable, and the future of the Austrian economic location would have been at risk. Without a sense of responsibility for this country and the courage to consolidate decisively, monetary stability, price stability and, above all, the low level of Austrian interest rates in the international comparison would have been unsustainable. In 1996 and 1997, the common cash register had a savings requirement of 100 billion schilling. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who asked for the cash register?]] This huge sum is raised to two thirds by spending measures, i.e. savings, and one third on the revenue side. The consolidation programme has an important economic policy concern: It is about securing the economic location of Austria and therefore about safe jobs. Only if we remain competitive will we remain a top-class workplace, and then people in our country will have a secure future. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Why do we have the highest unemployment rate since 1953?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Whether the future is so secure?]] It is probably not that safe because if your policy or your proposals were to be implemented, then it would be even worse for this state! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You're in government and not us!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Of course, such a great need for consolidation cannot be unmistakable, not without painful victims and sometimes also hardening for the individual. However, attention has been paid to the social balance of the package of measures. Several tax loopholes have been removed, popular privileges, such as the Fiscal truck, have been deleted, the Kest has been raised to 25 percent, the tax improvement of the overtime surcharges has been reduced, the deductibility of special expenditure has been reduced, the general drop-off amount is abrasive for higher incomes. These are all measures that are naturally felt, which, in part, also hurt. However, most economic experts are quite satisfied with the reform package presented. They see in it the economic location of Austria secured, they see a step in the right direction and a clear signal of action by the government. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] I think I can say that the government and the two coalition parties have achieved a good result, a result that can be socially represented, and that no one is required for a fee with these measures. We from the Austrian People's Party, with Wolfgang Schüssel at the top, are mastering the challenges in a difficult time. This gives people confidence, hope and optimism for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9597	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9619	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fink's speech was really an honest speech, a speech that a Member of a government party has to give, because he has once so correctly told Mr Böhacker what his proposals mean: 19 billion schilling more in deficit, due to 2% less VAT, 5 billion schilling due to the loss of the beverage tax. What was the third example? – 10 billion schilling because of prevention of cold progression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] That makes a total of around 34 billion schilling more shortfalls when I calculate that way. But he said that it would have been a total of 200 billion schilling deficit. Mr Fink, who is responsible for the remaining 166 billion schillings? That's going to be this government! And if you do, Mr Fink... [[Abg. Fink: We had a budget deficit of 150 billion schilling!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For the three things you have listed, you have clearly said that would increase the deficit. I believe you are, but if you say so, you must also note that the deficit that exists has not been reduced by this Federal Government. That's your responsibility! And you have not done so because in many areas you have not kept what you have promised as a federal government, but also as a government party here in Parliament. It is also very peculiar when Mr Deputies boldly mention that it is about the future of this country. If that were true, ladies and gentlemen, then it would have been appropriate to do something in the discussion when it came to individual professional groups, for example with university assistants. In spite of the massive protests, this federal government has not been prepared to put up the package in any way, with income losses of minus 20, minus 30, minus 40 percent. It would have been appropriate to do something in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We're going another way!]] No, with the university assistants, Mrs Brinek, you just went through this. It is interesting to note that there have been discussions about the relations between Members of Parliament, about the salaries of politicians in this House for a long time, but the Federal Government has only been able to get through to set up a working group. Nothing of minus 20, 30, 40 percent! It is clear from this that you are not concerned with keeping in the country's special interests, but with introducing measures in specific policy segments. And it's a question of worth where you're taking measures or where you're not leaving them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: In the context of this structural adjustment law, as you call it, it is not a matter of political-moral responsibility to young people, as honourable Members stupidly said, it is not a matter of state-political responsibility, because, first of all, this federal government, which has been saying in Austria for almost ten years now – again with a two-thirds majority – has ultimately brought this situation, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have not kept the announcements you have made both in the elections and in the individual reports – I will show you this by means of energy taxation: They promise one and do the other! And that's the disgusting, that's what the liberals deeply reject! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this was also the reason why the Liberals, having first participated in the Committee's budget deliberations, have adopted themselves there. We are not prepared to give up the alibi for a parliamentary facade that you want to maintain in connection with the Structural Adjustment Act. I would like to refer once again to the example of the new energy taxation, which is now being introduced. This is an example of false hopes that you have aroused in this country – for example in 1995 – and it is also an example of false promises being made. But not only do I want to limit myself to claiming that, but I also want to prove it to you. Just take the national environmental plan. He was in the XIX. GP as III-29 of the supplements also here in the house. It said, for example, about the reform of energy taxation – very forward-looking – that renewable energy sources should be given priority over renewable energy sources. In an economy coordinated by prices, the price system must reflect these objectives. And it has also been said: Exhaustable energy sources will have relatively higher prices than renewables. That is what we have noted here in the House, and it is also true that this is the right way. To do so would be political-moral responsibility to young people in this country. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] You didn't do it. On the contrary! It should therefore be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the coalition agreement you have concluded this time, you have stated that the ecological guidelines laid down in the national environmental plan must be implemented. You have explicitly stated this in the Environment chapter. That is, it would be if it were to be meant honestly and if you were concerned about implementing this structural adjustment law as well. The question now arises whether there is an exception for renewable energy sources from taxation in the new Electricity Tax Act. – But that is not the case! There is no exception for renewable energy sources, although I believe that Mr Oberhaidinger would really want to do so. Mr Oberhaidinger referred to the example of the Netherlands and said: In the Netherlands there have been since 1. A comprehensive energy taxation in January 1996. - That's right. However, what honourable Member Oberhaidinger did not say about this is that there is also an exception for renewable energy sources in the Netherlands. And there is no such thing in Austria, although you have promised to do so in the national environmental plan and have confirmed in your coalition agreement that you want to comply with these guidelines. However, they did not. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals, however, want to see here in Parliament if you do not wish to implement these measures, which you have promised to comply with them, in the end. I would therefore like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's all it is. Because you certainly realized that in Z. 3 and Z. 4 is exactly what the Government's proposal for the Structural Adjustment Act says. It is no longer a question of exempting renewable energy sources from taxation, as promised in the national environmental plan and reaffirmed by you here in the House with the Coalition Agreement, in order to prefer them to renewable energy sources. – This is an example I wanted to bring you. The second example concerns combined heat and power or combined heat and power, depending on how you want to see it, and in particular the 1993 energy report, which is also binding on the Federal Government. In this case, it is explicitly stated under measure 83 that tariff improvement for electricity supplies is to be carried out, in particular from renewable energy sources, in this context also to cover combined heat/power and to achieve a continuation of the coupling production of electricity and heat in the municipal and operational sectors. But what is the Federal Government doing now, ladies and gentlemen? – To do this, you only have to set up the Energy Charges Act, because it is expressly stated in the Energy Charges Act: In the light of the provisions of the Energy Charge Act and the Gas Tax Act, it is ultimately necessary that you taxly disadvantage ecologically meaningful cogeneration plants against those plants which produce only electricity with the same energy use. Because every primary energy source that is being streamed is exempt from the tax. But of course it also has a correspondingly lower efficiency than in the case that you flow it out and separate the heat and continue to use it. But for the heat that is decoupled, energy tax must then be paid. That is, you tax someone who de facto carries out the meaningful heat and force combination higher than someone who does not perform such a coupling. If the Danube is heated with this waste heat, it will be cheaper, better and more sensible, under the Structural Adjustment Act than the heat to operate a close-to-air network. This cannot be in line with the national environmental plan, and that is not in line with your energy report. – If you have anything to do with the credibility of the level you have, then you must really implement what has been decided here in the House, what is stated in the national environmental plan – for that is the moral and political responsibility towards youth, which honourable Members stupidly addressed – and what you have committed yourself to in the 1993 energy report! However, you have not done so, and not because you are just trying to scratch money together at all corners and ends, but you have completely forgotten that a structural adjustment law could really bring about structural adjustment. – This is the second example I wanted to bring you. The third example, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the cover-up system, which is that energy-intensive industries no longer have to pay energy tax than 0.35% of their net production value. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that those companies with a high value added must in principle pay more on energy taxes than those companies which have a low value added, completely independent of the nature and extent of energy use. At the same time, however, there is no incentive at all for energy-intensive and value-added companies to put in place savings measures. There are no financial incentives to implement those measures that you and all of us – in this respect, we are basically in agreement here in this House – wanted to implement with the national environmental plan. You have explicitly promised in your Coalition Agreement that you will comply. They were the ones who said: The ecological guidelines laid down in the national environmental plan shall be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! It also contains a passage expressly referring to the combined heat and power. On page 123, for example, programmes for the renovation of thermal building quality and for the dissemination of thermal power technologies deserve first priority. Ladies and gentlemen! They were those who said – this is also to read on page 123 of the NUB –: "For reasons of thermodynamic efficiency, the use of heat-power technologies should as far as possible be provided for in the thermal use of energy." It is true, however, that you are not doing that right now. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will put in another amendment, which I can now read. It concerns the fact that it would be useful if no basic and structural measures were already taken, at least to refer to the fact that there is an eco-audit certification in Austria and that this eco-audit certification could provide an incentive to control the energy and waste flows in the companies. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would be a simple way of increasing the application of the eco-audit regulation in Austria, which you have decided here and considered to be useful, because it gives companies an incentive to undergo such certification, ensuring that waste streams, substance management, energy use and, consequently, emission reductions can really become the norm because of voluntary action by industry and companies. That, ladies and gentlemen, would be provisions which would have to be found in this structural adjustment law if what you have written in the national environmental plan and in the 1993 energy report had been seriously meant by you. Again: All this has not happened. Nevertheless, the opposition is appealed to, but may the size of the task not be closed, but participate in the deliberations and participate in the deliberations. – In fact, you are not just willing to discuss the opposition’s proposals, but you are not even willing to implement your own proposals and measures, which you have already decided to implement now! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a spectacle. It's just a parliamentary facade. And the liberals are not available for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9777	Ladies and gentlemen! The two selected amendments have been properly submitted, duly supported and are under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9801	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate shows that both the need and the level of the savings package are obviously beyond dispute. – I believe it is important to hold it once, because no one has yet spoken. I think this is a sign that everyone obviously knows that this savings package is essential and important for the future of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the introduction of such a savings package also has a background and causes. But the reason for its introduction is not, as honourable Member Peter said, that one of the world's richest states must be saved from bankruptcy, but that one of Europe's richest countries should remain as it is: Austria should continue to remain wealthy and stable. Another reason, of course, is that 1993 succeeded in implementing a economic stabilisation programme which has led to the fact that, at a time when unemployment rates have increased fundamentally throughout Europe, unemployment in Austria has not or has only increased to a much lower extent. One reason was that there was a tax reform. And there are more causes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Each consolidation programme consists of a sum of measures and, of course, it is possible to criticize each individual measure out of its own interests. Of course, we can also criticise the energy levy and the ecological aspect of the energy levy. It can be argued, for example, that it would have been better not to quarter the special charges. Nevertheless, despite some of the problems that some measures may cause, it should be possible to endorse the whole and to agree to the whole. A prerequisite for agreeing to the whole is that this savings package is balanced and fair and that all groups are affected to the same extent. – And I believe that we are now discussing a package of savings, which can be assumed to be relatively balanced and fair. Now on the financial chapter in detail: We can all assume that the increase in corporate income tax will amount to about 7.4 billion schilling, that the income tax charged will add about 4.7 billion more, the capital income tax will be about 3 billion more, and wage tax will increase 18.3 billion schilling. – If this remains so, this corresponds, for example, to the ratio of tax revenue – which is a criterion for the distribution of the burden in these individual chapters. The problem is, however, that the effects of changes in wage tax and capital income tax can be understood and calculated relatively precisely, whereas the effects of change on corporate tax and the income tax charged are much more difficult to estimate. We must assume, however, that the ratio of 7.4 to 4.7 to 3 to 18.3 billion schilling, which I mentioned earlier, remains roughly as it is. However, in the event of a change in this ratio due to new loopholes, punctuations, measures and developments in favour of corporate tax and indebted income tax, and at the expense of wage tax, corrections would be needed so that the original balance can continue to be ensured. A special attention should be paid in particular to the energy levy: This energy tax will generate around 10 billion schilling within two years, and 75 percent of it will raise households, although it consumes less than 75 percent of the energy in Austria. This is also due to the fact that there will be coverage at 0.35 per cent of the net production value for industry and for production plants. In particular, it is important that attention should also be paid to the fact that new distributions of energy-producing components from large enterprises, which, as such, fall below 0.35%, the increase in the number of enterprises and industry in this energy tax, and that households still have to pay more than 75 percent. This too would be a development that would contradict balance. Therefore, if such measures are actually taken – and others are imaginable – you have to make relatively quick corrections so that there is still justice. However, I believe that, in sum, it can be assumed that despite some problems with individual measures, the whole thing is right. And since it ultimately comes to the whole, we will give this bill, this savings package, our approval. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9864	Mr Rosenstingl has now been reported to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e9886	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a great deal of criticism of the Committee's deliberations today. . I believe that this criticism is very well justified. In particular, the chapter on finance provides the best evidence that Parliament was excluded from the deliberations during these Committee deliberations on the Structural Adjustment Act. The Committee's deliberations on the financial chapter were set up for four hours. In four hours we should have consulted all 29 laws that are amended! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: At 3 o'clock we were done!]] Federal Minister! We were done before. But it is obvious that it is quite simply impossible to deal with 29 laws in four hours. Anyone who claims that this is possible leads himself ad absurdum. This means that a total of 8.41 minutes are available for each law, and that means that each of the five political groups and the minister's response per law are available for each and every 1.4 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is crazy!]] Federal Minister! I refuse to be abused by the government in the way that, for example, for a change in the income tax law with many paragraphs, only 1.4 minutes are available! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Do you recognize that this Federal Government has made Parliament ridiculous by this treatment? Because this federal government has gone beyond Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this has very little to do with parliamentarianism! But that's no wonder. I would have expected Mr Fischer to protest on the occasion of this procedure as President of this House and say: This cannot be done, it must have been done differently, it should have been brought in earlier. – He should have responded in a similar way. But what did President Fischer do? – From my point of view, his reaction is really immense. He can, of course, have his private and party opinion, but he cannot, as President of this House, simply believe that we are in favour of these laws, of course also of the Members of the Government. In the latter case, of course, it does not do anything if there is not enough time available for the relevant deliberations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Do you not have a bad conscience toward your voters as a representative of the government parties? They have not been elected to serve as government agents, but they have been elected to represent the interests of the citizens here. They have been chosen to treat laws in a serious way. You can't treat law in 1.4 minutes. That also does not bring you together, even if you still believe so much that you are good and have a lot of overview. You can't treat law in 1.4 minutes, no matter in which area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Apart from that, Federal Minister, the Committee's deliberations on the Structural Adjustment Act on Finance – you should look at your calendar – did not last from two to three o'clock. They started at 2 p.m. and ended at about 6 p.m. That is why your argument that the deliberations took only one hour is not true. I know that we had many questions yet and that Members of us did not come to the question, because of course the financial chapter has not enough time. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: That's not true!]] That's not wrong, Minister of State! You certainly didn't leave this house at 3:00. Look at your calendar. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I didn't claim either!]] But that you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, and you too, Mr Koppler, are only representatives of the government, show how this debate behaves. [[Abg. Koppler: You didn't use 40 minutes!]] It is indeed unfortunate, but a good example of Mr President-in-Office of the Council saying that it is all the best that is being negotiated here today. [[Abg. May. Steindl: He never said that!]] He said that we could change a lot, but we must agree because all of this is so good and absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! One cannot simply say that we forget the details – even if you are in the position that the whole thing is so good. It's bad! It's bad, my colleague. It's nothing good about it. We cannot say that we are forgetting the details, regardless of whether or not taxes are being increased in a sense, whether or not we are creating nonsensical provisions. Mr Stumpfully, Mr President, has not recognized that it is a matter of tax legislation which endangers Austria's economic location. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of you have unfortunately not recognized that your policy is an uncertainty for investors and, of course, for economic operators. Entrepreneurs in Austria can no longer plan, because you can change laws arbitrarily as you need it, as you imagine. They have overlooked that every citizen and, of course, every economic operator has a right to be treated unjustly with laws to take the right course. It is really insidious to introduce constitutional provisions into tax laws – still where you have introduced them! – to prevent the citizen from having access to the right. These changes in the law do not have economic effects in Austria – and this should be known by Mr. Collegue as a member of the Chamber – and they are anti-economic. The government does not provide for new business start-ups, although it is even in the government programme. They therefore do not provide for new jobs, but they provide for closures. Many micro-enterprises will have to be locked up due to their actions. Unfortunately, we will all experience that. You know very well that small and medium-sized enterprises are the biggest employers, that 3 per cent of these entrepreneurs employ 70 per cent of the employees. This is based on the Social Democrats – with ÖVP help. The package does not create tax justice, but – quite the contrary – injustices are created. The content clearly shows that you are only concerned with revenue increases and not with actual reforms. They have ruined the budget situation in this country. You have created a need for renovation, and you are now taking a deep grip on the Austrians instead of implementing reforms. This is the only way for you to clean up the budget. You forget, however, that you will only be able to clean up in the long term if you implement reforms, because these measures, which you are now putting, will come to your mind at the latest in 1998 – and, of course, the citizens too. These measures prove that you are non-economic. These measures, Minister of State, prove that these tax laws have only arisen in the minds of theorists. You have, in part, no idea how the economy is going, Mrs Colleague. Unfortunately, you do not have the ÖVP either, because the share of your economic operators is getting lower. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: Only you have an idea!]] If you have any idea, you could now explain to us how you can answer that loss talks are being suspended. Do you not know that entrepreneurs plan that, if they suffer a loss if they have implemented reform measures when they have put in place rehabilitation measures, they will of course be required to make the loss claim in the year in which they have the profit in order to make the recovery successful? It's not up to you to say: Sometime later, you can claim the loss claim anyway! Federal Minister! As a former financial manager of a company, you should know what this can mean for entrepreneurs. It is pure arbitrariness if you increase the minimum corporation tax. Federal Minister! Listen You stop talking about the fact that there are a few in Austria who may abuse the GesmbH. Of course: There will always be some who abuse the laws, but the legislation in the field of taxes or legislation must not at all be such as to say: Because it's a few abuses, we'll change everything right now! And so, of course, many who do not abuse it. They discriminate against the necessary means of work of motor vehicle, a means of work that is really vital in many professions, and create – you know that too, Federal Minister; and if you do not know, then you should finally ask yourself – a poor competitiveness with Germany, our EU neighbouring country. These are economic tax laws that are harmful to the construction industry, for example, where there will certainly be a decrease in various construction services. The fact that the Social Democrats have nothing more to do with the workers - and this surprises me very much - shows clearly that you are taxing all employees in Austria more than almost ever before. This is really an unpleasant measure, as you have never paid off inflation and implemented a real wage tax reform in recent years in which you have been to the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is unfortunate that your chaotic, non-practice and non-economic financial and budgetary policy must pay Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10035	Mr Auer has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the side of the opposition today a wall of complaint was built here, the states and the regulations were criticized. It has been said that the procedure in the relevant committees has been disastrous and unreasonable. I would have believed that you just marched out of the opposition today and presented a fireworks of brilliant ideas that you would present a concept that could be seen. Nothing like that has come, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Their ideas have melted away like the last snow in a very tired spring sun, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing is visible. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is the policy cast in figures. It is new this year that budgets are drawn up and treated for two years. There is the same ritual every year: The government praises, reasons and praises the result in the highest tones. The opposition criticizes and complains this and that and finds punctual problems and inconsistencies. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl said that the measures put in place are all harmful and they are damaging to this and that area. I say something to you, Mr Rosenstingl: These budgets do not damage the future, but these budgets secure the future of Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Peter said: It was our policy – that is, the policy of SPÖ and ÖVP – that would have brought us so far. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where are we? I quote the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", the head of IHS Bernhard Felder: There is a decline in growth, but no recession. It points out that Austria is much better equipped than Germany to cope with the difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen! We are on our way to monetary union – if you have forgotten. We are on our way to comply with the convergence criteria. Austria is an economically and socially secure country that is led by a stable government supported by social partners to envy other countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! And how do you look? A very remarkable article was found in the "standard" a few weeks ago: Deserving forces in the "F" as well as the media and driver expert Walter Meischberger at his time have disappeared in the Orkus, as did Chamber Reformer Hans Pretterebner, as Liane Höbinger-Lehrer, who, with her suggestions for the execution of the sentence, knew to refresh. In fact, it is a shame that Gilbert Trattner still has to take care of Austria's budgets and finances. Especially in the business sector, Haider's specialists Meischberger and, of course, the unforgettable Rumpold have done difficult to compare with their expertise. It just wasn't thanking them. – Regrettably, Mr Meischberger! – Neither could the long-term rumpold with its expertise, nor could Meischberger implement his "Aufs-Handerl-Account" into budget policy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why do you read this?]] Why do I read that? - Because it's interesting. It will still be possible for Mrs Partik-Pablé to deal with newspaper comments. If it fits you, you're just going to quote from these newspapers again and again. But if you don't like it, ask why you quote from newspapers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Cite an ancient "standard" here!]] I quote a new article from the 'financial news' so that you are up-to-date, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Obviously you don't think anything else about the budget!]] With a share of the Federal income in gross domestic product of 26.8 percent, despite on-the-spot measures, the fall in the tax rate continues. Ladies and gentlemen! These are brilliant or, at least, respectable figures, which one can quite well mention, which other countries would like to show. On the expenditure side – so write the "financial news" that you always quote – the consolidation program is a clearly ambitious one. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You always quote from the newspaper! Is there anything else in your budget?]] They obviously need clear remedial action in financial matters. I quote the 'financial news' so that you can't imagine that as a member of the government, I only sing praises on the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You and governmentman? It's all new!]] I wanted to quote independent neutral positions here. Maybe this will help you a little bit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't you mind?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget will also be dealt with in terms of financial compensation, and this is an issue that I am very much interested in as a local politician. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I thought you were a member of the government! Now you're a local politician?]] The financing problems of the municipalities are dramatic. As a result of the rising debt, the lower availability of free resources, more and more municipalities are no longer able to compensate for the ordinary budget. In 1993, there were 50 municipalities – that is the situation in Upper Austria, no "standard" quote – and in 1994 there were 90 municipalities, and this year in Upper Austria there will be about 150 municipalities that can no longer compensate for the ordinary budget. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Is that "standard" now, or is that yours?]] The main causes of this financial problem of the communities are the increased tasks which we have assigned to the municipalities in federal and country laws, but for which there has been no compensation on the revenue side. The most important costs arise from the supply of water, the wastewater treatment, the environmental requirements, the removal of the commercial tax and the repeatedly required removal of the drinking tax. I accept that the economy insists on talking about the removal of the tax on beverages when it is guaranteed exactly the same replacement. Ladies and gentlemen! I am aware that the communities have a different financial power, which in some communities can also be saved. But the fact is: Those who take away the financial margin must know that almost 70 percent of public investment is in danger – and each of us should know that he himself lives in a community.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10222	Mr Dkfm has now been reported on the floor. Holger Bauer. I'll give it to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10253	I thank you all for being so concerned about my health. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, It's the 16th or the 17th. Let me be in some form here in the House – no! – participate in a budget debate. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: give the same speech!]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: So long?]] Budgetary debates have always been neither in committee nor here in plenary what is called a star-hours of living democratic parliamentaryism. [[Abg. Eder: My strength!]] So at least I felt it or remember it: Let me have this subjective opinion and view of things! Only: What we have experienced during the budgetary consultations for the years 1996 and 1997 is a fall in the democratic parliamentary Stone Age. It's started with... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Of course, this is not exciting for you, I know, because you belong to the group of so-called patent democrats who hold it with the cabaretist Hader who says there – yes, well, I want your concerns –: [[Call:Hader! Hader]] Democracy is ollas, as long as we are on the push san, because then hammas lead. – That's her "democracy understanding", so of course you don't bother. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why you are not bothering all that I would have liked to say to you now, but I am disturbed by this as a convinced parliamentarian and democrat and enthusiastic parliamentarian and democrat. For you, it is normal for things to be negotiated here in the House at the end of this week, at the end of the next week, once in the pre-parliamentary area. This is in itself for Austrian conditions – I clearly emphasize: "for Austrian conditions" – nothing new. I admit that, but I still don't like it. Not every usus austriacus must be positive. The new and really unpleasant and disturbing thing was that the stated objective was that what has been negotiated in the extra-parliamentary area should be blessed by Parliament without amendment, i.e. without change of point and addition. That was the declared goal of the coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And from the fisherman!]] What a sad role the President has played in this regard in illuminating this, I lack both the time and the pleasure. I'm just saying: Hader, he's such a Hadrian, democracy is ollas, as long as I'm at the push san, because then hammas lead! - That's all I want to say. [[the speaker points to the Bureau]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: There's your own up there!]] [[Abg. Eder: There's another president!]] So that there is no mistake, I am talking about your President Fischer, the First President of this House, who has not only given his hand but also said that we are going to do that, we are going to put it through. [[Abg. Huber: What do we have a third party for?]] Thirdly, Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in As long as I am in Parliament, there has been no such thing. Whether this has been done before is beyond my knowledge. It's not everyday anyway, I want to say. Fourth: A budget of eight to nine weeks usually running for a budget from mid-October to mid-December, to four weeks for two budgets. Fifthly, eight days of committee deliberations for thousands of legal pages. There have already been many different examples of how many kilos, how many meters, how many words, how many pages et cetera included the package. - Eight days! Next point: retroactive laws. Next point: To eliminate the possibility of the Constitutional Court’s examination by collecting constitutional provisions so that nothing can be removed, even if it is unconstitutional. That's a fundamental principle of every rule of law, you don't care, you go over it, the rule of law, the rule of law. The main thing is, we have the majority, and as long as we are in the push, all democracy is. – Hader-SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore turn so lovingly to the left side of the house, because you are always trying so hard to present yourself as the inventors of democracy, as the truer of democracy, as the Beckmife of democracy, but when it comes to it, you hold it with Hader, otherwise nothing remains of your concept of democracy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are we too?]] To prove this makes me increasingly eager and moody, because it is really striking to unsightly what comes to light here. No matter how you may see it: This is Stone Age Democracy, at best Stone Age Democracy – but not that you always talk about in your Sunday speeches. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! On the matter itself also some remarks, not only for the process. They have chosen the worst possible time for the first serious step after ten years of budgetary reorganisation. Why? First: They have chosen a flea of economics. You have not really chosen them, but you have had things cut for so long, until you have nothing left but now – if not now, when else, economics, economics, economics – to have to take budget recovery steps. Secondly, You have certainly chosen the worst time, because you have waited so long until, in addition to the necessary budget adjustment, the extraordinarily high accession costs of Austria to the European Union have also been incurred. You must not be surprised, therefore, if you are faced with the biggest plea wave in the Second Republic, just now that you can least need it – cause and effect are unmistakable – and are faced with the greatest plea wave in the Second Republic, not only in 1995, that goes until 1996. And you must not be surprised if you are faced with the greatest unemployment since 1953 right now, where you cannot at all need it. There's an inner connection. I already know that there is a pan-European economic flute, but you are strengthening this flaw by the budget restructuring measures. I know there are different ways to clean up budgets, but I'm convinced of one – and not just me –: Every budget recovery has damping effects. And exactly in this situation, you are, we are the ones I am not envying you about in Austria. Whether you will achieve your short-term objective, i.e. a deficit of less than 3 per cent in 1997 - as measured by gross domestic product - I dare to doubt more than doubt, but we can only seriously discuss this at the end of 1997, at the beginning of 1998. As a reason, I only say to you: See what I have just said, and take yourself as a mentalist on the wall or as an indication that I am not so close to it, the revised economic and unemployment forecasts. This shows very clearly that, instead of using whatever measures we take, be it keynesian or other demand-controlled or supply-controlled measures, starting the stuttering economic engine and giving gas, you will achieve the exact opposite with your budget recovery measures or already achieving it. To do this, I have to say: The response in the Ministry of Finance to compensate for these revised economic and unemployment forecasts, in addition to the recently increased negative balances of 6 to 7 billion schillings, to which the privatisation revenue is simply increased in the budget, is set somewhere between helplessness and unfrozenness. – No more and no less. High house! My esteemed Grand Coalitionaries! I not only doubt that you have reached your goal of rehabilitating the budget in the medium to long term, but I am advocating it, because you have made much too much revenue in order to achieve a sustained recovery, consolidation effect. Their stories that two thirds of the expenditure is saved on the part of the expenditure side and one third on the revenue side are based on a numbering. If you look at things by light, you will see that this is pretty precise fifty-fifty: half is saved on the revenue side and the other half on the expenditure side. This will undoubtedly bring you an improvement in the balance for two, a maximum of three years in the short term, but no longer. In the medium term, you are facing the same problems again. But then we are in 1998 or 1999, and then we have national elections again at the latest in 1999. Experience has shown that every government's desire – not only for a large coalition – to take decisive budgetary reorganisation, consolidation steps shortly before the forthcoming elections. Therefore, nothing will happen, the opposite will be the case: You will make a tax reform in which you want to mitigate the consequences of progression. Therefore, it will not be possible with a medium to long-term budget recovery. This is a pity, and the problems we face will not be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10432	Mrs Anna Huber is now on the floor. I'll give it to her. – Ladies and gentlemen! I would draw your attention to the need to interrupt you just before 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10456	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Bauer! Now I have to turn to you a little bit lovingly. They often spoke of the Cabaretist Hader and of the concept of democracy. Mr Böhacker brought with him a cartoon of Zehentmayr, in which he presented the parliamentarians as a number of hammermen. I also brought a cartoon by Zehentmayr [[the speaker holds a caricature in the height]] A week at F. Haider says this area is black. - Sure, boss. Tuesday: This area is white. - That's right, boss. Wednesday: This area is brown. See you right now, boss. And so on. – As far as the concept of democracy is concerned with the liberals, as Zehentmayr sees it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In contrast to Mr Bauer, I must say that I am actually very pleased that the consolidation of the budget is also carried out, at least one third, on the revenue side. With all the need to slow expenditure that increases disproportionately: This, however, actually means that state benefits are frozen or shortened, and this is especially true of those who have little. And how – I wonder – would the scenario have looked if only expenditure had to be saved? What would it have been like for those dependent on state transfers? – It would have been a horror scenario for the families, for the youth, for the social and health sectors, but also for the economy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the Privilegienreiter, for the National Bank, for the Social Insurance Institute!]] Mr President, I should like to thank The savings in the transfer area actually mean less purchasing power and therefore less opportunities and more problems for the economy. However, we need to be very careful – and I share the opinion of Mr Bauer – because we are saving everywhere in Europe. Social and transfer benefits are being reduced everywhere, and these cumulative savings effects could actually lead to problems in the economy. I am convinced, however, that a half-right distribution, which is really just, can only be done through a combination of expenditure and revenue measures. And I would like to say very briefly, because this has not yet been mentioned today, that we are going to increase another indirect tax, namely the increase in tobacco tax. I think it will provide an additional saving effect that will go far beyond the expected revenue of about 1 billion. According to the law of the market of supply and demand it is proven that the more expensive a product is, the less it is purchased. And there's already the question: Is the Minister of Finance even interested in reducing smoking? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Sure!]] The World Health Organization concludes that the price increase of 1 per cent results in an average consumption decline of 0.4 per cent. Reduced consumption of tobacco directly affects the enormous treatment costs of smoking diseases. This creates a threefold effect, namely the reduction of tobacco consumption, the increase in tax revenue and the reduction of treatment and hospital costs. Tax increases are not popular. You can't take a break with that. Nevertheless, I am in principle pleased that revenue-based measures are also being adopted. By broadening the tax base, by restricting design opportunities – lifting taxes and not raising them, as our Minister of Finance always says climate – those who contribute to budget consolidation, which it is easier to achieve. They contribute to the consolidation of the budget, the scope for action for the government, for the State, and above all to the preservation of the economic location of Austria for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10519	Mr Dkfm has now been reported on the floor. Ruthofer. Deputies! You have 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10541	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have started today to consult the Structural Adjustment Act, which includes changes to 98 laws in some 20 constitutional provisions, in the area of finance. In the financial field, the revenue-based measures for fiscal consolidation are essentially regulated. While there is no increase in tax rates, the supposed objective was to close tax gaps. This structural adjustment law is not intended to close tax loopholes but rather to stop budget holes, as my colleague Böhacker said in committee. What is presented here as an obnoxious conclusion of tax gaps and a reduction in tax subsidies is obviously such a great cut in the previous tax system that many provisions are incorporated into the federal law as constitutional provisions. This means that persons who believe that they are in breach of their constitutional rights by those regulations laid down as constitutional provisions of this law cannot appeal to the Constitutional Court of Justice. The main measures are: the general reduction in the average income, the removal of special expenditure on higher incomes, the increase in capital income tax from 22 to 25 percent, the rise of the minimum corporation tax to 50 000 p. It should be noted that, in the event of an insolvency of an insolvency of creditors before the opening of the bankruptcy, a cost advance of at least 40 000 S must be paid. This cost advance is intended to cover the expected bankruptcy costs. Köst in the minimum amount must also be paid for a GesmbH in bankruptcy. This minimum taxation constitutes a serious obstacle to settlement, given that, taking into account this situation, the minimum cost advance will be accordingly higher. This will not lead to a rise in tax revenue, but to an increase in the number of bankruptcy claims rejected in the absence of cost-effective assets. Another measure is the consideration of social security at 13 and 14. Monthly salary. The social security contributions due to the special payments can no longer be deducted from the current reference for the month in which the special payments are made. In the future, the social security contributions resulting from the special payments no longer constitute the basis for the current reference. The social security contributions resulting from the special payments are less the basis for the taxation of the special payments. This means that the tax advantage from the deduction of social security contributions is now up to 6 per cent and not up to 50 per cent as before. – Here, in turn, you can see how much the promise of the government parties, which is a non-effect of the 13th and 14ths. Announcing monthly salary is worth it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, overtime is taxed higher, wage consumption tax is increased, taxes on gas and electricity are introduced, and tobacco tax is increased. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me just say a few more rates on tobacco tax. In order to consolidate the budget, additional tobacco tax revenue of around 1.2 billion schilling is to be generated annually. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to increase tobacco tax rates for cigarettes. This increase in tobacco tax has the same negative effect twice: once due to the decline in sales due to a price increase and the second by a reduction in the trading margin. And as we have noted in an additional proposal today, the whole view is such that it is said that the trade range is not increased, but is rather reduced. That's not quite right. I would like to add the following: Is Austria already known as a high-tax country with a total tax burden on tobacco goods – tobacco tax plus VAT – of about 73 percent, i.e. practically a high-tax country for tobacco products? On the other hand, Germany accounts for 71 percent, Italy 73, Switzerland 53 and the reform countries Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia 33 percent. The tax increase to be decided on to approximately 76 percent will make Austria an absolute leader in the circle of these countries.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10591	Ladies and gentlemen, I must interrupt you. The rest of the speaking time is kept to you. [[Abg. Dkfm. Ruthofer: I only have three sentences left!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10618	At any rate, the purchase in the border duty-free shops in Slovenia and the Czech Republic as well as the cheap tobacco purchase in Hungary will be a ruinous measure for the Austrian tobacco industry. . I think, Mr President, there are a few more sentences, and I will carry it out later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10648	You will be free if you want to do this later. Thank you. Resolution of the answer to the question 69/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10669	We now come to the requested discussion of the questioning 69/AB of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the maximum speaking time according to § 92 para. 5 Rules of Procedure per speaker are 15 minutes. Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs Aumayr.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10700	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In March 1995, the EU Commission decided to increase the import quota for bovine animals from the reform states from 425 000 to 500 000 bovine animals. The reasons for this are trade policy measures, compensation transactions, GATT-Uruguay-Rounde et cetera. You can stand how you want to do that. The fact is that there are more than enough cattle in the EU and that prices have fallen dramatically. The loss of income will by no means compensate the farmers. A handful of importers benefit from the import of the eastern cattle, cheap cattle are bought up in the reform states, and these dumping prices will never be passed on to EU consumers. Federal Minister! Before joining the EU, the farmer in Austria received 11 000 S to 12 000 S when selling a so-called "wheat cow". Two months ago he received 3 000 S. And now, after the so-called cow insanity, the farmers cannot even give up their best and healthy animals. The beef market in Austria has completely collapsed. Best, healthy Austrian livestock is in the stables, which have long been processed, calves and calves cannot be imitated. The CFPs cannot be observed, and it is already in the newspaper "The Press" today that the weather will provide a third of less food for the animals. Federal Minister! The situation for livestock farmers is very dramatic, existences are destroyed. And all of this is caused by English cattle farmers, by a policy of abuse and by the suppression of scientific advice. In Europe, the beef market is de facto null, but 500 000 cattle are imported from the reform states. Anyone who has seen a cattle stable in Poland or Romania or a slaughterhouse in Poland or Romania knows how calves are kept in these reform states, which are then imported into the EU over thousands of kilometres. I do not want to talk about the quality of food in these countries at all. Once we have seen such a thing, the arguments for trade policy measures, the extension of preferential trade, the GATT-Uruguay round are no longer clear. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The White Cattle Wahn!]] Federal Minister! You have mentioned exactly these arguments in your answer to the question. In this dramatic situation, however, I would urge you to act quickly in the EU Council of Ministers and to stop imports. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As long as the beef market in the EU is in this situation as it is now, as long as the Austrian farmers can no longer give up healthy livestock, it is irresponsible to remain on these imports. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – If that doesn’t happen, Minister of State, you will destroy existences, thousands of existences and thus thousands of jobs. The British get 300 ECU for the culling of a sick animal. We'll pay. And our farmers don't get any schilling for healthy cattle. We have to imagine the situation in which you have brought us! They had forgotten the farmers during the EU negotiations – they did not go so well, Mr. Minister, although you were there – anyway. This has even admitted Mr Landesrat Hofinger in Upper Austria. The hard currency loss has not yet been balanced. Where are the markets, Mr. Federal Ministers, about which you have spoken? They have said that when we go to the EU, the markets are open to us, for example in Italy, in Germany. What happened there? How many cattle from us have gone there, and who, above all, has imported? Now, in this situation, since all are talking about biomeat and our great ÖPUL programme, Minister of Agriculture Molterer is going to come and announce the entry stop for the ÖPUL programme. Farmers are completely unlawfully prevented by the media announcement from applying for this ÖPUL programme. The Chambers shall be stopped and directed or ordered to submit forms to farmers for signature, confirming that they have been informed of the entry-level stop, and at the same time they shall sign a declaration of relinquishing, Mr Schwarzböck! They are held, they are improperly informed by the officials, two farmers are created: properly informed and misinformed. Thus, you save from the ÖVP, so Minister Molterer saves at the expense of the farmers and at the expense of the environment. The government has made a mistake in the negotiations in Brussels. You have negotiated a lot of money in Brussels for the ÖPUL programme, you have also budgeted a lot too much in Austria, and now it will not be enough for you in the back and in the front, now you are taking correct measures that are totally illegal to reorganise the budget. We liberals will call for full compensation for the Austrian farmers for the losses caused by the Austrian farmers. We will protect the Austrian cattle farmers on the spot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will not tire of calling for an import stop for the 500 000 bovines from the reform states, and we will fully inform the Austrian farmers about the illegal procedure of the Federal Minister for the entry into the ÖPUL programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10755	Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10805	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This discussion of the response to the question is, in turn, a classic example of how the FPÖ is trying to make sure that everything comes into the EU, everything coming to Austria. [[Calls of the Abg. Aumayr and Abg. Haigermoser.]] Your leader, Haider, needs police protection most, but not other Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Haider even complained that he had too little protection from the Ministry of the Interior that he had to hire his own troops! In principle, it must be noted that the EU is the world's largest agricultural exporter. Trade relations are not a one-way road. At that time, when the EU was only 12 countries when there were no quotas for the Eastern European countries, there were years when the EU imported more than 1 million bovine animals from these countries. As a rule, there were calves and Jungrinders, who were also at the farms in the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Have you eaten beef schnitzel from England lately?]] There are also GATT obligations, and even then, when Austria was still a member of the EFTA, there were contracts between the EFTA and Eastern European countries governing trade relations. The enlargement of the EU from 12 to 15 Member States and the expansion of trade relations with the Eastern European countries increased this amount from 425 000 to 500 000 bovine animals. This is divided into three quotas: 169 000 bovine animals with 300 kilograms and more, 153 000 Jungrinders with 160 and 300 kilograms of live weight and 178 000 calves with up to 80 kilograms of live weight. These are the quotas issued by the EU to the Eastern European countries last year, and licences are issued for this purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The licensed beef-wit!]] The licences do not have to be exploited, they are licences issued, and they do not need to be exploited. If licences are issued to Austria or licences are granted to Austrian livestock dealers, the bovine must not necessarily remain in Austria. A total of 6 953 pieces were introduced from the Eastern States to Austria in 1994, mainly with a weight below 80 kilograms, which were further measured with us. In 1995, for which the expansion of imports from the Eastern European countries is so fuelled by the F movement, there were only 3 681 pieces, i.e. almost half of the number of imports we made from the Eastern European countries in 1994. These were mainly calves from Poland. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are also enough cattle in Austria!]] We are also concerned about the situation in Europe, about BSE. But from today's APA broadcast of 15.21 a.m., it is clear that a farmer in England, for example, sold a beef on a auction last autumn and kept silent that he had a BSE case years earlier. This farmer was sentenced last week by an English court to 160,000 S punishment. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What helps all of this? Don't tell stories!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] On the same day, it was decided in England that 4.5 million cattle older than three years of age must be slaughtered and burned. Hard measures are already being taken. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who ate this BSE cow? Franz Fischler? Who ate this BSE cow? Franz Fischler? He eats it! He explained it yesterday!]] This had not to have been an BSE rind that he brought to the auction, it was a breeding female, but he had a BSE case on the farm years before, and for this reason he was not expected to sell cattle. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who ate it? Did it eat Fischler?]] Mr Stadler! As an academic, I have assumed that you would have a slightly higher level than you keep giving up here through your calls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am delighted now that the FPÖ in the past did not leave an opportunity to criticize the AMA and demanded that both the AMA seal and the AMA marketing contribution be abolished: Today, in the main committee, parliamentarian Reichhold has for the first time praised the AMA. The AMA seal – in addition to the organic plants – is the only feature, the only guarantee that the meat comes from Austria to 100 percent. We are also trying to be able to prove from the farmer to the trade, where this cattle comes from, with certificates of origin – that will of course require a number of bureaucracy again, and this will then be sued again. We in Austria have the greatest interest in it. On average, the Austrian farmers have 19 bovine animals, and these 19 bovine animals, for the most part, still live on the pasture every day, and in the summer they are a significant part of the pasture. They are really very close to nature and we have the greatest interest in praising this to our consumers. Consumers – if they eat Austrian beef – have the guarantee that it is really BSE-free. Despite many investigations in Austria – in every investigation carried out against rabies in the past – there has been no testing of BSE at the same time – there has been no single case of BSE. That is why the liberals should stop insinuating consumers – to the detriment of our farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10933	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e10954	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like a third Federal Minister, the one who is missing here, to be Minister Molterer, ladies and gentlemen. But that he is not here obviously has to do with the fact that the request was not addressed to him. The right thing would be the Minister of Agriculture, I would like to say that from my point of view. I cannot see why Mr Aumayr has put the question to the Minister in this way, but I can very well understand the concern behind it, namely the concern that everything is happening here in the meat production sector in Europe, directly and in peripheral areas of Europe. Mr Schwarzenberger! So I can't blame it for just going here, wiping everything away and saying: We have the best, there is nothing better in standards in Austria than what the highly appreciated AMA has come to mind, and all that the Minister today, in front of the running camera Rindfleischschnitzel, gives of himself. – I guess it can't be, Mr. Cot. But let us take a look at the background to this question. Mrs Aumayr! I do not think that protectionism is the right approach, because it is only logical that, in the course of the conclusion of the World Trade Organisation Agreements and the enlargement of the European Union, the relevant agreements with the Eastern European States should be adapted. If trade facilitations were already, then – I would say – trade facilitations for all, including for those – of course, the basic nature – who will be participating in this market in the future. The "but" is coming! That is, if you already want to master the overproduction of meat by cheap exports, you must not play out Hungarian against Austrian farmers. This would be a bit too simple, because the increase in the import rate for Romania, Bulgaria, the Baltic States and so on is due to the European agreements, while at the same time preventing a reduction in the customs duty on live animals by 5 percent. This must be said for the sake of fairness. But – and now it comes –: The EU's agricultural policy and therefore the Federal Government – I am sorry that I too, Mr Vice-Chancellor, cannot let go of it unscathed – have become preoccupied with the task of rooting the transport problems. It is simply a bit lazy if, in the European Union, every piece of live animal is supported by 10 000 s in the case of export and Austria also subsidizes live exports to Lebanon with 1,500 s annually. This cannot be the point of a targeted, sustainable European agricultural policy, and it cannot be the objective of the Austrian agricultural policy to participate in this nonsense. EU-internal, too, we should finally avoid making the support dependent on the number of live animals. That's another nonsense. In my opinion, the transport problem can only be solved by cost-effective road transport. With regard to the animal protection aspect, ladies and gentlemen, of course the export of live cattle must not be cheaper than that of chilled meat. This is the third insanity. If one went off, the problem would be solved very quickly. For slaughterhouses, the same conditions should apply throughout the EU, as well as in other associated countries, with regard to equipment, hygiene rules and prices. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the real subject. Let us look at the situation in Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Romania and so on. Some of these countries want to participate in the next enlargement of Europe, to participate in the EU Internal Market. I mean, the big problem here is that in some of these countries, for example in Hungary, but also in Slovakia, there are completely insufficient pharmaceutical laws, insufficient feed regulations, insufficient implementing rules and, in general, a whole range of implementation problems, so that it is no longer possible to say with certainty what is going to happen to treated meat, whether live or slaughtered, to Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we cannot make things as simple as before by saying that we are fulfilling our trade agreements, but at the same time, Mr Federal Minister, we are looking away. I'm sure I'm the last one to speak the word to protectionism, but caution is recommended. People throughout the European Union are insecure. Mr Aumayr! However, it is not the British cattle farmers in general who are responsible for BSE disease, but some unscrupulous businessmen who have loosed themselves from hygiene regulations, and, where appropriate, the national British government, because it disregards primitive hygiene rules and has not intervened in time in 1988. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Conservative!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand – and I ask you to take this into account by the liberals – these problems that exist now – depression in beef markets, depression in agriculture, price decline can only be solved in conjunction, only within the framework of the European Union and not outside, because only the European Union – with a delay in time, I admit, and that is the great drama – can impose import bans and hopefully not loosen them so quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we must turn to the problem of how we deal with bilateral trade agreements. I mean, we have to meet them in principle. However, if it turns out that there is increasing maladministration of feed in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, I would also argue that these countries should be told and taught with all clarity: You can only bring these quantities which you want into the European Union and market them at appropriate prices if the requirements, the standards, the large modo in the European Union, or better still in Austria, because they are theoretically higher, are also guaranteed, in advance of the desired accession. Otherwise, we will have problems, otherwise we may get to grips with the madry on the outside, but at the same time we risk that a new problem will arise because of unimproved, unfit meat coming into the Austrian shops, and an existing problem will then be solved by a new problem. This cannot be the goal of our European efforts, which cannot be in the interests of our national health policy. There is a real need for action here. Finally, I'd like to clean up with rumors that swirl around. Mr Schwarzenberger, it seems credible if you defend the AMA. I did not expect anything from God except that You're singing a song of praise here. But when I read the ads: The AMA makes it possible, the AMA guarantees it: "Only the best domestic beef comes into Austrian trade!" then I ask myself: What about the share of foreign beef that we import due to bilateral obligations and that comes to Austria? Is that being slaughtered and not consumed? Is it coming to Tulln as a bone meal, or what about it? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr Firlinger! These are calves below 80 kilos, which are further measured in Austria!]] The calves are then slaughtered, my colleague. You don't need to tell me that, I know it all myself. There are calves below 80 kilograms. But young cattle is also slaughtered and brought to other exploits. Please don't explain to me that there is no meat of young animals that comes into the market! These are all distraction maneuvers. I'd really ask you: Stay with the case and tell the Austrians the truth! If we do not constantly push forward, we do not invent any new seal of goodness and the like, but at last we take the execution seriously as it stands in the law. Let us consider whether a number of things have gone wrong in the legal situation regarding health policy. Let us look at whether, for example, the regulations adopted by the national governments are all so unclean. . I believe that we really have a rich domestic and European activity to solve these problems quickly and in the interests of our agriculture and our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11013	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11035	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a few problems with the correctness of the link between the question and the question raised by Mrs Aumayr. When I think of the international reports on the mafia in animal trade and transport, I must say that I think it is quite possible that thousands of thousands of animals from England, which cannot be sold, can be sold abroad in non-European countries, and can also get to Austria via detours – with fake certificates and stamps, as is so usual in this industry in some areas. I am right in saying that this is, of course, a serious problem. Mrs Aumayr! For one thing, however, I would like to ask you clearly: It is not a question of putting a full stop to such disasters caused by people on the nationalist map, but in the run-up to ensuring that the ecological path is consistently pursued in Austria. This is populist politics, which is politics that does not lead to the goal! They know very well that: In connection with plant protection products, they follow the same line as Mr Molterer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs. Aumayr! They and the representatives of the liberals in the Committee have strongly advocated that plant protection products become as cheap as in the rest of the European Union. That's the wrong way! Put yourself together with Mr Molterer, who represents exactly the same line. He says: We must not create competitive disadvantages for Austrian farmers. – You said the same thing about fertilizers of art! They have gone exactly the same line, instead of being quite exhausted in this area and saying: We give this money to the organic farmers, we make this money available for the greening of agriculture. I say the following to you: Mr Firlinger is perfectly right: It is unreasonable to talk about free trade and to point and say at the first opportunity with your finger at your neighbors, because they probably produce that way, we will no longer take their product. And then you'll bet against import quotas. That's unacceptable! Mrs. Aumayr! The Austrian ministers have the right – not just the right, but the obligation! . to work in the Council of Ministers in Brussels on a massive basis for criteria that will be maintained nationally, throughout the EU, as well as in international trade. But not because they suspect, in Romania, in Hungary, the slaughterhouses are badly led because they suspect, there is this and that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't suspect anything, we know!]] That's a cheap opinion. We must have clear criteria, and, again, we are completely in agreement, in Austria, we must ensure that there are comprehensible criteria for a product declaration. Even Mr Schwarzenberger – at last he is here – has made a clear commitment to the fact that from the farmer, from the producer to the consumer, the path must be comprehensible and animal husbandry clearly recognizable. Mr Schwarzenberger! Let us say here how often you have rejected the Greens' requests in committee. Today, these applications are still around because you are not ready to negotiate them. As often as we have tried to put these requests on the agenda – Mrs Aumayr, you will confirm that. Again and again we have tried to achieve that Austria is going the ecological path consistently. This would give us the right to say in international trade: We have strict standards for our producers and we demand the same for those who want to produce and trade with us in other countries. Then we would have the right to say: We do not want these products – not because they come from Hungary, Romania or elsewhere, but because they have been produced under conditions that are not acceptable to our consumers. For no other reason, Mr Schwarzenberger and Mrs Aumayr! I think it would be a very cheap demagogy if you were to address the eastern imports here in particular. Please, what are they to do with them? [[Abg. Aumayr: Not in this situation now!]] Mrs Aumayr, of course we must be particularly strict in this situation. But we only have the right to prevent these imports if we consistently go on the ecological path, and your group in particular always keeps the flag in the wind. That is a problem in this debate. The fact that Mr Molterer has to satisfy his 90 percent farmer bandits is clear. The fact that Mr Schwarzenberger holds up this flag that he is on the side of the meat lobby is also clear. But if we want to go a clearly understandable path, which the Ministers can also represent in Brussels, without being alarmed as nationalists and lobbyists, if they want to try to get allies for their way to Sweden, to the Finns, to those countries that have long understood that the ecological path must be taken, then we must find comprehensible criteria. I know that for years the Ministry of Agriculture has been negotiating a declaration that is actually understandable, a label that deserves the word "sign". They rightly criticise the AMA mark on meat products in the Committee, especially the sausages, when only 75 percent come from Austria. Mr Schwarzenberger! 25 percent cannot be salt and pepper. But that is exactly what we need in Austria: something that is acceptable both in the EU and internationally. Mr Firlinger! One more word to you. If you think that these problems can only be addressed across the EU, I would ask you to consider what has happened. We first took the big step of deregulation and now we are yelling: We need solutions, but we can only find them across the EU. – You know exactly how difficult it is to move the British to a regulation that is against the interests of the British meat industry. They know exactly how difficult it is to bring the Spaniards to a social charter on social conditions. You can now always talk about it: We can only solve all of this across the EU, best around the world. – Of course, but what prevents us from taking clear and concrete steps here in Austria to tackle these problems? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: Wabl, you represent the interests of the Italians!]] Mr. Kaiser! Yeah, I also represent the Italians if they're right. And I am also in favour of this – and I say quite openly, Mrs Aumayr – that solidarity with the English farmers is being exercised. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: With our money?]] Yes, also with our funds, Mr Reichhold, because I consider nationalism to be false on this issue. Our farmers would be just as happy if they were in the shit due to a missing agricultural policy! [[Congratulation with the greens and congratulations of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Mr. Reichhold! I have a reply from Mr Fischler on 29 February. 4. 1994 on beef insanity. This can be seen, Mr Stadler – you know, my solidarity is not limited to nationalities. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Fäkal Sprache!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But it took a long time for you to come to the Austrian farmers! Solidarity with the Italians, solidarity with the Romanians, solidarity with the English, not only with the Austrians!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You are watching our farmers stand before nothing!]] Mr Haider! I think that's a cheap polemic. The Austrian farmers would have been helped if you had not been constantly hanging your flag in the wind and had not been constantly acting populist. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Austrian farmers have nothing of it if you handle it with flags! You've shown a flag here before, and it wasn't very successful!]] Mr Haider! This should have been triggered by thought processes in your group. I have here a question answered by Mr Fischler, then Minister of Agriculture, of 29. ==References== From this one can see how important he took the problem of cow madness back then. On the written request of Deputies Wabl, friends of 3. Mr Fischler, Federal Minister for Health, Sports and Consumer Protection, was honoured to inform him on the issue of BSE and BIV in March 1994 that the questions raised were not within his scope, but in the case of the Federal Minister for Health, Sport and Consumer Protection Krammer. So that's not his territory. Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly the problem we are facing. For years these things have been denied, including by your group, Mrs Aumayr. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No!]] Of course. Since many consumers are now driving the ecological course, you are also on it. I've already made it clear to you what dual strategy you're pursuing. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aumayr! We can work very well on these issues, but please do not double-pull and double-duty. Mr Molterer and Mr Schüssel know very well: If they do not follow the ecological path consistently, they will pass over. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11212	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11233	High house! Mr President. The opposition, especially the FPÖ, has rightly filed a complaint in the morning that there is not enough time to deal with the budget and the budget accompanying laws. Therefore, three discussions are now being held on questions which have nothing to do with the subject of budget and budget accompanying legislation, which can, of course, be discussed at any given time, but which are in no way up-to-date. Secondly, On the morning, the chairman of the liberals – I have listened very closely to his speech – praised the Council of Europe because the Council of Europe has made the clear decision to lay the foundation for peace and freedom of the European states. This is not possible when this Europe ends in the West. This Europe will only be a free Europe if it is a comprehensive one and will integrate all those countries that have suffered for decades in Eastern Europe under the Communist dictatorship into the community of civilised rule of law democracies. – I fully agree with that. Now in the afternoon you will request a request meeting that is opposed to the diametrically. What you, ladies and gentlemen, have proposed here – that is not sophistically – was an import stop from Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Aumayr: Now, in this situation!]] This is precisely the opposite of integration, which the liberal partyobmann spoke about on the morning. That's not serious. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They complain of consumer uncertainty. [[Other calls of the Abg. Aumayr.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have voice problems. Be so polite and listen to me, I've listened too. You rightly criticised the uncertainty of consumers in other ways on the morning. What's going on here? It is, please, not about animals for slaughter, although you have tried to raise this very impression here. These 500 000 bovine animals that come into the EU from Eastern Europe are not animals of slaughter. These are mast animals. This has nothing to do with the fact that these are now being presented to the Austrian consumer. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Listen! The second is that you claim that we – you have always used the word "we" – will take these 500 000 cattle. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) "we" can't be the talk here, if it's about Austria. We imported 6 900 bovine animals from all over Eastern Europe in 1994 – which Georg Schwarzenberger has already pointed out – and not even half last year. And this day we will probably get nothing because the Poles say they want to keep the calves themselves. Almost all, that is, over 90 percent of these 500,000 cattle, go to Italy as they are. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberal opposition! I do not quite understand why the fact that the free movement is already upsetting what the Italians are allowed to buy in the context of the EU should have a special urgency in the middle of the budget debate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I listened very carefully. Mrs Aumayr criticised the fact that farmers now no longer have the opportunity to co-finance the OPUL programme, i.e. the Community and Austria's major environmental programme. I should like to remind you very briefly that there have been freedom of movement officials who told the farmers before the elections: Don't be involved, the money never comes anyway. Now some farmers have really believed you, and now the farmers are wondering – there are payment obligations that are not open to limitless, although thankfully the National Council has even increased the funds for it, it was a very controversial issue in the autumn – that suddenly a problem arose. You have created the problem and no one else, but certainly not Willi Molterer, who has fought with teeth and claws for just this environmental programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the morning you will act and fight for the jobs in Austria – hopefully it is meant to be honest – but you should also say the other side of the truth: Trade is not a one-way street around the world. We are now exporting goods to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe worth 74 billion schilling per year. There are thousands, yes, tens of thousands of Austrian jobs at stake. [[Abg. Aumayr: 10,000 jobs on the farm!]] The honourable Member, Aumayr, wipes with a dash to the side, that's all uninteresting. Again: They come here with a call for east imports of calves and beef and beef, the stony pedes of the Eastern countries, especially from Poland, go directly to Italy, and would risk countermeasures that de facto endanger 74 billion schilling on Austrian exports. So I really have to say that the jobs in you are certainly worse off than in all the other groups in this House. They'll never come up with such an idea. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the content itself. You have asked some questions. As I said, this issue is ancient, it was decided last spring in COREPER and in the General Affairs Council. The core is simply the following: Before joining, there has been an export possibility for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to the European Union of 425 000 bovine animals. Then Sweden, Finland and Austria came to the European Union. In addition, the European Union has concluded association and European agreements with Romania and Bulgaria and the three Baltic States. That is why, for no other reason, the overall quota for all, for the whole of the European Union and not for Austria alone, has been increased from 425 000 to 500 000 bovine animals. Then there was a long discussion: Customs reductions – yes. There was also a long discussion on whether customs reductions should take place in two steps at 10 percent each. In the last minute, an Austrian compromise proposal, which said, we reduce the customs duties not by 10 percent, but by 5 per cent each year – relatively restrictive to the Eastern states. This compromise proposal has then been accepted and has led, among other things, to the fact that the Austrian beef market has not now been flooded with additional low-cost imports, as you think, from Eastern Europe, but the opposite is the case, the imports from Eastern Europe have become even smaller. Please don't be angry with me: If this warrants a discussion of a request at this unusual time, then I must say that you really missed the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11326	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. Please, honourable Member. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11350	Mr President. High house! Mr Vice-Chanzler claimed that the FPÖ could have carried out the debate on the question of the reply to the debate at another time too, and has now again spoken of the lack of time in his final sentence. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: Rating, no claim!]] This claim is incorrect. That's not an evaluation. I'm correcting: According to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11383	I would like to point out that: I can't judge what it's about when I don't hear it. When the sound level in the hall is so high, I don't hear it. [[Further calls.]] Yes, but I do not know yet, because first of all the Members have not spoken out and second, the noise level in the room is so high that I can hardly understand the words of the honourable Member. I would ask you, honourable Member, to continue. I will now assess whether or not this has been an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11409	This claim is wrong. As one of the applicants for the debate on this question, I would point out that the Rules of Procedure are forcing us to debate this reply here and not only at any other time, especially since the President has also set the debate on this question at 4 p.m. on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11448	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say: In my opinion, this was an actual correction. I do not know, however, that the border was running towards a notification of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An elegant president!]] Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11478	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If, according to your speech, you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have also reaped long-lasting applause from the farmers' representatives for the purpose of cutting the issue of cow madness and saying that this issue in Austria is not at all up-to-date, that those dealing with this issue would be the insurers of the nation, then I really wonder whether British beef is only the body food of the EU Commissioner Fischler and not the entire ÖVP club. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If 500 000 cattle are brought from Eastern Europe to Austria, so imported into the EU, I said, then ask the farmers. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a complete nonsense!]] I have to deal with farmers every day in my ordination, with farmers who can't afford to see beef prices drop into the cellar, with farmers who can't afford to lose the markets now, farmers who don't bear any debt to the whole beef insanity disaster at all, now have to pay for it. So yesterday in the ordination a farmer told me that it was a pigry when the cattle were fed with animal meal. In return, those responsible in Brussels and also in Austria should be fed with hay in order to compensate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Inn Quarter is an area where many cattle farmers live. Mr. Freund from Lambrechts is also a farmer of cattle, and he knows the concerns. That is why I am surprised that he applauds the Vice-Cancecian so much when he is one of the unharmed, and one of the unharmed, such as the British government, which has been impoverished for ten years, the EU Commission, has also been impoverishing it for ten years, the WHO and, as far as cattle insanity and Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease are concerned, also the Ministry of Health and Austrian Health Policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have already asked the first question on bovine insanity in 1990. I have not even heard the slightest mouths of a health politician of the ÖVP and SPÖ on this issue. This topic is deliberately turned under the carpet. No man speaks for it. The subject is far too exciting. People who die on the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in Austria are immediately burned without an obindication without coming to a diagnosis. Pathologists refuse to perform the obfusion because the disease is so infectious that they fear an infection. In these cases, treating doctors are excluded from the findings of obduction. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this mystery, this cover-up strategy, so that there is no unrest, not to think? In order not to miss out on the British cattle farmers, it is said: Furthermore, feed animal meal, we see that the prices remain half-way. The Austrian farmers, who can't help producing high-quality products, now pay twice as much as they have to pay billions for the burning of British cattle. That's really a horrific thing! ==References== In May 1990, English microbiologist Professor Lacey warned the population: Quit the consumption of British beef! Battle all cattle stocks where an infestation has been detected and have a total ban on exports! – This has already been demanded by the most renowned British microbiologist in 1990. What has the British Government done? – She has been impoverished, she has claimed that there is no risk of transmission to humans at all. ==References== The British neuropathologist, who, by the way, has just made his speech again recently, Professor Roberts from London, the most renowned neuropathologist in England, has thrown the thesis that BSE is not transmissible to humans, saying that this thesis has been greatly weakened and that it is highly likely that the transferability of the bovine animal to humans is possible. Why, I wonder, Mrs Brinek, who is so violently staggering you, are the Dutch slaughtering 70 000 cattle now. We know that BSE is not transferable from bovine to bovine. The government says that the reason for the slaughter of 70,000 British bovine animals in Holland is that they want to protect the population. The reason why many American states are now slaughtering British cattle is that one wants to protect the American population. There's got to be something about it. There you can hide and hide what you want, we need to protect our Austrian market. I have already called for a total ban on imports in 1993. If this had been imposed, our farmers would have been protected. Our Austrian beef could now be sold as a product of the fine food shop in Europe. We could export our beef to the EU at the highest prices. They would tear us out of hand that our farmers would have been the profiters of it. What did you do back then? – The farmers were abused, the peasants were inflamed by the peasants because I showed this abuse because I was the early warner. You started signature actions against me. Farm Chamber President Kletzmayr from Upper Austria has even tried to influence the Freedom Landtagsklub in Upper Austria and means: Get the pumber back, 'cause he's gonna blow us all the beef market together. My dear peasant representatives! If, by the way, my request, which now represents Minister of Agriculture Molterer, namely a total stopover, had been carried out, then we would now have a clean product in Austria with guarantee and also credible before the rest of Europe, and we could assure the Europeans: Our product is clean. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's something good you can buy. That's the fine food shop that fisherman demands. You would buy us our products at the highest prices. At that time the farmers were abused. They were made into handcuffs of the caramels, the meat exporters, the meat lobby and the meat mafia. At the time, you have cheered with the homeless as you have cheered today to the impoverished vice-channer's bowl. Dear friends! If you continue to pursue this strategy, I wonder where this will lead. The EU Commission then adopted on 28 March. In March 1994 – to continue in chronology – Germany's demands – I must say in advance that Germany has already demanded, under the very responsible Minister of Health Seehofer, that truly restrictive, rigorous and controllable measures be taken against the disease of bovine insanity. They were wiped out of the table, and it has been said in the EU Commission that further far-reaching measures in the fight against BSE are not at all necessary. This was said in March 1994. ==References== In February 1995, Commissioner Marcelino Oreja said that the concerns about beef imports from the UK were completely unwarranted. [[Abg. Haigermoser: When was that?]] ==References== ==References== ==References== In August 1995, the first data on Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease was published in Austria. It has been found that between 1969 and 1984 0.15 cases per million inhabitants were registered in Austria, 10 years after that already 400 percent more and 800 percent more in 1995. This significant increase is significant and is directly related to the possibility of transferability from animal to human beings. If you do not want to see this today, if you only see it in five or ten years, it will be too late, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We must take steps against it now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When, in October last year, a cattle farmer was again ill in the UK, this was to be concealed by the British government. The "Daily Mail" has received a fax or a fax, and it has turned out that the researchers of the government committee who have come to believe that a cattle farmer is again ill with this Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have erred in sending a fax to the wrong address. That's the only way that's gotten to the public. It was then also confirmed by government spokesmen because they could no longer be different. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Another well-known scientist from Great Britain, Professor Tomlinson, a renowned neuropathologist, said in a BBC interview: I've changed my mind. So far, I have felt that a transferability from bovine animals to humans is considered unlikely. Now I think this is most likely, and the indications speak for the context. – So a well-known scientist has changed his mind. The British government then immediately said that he had no evidence that this was completely illogical, what he was saying there was no need to worry. Similarly, the EU is doing just as it is already doing the WHO, and we are getting more and more infected cattle on the Austrian market. Who knows – and this has already been said by Mr Wabl – whether the cattle via Eastern Europe do not come to Austria on dubious detours from Great Britain with other stamps. No one can tell me – even the Federal Minister Krammer – there is no British beef coming to Austria. The Federal Minister Krammer can at most tell this to her grandmother, but no one in Austria will believe it anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Heuer suddenly changes his mind. ==References== In December the Federal Council in the Federal Republic of Germany unanimously called for a stop to imports of British beef and veal. This request was rejected by the EU. ==References== In March of this year, only a month ago, three Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases have again become known to British cattle farmers, and now the British government, under the pressure of science and researchers, acknowledges that there can be a connection. Now there is a big cattle crazy hysteria in Europe. Now the case has occurred which our farmers have not deserved: Now the prices are in the basement, now there is nothing to add, now you don't know where to go with the beef. We should have had an import stop already in 1993, when the liberals demanded this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They shouldn't have laughed at us and mocked us, and I shouldn't have received a threat call all night. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Not from you, not from you, my friend, but I got threats. The whole family was frightened by phoneterrorism, personal statements by meat producers, by slaughters we had to let ourselves be liked. If you had put yourself on my side then you would have listened to the demands of the liberals at the time, then you could have prevented a lot of difficulties for the Austrian farmers. Now it may be too late. If there really is a connection, if this disease is indeed transferable from the animal to the human being – and all scientific reports are currently pointing out – then I must blame the Austrian and European governments for serious omissions and negligence. This is nothing but negligence – only to protect the meat mafia, the meat lobby, on the back of the Austrian farmers who can no longer sell their good products. All Europeans are now insecure and do not know whether to eat beef at all. A survey from the UK, which is only a few days old, showed that 73 percent of British people already believe that the government is hiding the entire knowledge of cattle disease and the related Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. That must give you some thought: Three out of four British people already believe that their government is hiding. If one were to make such a survey in Europe, three out of four Europeans would probably think that the European Commission is hiding. 40 out of 40 Members of the Liberal Party believe that the Austrian Federal Government is also trying to hide and impoverish.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11598	Mr Schwarzenberger referred to an actual correction. Please explain the facts to be corrected and the facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11622	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of his speech, Member Pumberger made the claim that 500 000 bovine animals from Eastern European countries had been imported into Austria in 1995. That's wrong! [[Call to the liberals: He has corrected that!]] In 1995, according to official import statistics, 3 681 beef from Eastern European countries came, 3 383 calves from Poland and 163 calves from Slovenia, and only a few, over 80 kilograms, have been imported to Austria last year.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11655	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger goes to the Bureau to report on a personal response. This request shall be rejected.]] That is the same case why I have not recently given a Member of the SPÖ the floor to a personal reply. Nor has the honourable Member Pumberger been personally addressed. It's just been referred to as his claim, and then the area layout has been brought. In this way, constant practice must be pursued by all three chairmen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He is personally affected because it has not been said at all!]] We can change the practice if it is desired, but we cannot make it different from case to case. We will manage this in a uniform manner with all political groups. A personal concern is given when the Members in question are referred to once again and not only his presentation is reproduced. This is, of course, necessary for any actual response. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11692	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the subject and withdraw from the debate on the Rules of Procedure. . The Group of the Party of European Socialists, with the combination of ongoing support to the Eastern and Central European States for their economic improvement and with the BSE-Rinders from the United Kingdom, is trying to make small payments. I mean, there is energy used, energy that could be used constructively to interrupt budget debates in a destructive way here in the High House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let's relativize what we're talking about here. In 1994, 6 900 live bovines were imported from the Eastern and Central European countries into Austria. In 1995 – that was already said by Mr Schwarzenberger – it was 3,600. This results in a minus of 3 300 pieces. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's called a different number!]] You better be careful. That is to say, it is tried to make a mosquito an elephant in order to be able to perform media-actively here around 4 p.m. to make a calf out of a calf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] Thank you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's right, brother-in-law, you won't succeed!]] The price is – and this was also noted – on the beef market in Austria, but not only with us, but also with the entire European market in the cellar – but, Mrs. Aumayr and Mr. Dr. Pumberger, not because of the price policy, not because of the eastern imports, but because of the lack of consumer confidence in the quality of beef. Now I ask you in honour and conscience: Faith Do you really think that these contributions are here today designed to strengthen consumer confidence, restore consumer confidence and help Austrian beef producers? Another aspect. A few minutes ago – it has already been more than an hour in the meantime – Mr Holger Bauer has addressed the problem here on the labour market. As a result of the lack of confidence and mistrust in Austrian meat production, farmers, processors, butchers, butchers and trade also put thousands of jobs at risk. Therefore, my request to you and my invitation to you: Use You use this energy, which you use here, destructively work for positive advertising for Austrian products – I have missed it so far by the agricultural representatives of the "F" movement – and also use this energy for a positive advertising for Austrian products abroad. There is an opportunity for me to discuss an answer to this question in principle. Mr Firlinger has already referred to the fact that changes in agricultural policy can no longer be achieved by us alone, by small- and medium-sized enterprises, nor by church-tower thinking, but by large-scale, for example, within the European Union. Let us, together, address changes in the common agricultural policy in the European Union, let us see our way of agricultural policy, as the social democratic side has repeatedly called for and supported it, also there! Work with us for more greening in agriculture, for more extensive farming practices, for more extensive economy and for support for the small farmers' structure! Then such things as they are being discussed here today can no longer be so easy. I should like to ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for support in your role as Foreign Minister to work towards this in the framework of the common European policy. Another aspect, especially towards "F". If we are all the while talking about the need to redistribute and that we are confessing that we have to support the Eastern and Central European economies, so that there is a standard of living there and that an economic area is created for us – we are not always self-sufficient – then we must also allow ourselves to be able to drive the economy and that the Eastern and Central European countries can trade with us. Let us forget, Mr Reichhold, that for a few weeks nationalism, we forget this national church tower thinking and the regular attempt to point out with our fingers all that is foreign, and try to work together in Europe to achieve economic policy and also to benefit from European economic policy for us. One more point. In my opinion, Austria as a net payer can also play a pioneering role in European policy. We already have a pioneering role in the field of organic farming in the European Union with our 10% share of the total. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] It is still not enough, but we are still pioneers, Mr Wabl. Let us take a further step as a pioneer in the European Community by changing the common agricultural policy and taking measures to combat fraud within the European Community, which has already been addressed and is quite possible, by means of incentives and also by means of imports and exports. We Austrians with our high quality production can take on this pioneering role. They will be accepted, and if we do so together, we will enforce them as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11761	The next speaker is Mr Mathias Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11783	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister! When we submitted a proposal about two months ago aimed at imposing an import ban on English beef, we were confronted with almost equal arguments in the public: incompetent, populist, nationalistic. Two months later, however, the ban on imports of English beef was imposed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For a very specific reason, we have called for this answer to the question: The beef markets collapse, the feed stocks end. Mr Gartlehner! You're not affected. They can't feel what it is like to have a stable full of cattle and no longer know how to feed the animals because they have become inconvenient. I am affected and appalled by what cold, with what heartlessness, with what superficialness about the fate of thousands of farmers in Austria is being discussed here in this House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural speaker of the Austrian People's Party, who represents 90 percent of the Austrian farmers here, makes himself and defends imports from the East. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The farmers know that the FPÖ is not a representation for them!]] It is not about a few cattle or a few calves that are imported, but it is about meat, it is about processing products. They are likely to escape the fact that 80 tons of meat from Romanian meat mafia in Salzburg, where you are at home, was secured 14 days ago. Yes, at last you'll get down and get what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is heard from the words of the Vice-Chancellor that he really does not care about the concerns of the farmers. It is entirely up to him to see how jobs can be secured in the farms, how farmers who have to work hard can cope with this disaster. The ÖVP Commissioner from Brussels comes to the Tyrolean mountain world and advertises English beef, although he recently propagated Austria's fine food shop. What are the farmers, who are desperate about this difficult situation, to face a situation that threatens existence in Austria, and what are these people to keep from your agricultural representation, from your farmers' representatives, from your agricultural policy?- Oh, my God! That's a farmer's betrayal you commit, but it's not a representation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The farmers protest against the FPÖ! The FPÖ makes consumers insecure so that they no longer buy beef!]] Against the background of these fates, we have today updated with the discussion of this answer to this question. We want to draw attention to the fact that it is not only about exercising solidarity with the English farmers, but also about helping the Austrian farmers in this difficult situation. As a net payer in the EU, we also have the right to demand money from EU funds to help farmers overcome this difficult situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You can't cheat on your responsibility. I am also firmly opposed to constantly trying to work with nationalism and some ideologies, although we really want to point out a serious problem. Mr Federal Minister, I expect you, as Foreign Minister, to show you once what the EU can do. Fischler and also Molterer have said that this problem would not be solved without the European Union. - Yes, I agree. We are now in the EU. But then you will show the Austrians what the EU can do to restore consumer confidence in order to ensure their existence! We also demand that those safeguard clauses which you have spoken about during the accession negotiations and which are also enshrined in the Accession Treaty, which prohibit imports in the event of sensitive market disturbances, no matter where the imports come from to save our own market, in order to save our own jobs. You can't get over here with any common places. What is particularly shocking to me is that our own professional representation, the Chambers of Agriculture, is silent on this issue. In Germany, I am reading – probably also in the European trade journals – a ban on imports from third countries into the EU is already being discussed, with the sharpest controls being made, because of course it is not possible to deny that the hygiene situation there does not comply with Western standards. But although provenly depraved meat passes the Austrian borders, the authorities sleep, the farming chambers sleep and let the farmers jump over the blade. In this game, Mr Schwarzenberger, as long as I am a farmer, as long as I can represent the agricultural interests here, I will not play along with it, nor the entire Group of Liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11871	The next speaker is Dr. Salzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11892	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Over a year ago, in the context of a debate on agriculture, I referred to the problem of low-cost imports from the Eastern European countries. Neither the feeding conditions nor the breeding conditions can be controlled, but the real origin of the animals is often unexplained. Nor can it be ruled out that animals and animal products from irradiated areas via the detour of the Eastern European States come to us on the detour of these trade-favoured countries. We have already called for more stringent controls on radioactivity in the slaughterhouses. Just, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has happened to this day. Instead, the export rate of these countries has been increased from 425 000 to 500 000. With this additional offer of low-cost incentives and the current BSE scandal, the domestic beef market has collapsed to a large extent, and our farmers are forecast to lose around 1.8 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Firlinger here has said that the British cattle breeders could not do anything for the cattle craze scandal, that is simply not the case. For it was precisely these cattle breeders who fed contaminated animal meal to their animals. Not because this food would have tasted the animals so well, but because of mass animal farming, because of the fact that this large number of animals of course also needed a large amount of food and that food was not available, and on the other hand because it was cheap. Mr Firlinger! If you thought that these problems were only to be addressed in the EU, only in the EU-wide, you would be seamless in the "narrators" as the journalist Leitgeb recently wrote in a daily newspaper. With regard to Minister of Agriculture Molterer, he has carried out in a gloss entitled "A Minister and the Fairy of Cattle" that the Minister would have a great talent for "swandroning" and "flunnker". He wrote that the children might soon call the ministers "Rindviehwilli" because he appears as a fairytale narrator and just as you meant: Only the EU saves us from the madry of cattle. But it was precisely the EU that, because of the low market prices, forced British farmers to feed their animals with this cheap, contaminated animal meal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What would have prevented us from having an import stop? We could have done so without the EU. Just as the Minister of Agriculture seems to act as a fairytale uncle, the Minister for Foreign Affairs does. He tells fairy tales here about the ÖPUL program. It was precisely our liberals who, with your consent, secured the farmers the funds for this public service programme. Ladies and gentlemen! If Dr. Schüssel says that these 500 000 animals from the east would only be mast animals, I must stop that it is probably the purpose of mast animals that they are slaughtered after the mast and then placed on the market as meat, as meat products. It is probably more than possible to say that it is not about meat. Ladies and gentlemen! We have not been an island of the Blessed for a long time, nor in economic terms, as it is currently documented in the budget debate, where this government is attacking the Austrians with an incredible load package, or in a diseases-hygienic, in a policy of disease, not only with regard to the current problem of bovine insanity, but also with regard to the often unmistakable origin of the animals from the East. It is simply not a question of the fact that the Minister of Agriculture has recently said in a reply to a question in the main committee that the BSE scandal is a British scandal and there are no imports of beef from Great Britain in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This has been demonstrated, and there are importers who themselves admit that they have imported beef, such as the company Weiser, which says that they have imported at least one tonne of high-quality beef from the UK at least every month via a parent company. There are about ten suppliers in Austria, which have been shown to have placed British beef on the market. I already admit that this meat was mostly very high quality meat and thank God until now no damage has caused here in Austria. We can be glad about it. We can be glad that, in Austria, we have such good police regulations, that our animal disease law has excellent quality and that up to now the control has worked quite well. Only this control, ladies and gentlemen, will be much more required in the next few years. Instead, one tries to undermine this control. For example, one wants to get away from the live investigation in the EU's meat investigation. But it is precisely in the life test that it can be determined whether the animal may show central nervous symptoms and then excite them before slaughter. Should this live investigation fall across the EU and thus also in Austria, there is a major problem, and our consumers will no longer be sure in the future, no matter where this meat is transported, that they will not get BSE-polluted or otherwise contaminated meat on the plate. So there must be no erodement of these controls, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we liberals are very sensitive, particularly with regard to the quality of our food, in view of the fact that consumer quality will continue to be offered in the future, with regard to imports from the East, which, as has been pointed out, are often uncontrollable. We want to protect our domestic agriculture. We want to ensure that, as is currently happening in Britain to an unimaginable extent, it cannot happen in Austria, not necessarily with regard to BSE, but with regard to all diseases that can come to us from the East via the EU detour. That is why we are calling for restrictive measures in the current situation. A desire from us liberals concerns an import ban on these animals, since, as has been said, in the current difficult economic situation, our domestic farmers are under massive pressure. We demand compensation for the damage suffered by our farmers, because our farmers cannot really do anything to make them the sufferers, even though they have produced quality quality according to best knowledge and conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11958	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e11980	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Your opinion on the case of cattle disease today reminded me of your speech before joining the EU on Semperit-Werke: a lot of Blabla and many untruths, as has been pointed out today. At the time, you claimed that you had everything with Japan, that everything was under the roof and the compartment. In reality, we are facing the situation today that the Semperit plants are likely to have to be moved to the Czech Republic. Mr Minister, I would like to say one thing to you: Saving In the future, you will see such appearances to Parliament to the detriment of the Austrian economy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! According to the market report of the Chambers of Agriculture, the discussion on the beef-and-veal is a disaster in beef sales and producer prices. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What market report of the Chambers of Agriculture?]] This is a market report by the Chambers of Agriculture. I don't have him here at the speaker's desk, but he's at the top of my square. Minister! In such a situation, to demand solidarity with England's cattle barons, but to forget the Austrian farmers, this is embarrassing for an Austrian minister and for Austria's farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Where does that actually stand? Where did I ask?]] Together with Mr Fischler, who is also a member of the ÖVP, you have called for solidarity. Fischler wants to deceive consumers more or less and without conscience demands that English beef be consumed in the future. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Where does what you say happen now?]] Here is a question answer from you. I even have these with me. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Where does what you're telling me come from? What answer was that?]] I can show you this: This is an answer to the question of 27 May. March. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: So you're not discussing today's topic?]] I am talking about solidarity with the Austrian farmers. At the time, you asked for an increase in eastern block imports, Minister. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: So you're discussing past?]] I am discussing my request, and we will continue to do so. Minister! I'm really asking you personally: Where are your measures for Austria's farmers to protect the farms in Austria from a disaster, because this disaster is on foot? Austrian farmers will have to stop, and Commissioner Fischler recommends that English beef be consumed, which has caused this madry in cattle. I'm not coming with it at all! And we should, out of solidarity with our tax money, not only with that of the farmers, but also with all of us here, from all professional groups, support this insane EU agricultural policy. I just don't play with that! Minister! I urge you to have an import stop for cattle from the reform states as soon as possible. Minister! I would also ask you to ensure that the seal of quality, like that of the Chamber of Commerce, does not deceive consumers in the food sector. That is clearly what I want to stick to here. For if it is enough today that 52 percent of the contents of Austria must come, but the rest can come from somewhere, then this is a smooth consumer deception. This is something that consumers do not like, or I don't like it in particular! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you to prohibit these seal of quality, which do not guarantee 100 percent of ingredients or products from Austria. I cannot prevent an industrialist today from processing products from abroad. That's clear to me. But this industrialist is not allowed to use an AMA seal that farmers have to pay with their AMA contributions. That's what I'm really determined to do! I would also like to ask for one thing because this debate is always about sausages, which contain 75 percent components from the country and which may contain 25 percent components from abroad: The content must come to 100 percent from Austria, except for some spices which we cannot produce here in Austria! And that's the whole case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor.]] Yes, I know, Mr. Kaiser; I'll come to you later. Minister! I would also ask you to ensure that the Austrian farmers' representatives finally take care of the concerns of the Austrian farmers and not the concerns of any lobbys, especially some meat mafia. This must not be a concern of the representation of interests, not concern of the Austrian Chamber of Farmers! – Mr Schwarzenberger! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Most of the livestock dealers are free!]] I don't care if they're free or not. This is a disaster for consumers and for farmers and not for slaughter dealers. I would like to say that very clearly to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: Because you're talking about the disaster!]] Minister! If I continue to follow – I have this in writing here, that is again from a request answer from you, namely on 27 May. March 1996 – that the Austrian representatives, including those of the farmers, have given their 100% consent to this import increase of cattle from the former reform states, I must say: This representation of interest did not deserve the farmers, who had been abolished and the forced membership as well! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kaiser! Your call today, and also that of Mr Schwarzenberger, to conjure up consumers and to sell them almost stupidly – for nothing else meant this call; I say that to you – I think, as I said, that it is dangerous and unreasonable to consumers. My reigns! If today, in the main committee, a representative of the Chamber of Labour who, according to his own statements, has the protection of consumers, and you ask this man to actually betray the interests of consumers and to stick to your insane agricultural policy, this is really an advantage. So it can't continue in that state! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why the farmers choose the Farmers' Federation! Because they don't like the FPÖ, which only criticizes and does nothing!]] I know, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A FPÖ that only criticizes without presenting its own concepts! – In Styria, you did not have a single seat in the agricultural chamber elections!]] Your insight comes a lot late, for you can still remember it: If you had not denied the objections of the liberals to these seal of kindness in the committee at the time, then we would not have this problem today, then we would not have to talk about this problem today, then we could say with a calm conscience: Everything on which the AMA seal picks, on which a "A" picks, is goods that are produced 100 percent here in Austria. – That’s the point! You want to sell that to the consumer today or some people should sell it to the consumer, although it is not true. This cannot be done against consumers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I therefore call on you to finally act. Request the Federal Government to correct the damage that Austrian farmers have suffered through a, in the truest sense of the word, insane EU agricultural policy. compensate the farmers, practice solidarity with the Austrian farmers, and if these Austrian farmers have enjoyed their solidarity, we can take care of the English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12193	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12214	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate which the liberals are discussing today has a very topical background, and even if there are emotions to be expected on this issue, it should not be forgotten that, as never before, the question of consumer safety and the interests of the local peasantry must be considered in a uniform manner. The question of imports and controls, whether they come from Eastern Europe or whether they are taking place within the EU, has adopted a huge dimension, as a result of the debate on bovine insanity. And that is why we cannot blame those who, like our liberals, are trying to clarify themselves, to protect local agriculture, to protect Austrian consumers, to insure consumers and want to fish in the murky, as said by an ÖVP member today. I'm really wondering: What can an opposition still be in Parliament, if it is already said that fishing is murky, one is insecure the population? Then we must not talk about unemployment either, because then we are of course insecure many people who have not yet thought about whether they could not be unemployed even tomorrow. Is it really so, Mr Schwarzenberger, that not the perpetrator is guilty, but the victims are guilty? Is it really your philosophy that not the culprits are guilty, but the culprits get blamed? And we want, Mr. Cot... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: In Austria, there was really no BSE case yet!]] Leave You're looking for what we're going to hear in the next few days! Be careful with this argument! There will be a lot of light coming from "no single case in this direction"! It cannot be said that those who cover the right of democratic legitimacy take advantage of it, whereas those who discover – as we liberals – are constantly accused of insecurity this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! To find out, more than a year ago, we liberals told you that there should be a general stopover for this beef from Great Britain. You didn't listen to me, you made us ridiculous. And today you are the ones who say: Only as quickly as possible have an import stop to protect local agriculture! – That’s the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to remind you that this applies to several things: When the break of coalition occurred in the autumn, the Minister of Agriculture forgot to do the public support and the directives in good time, it was not provided to farmers. There was a sudden need for the liberals to be involved, even though we have drawn your attention to it months before: Get the money in Brussels! Drop Down You'll have the guidelines in time! – At that time it said: Panic of the liberals! We got it all under control. We'll do it. If you had not been able to form a majority as an ÖVP with the liberals, the farmers would have looked through their fingers that they would not have gotten a schilling. – This is just to remind you of how things really look. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: In the course of the European debate before the 12th century, the Freemans panicked. ==References== The liberals say the water is at risk. The EU may also be able to tap our drinking water reserves and redirect them to the south. Panic mache, it's called. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger is about to leave the hall.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Just stay there when we're talking about panic, so the next time you know you don't have to blame us. Stay here! 14 days ago, your own Minister for Agriculture, Mr Molterer, said that there was a danger that our drinking water would be lost, so we would have to take protective measures. - So, who's panicking now? Rightly we were liberals on it! We have rightly represented the Austrian interests! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies, of course, to all the import bans, and the same applies – I can tell you today – to changing the transit procedure. Read German comments in the journals! The customs authorities say that if the EU transit procedure takes place, we will no longer have control over the eastern imports of goods, because then the customs authorities in Germany, in Austria, in Italy, will no longer be allowed to control the goods, the goods will be assessed and sealed during shipment at home in Eastern Europe – and then it will cross the border. How can you control whether the quality is actually the one that then insists on the cargo papers? Why can German customs authorities point out this? Why is the accusation of panic being made here when we show and present the issues that are important and which need to be taken in good time? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Two years ago, you predicted the invasion of the shields!]] Mr. Col., quite right. And what do we have today? We have discussed the thyroid, and today we have an adult genetic engineering discussion in the food sector. Of course! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Their members of the EIA in the European Parliament have voted against the obligation to sign up, that is the reality. We have voted in favour of ensuring that the local consumer is protected accordingly. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what it is all about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Already in February, there was a conference of agrarians. I take this away from a paper written in the President's Conference and in the Chambers of Agriculture, in which it is said that we now have to find a way to place a general entry-level stop on the ÖPUL programme for farmers. – The ÖPUL programme, which is seen as the great miracle weapon in EU agricultural policy! That's where the Ministry of Agriculture says. 2. already agreed with the agricultural stakeholders that there will be a general stopover. And in an accompanying letter from the Conference of Presidents to the Chambers of Agriculture it is stated that it is in fact not legally sustainable, because, according to the current literal quotation, no such provision is still in force and a corresponding amendment of the Special Directives will not be completed quickly enough. That is, there is no entry stop for the Austrian farmers into the ÖPUL programme, but you order it as chambers on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. They are selling this leaflet where, contrary to the EU Directive, there will be a stopover for Austrian farmers! Mr Schwarzenberger, what are you saying about this? Infringing an EU regulation unlawfully, you order an entry-level stop and know very well that you can ultimately be held liable. Should I quote you from this paper of the Presidential Conference, Mr Schwarzenberger, so that you can really accept it? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But it is also inside that organic farms can enter at any time!]] Can I quote what the Presidential Conference says you've been listening to for years? – This is without prejudice to the criticism that the measures taken so far in connection with the entry-level stop are legally problematic because there is no entry-level stop in the previously known Special Directives. That means that you order something to the Austrian farmers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] Yes, what are you as chambers? Are you now the bundle of a government policy that no longer has money – or are you the representatives of domestic agriculture? You'll have to decide once. This is a smooth betrayal of the farmers' interests, that in the interests of budget scarcity they say to the farmers: You can no longer enter an OPUL programme, but this is still valid under EU law. That's exactly the mesh we always criticize. That's exactly what you're going to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you know very well that this procedure is legal, because there is also a liability problem, Mr Schwarzenberger... [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Schwarzenberger and counter-calls at the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger, give me once again your appreciated attention! You know that a liability problem arises because it is stated in this Minutes of the Presidential Conference: As a result, a apparent increase in legal certainty, if the farmers are misinformed, cannot be avoided in this context. For the applicant, the problem of the obligation of proof for the investigation work carried out in connection with the entry-level stop could be given. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] That is, if the chambers do not prove that the farmer gives them written evidence: I am aware that there are no more opportunities for entry into the ÖPUL programme!, the Chambers of Agriculture are liable if the EU continues to maintain open access to the ÖPUL programme, but the Austrian Government does not want to do so because it says: Unfortunately, we have no money in the budget. What kind of agricultural policy is this? We have great public-sector programmes, environmental programmes of the EU, which will lead local agriculture to new heights!, while the local agricultural policy in Austria says, unfortunately, we have no money in the budget, so we lie to the farmers and say: You can't join us anymore, we're sorry, the train's gone!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly the dual nature of your agricultural policy, which we have shown here and which we want to highlight here. That is why it is necessary for us to deal with it in question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Remember how you brought us down when we said that there should be a constitutional anchoring of the premiums for agriculture, so that the farmer does not have to be the beneficiary of subsidies! You yourself have said - I know what you want to do - that Mr Fischler himself has said here in Parliament - that he is in favour of a constitutional safeguard. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You explained that you would reduce half! In your "press hour"!]] And then you let yourself get small again and have packed again with the socialists and have fallen over again! There has been no constitutional security, and the farmer is the beneficiary of subsidies today and depends on whether or not You have an entry stop or not. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: And you wanted to cut the subsidies by half – according to "press hour"!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! There's nothing you can do about the question. The farmer depends on whether you have an entry stop now or not. They lie to the people, tell the farmers, unfortunately there is no more OPUL program, even if the guidelines are still valid. And here I have to tell you: This is the really dangerous turning point in the agricultural policy that you are today... – Well, I think something else is happening to you, but you fall under the Styrian right of mitigating, which is why come [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: What is this diction?]] You are not in favour at the moment, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have shown you something on the basis of documents from the President-in-Office's Conference, which reveals the attitude of agricultural policy, which proves that we are talking quite differently from what is actually being done here. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: All well-informed farmers have already entered last year!]] I am looking forward to the actual correction of Mr Schwarzenberger, who will come out and say: Yeah, but the organic farmers are allowed to get on. The ÖPUL programme, Mr Schwarzenberger, is much larger than the still very small area of organic farmers in the narrower sense. Is it really in your sense that you tell the farmers that there is an entry stop, which according to the EU does not exist at all? Is that really your opinion? Do you really want to defend that? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I never said that!]] But, please, that's in your papers! The Federal Farmers' Association has said yes, the Landesagriffententenconferencing has done, and the Presidential Conference has done so. You all know. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: This is a five-year contract!]] – "Starter stop" is there, in your papers, dear friend! "Introductory stop" is contained in the Ministry's guidelines. I've got the fact sheet here. You can no longer distance yourself from the fact that farmers are tried with false arguments to take away a foundation of existence. - And we'll stop that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12441	No one's been reported in the word anymore. This debate is closed. Resolution of the reply to the question 126/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12463	Next, we will come to the required discussion of the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 126/AB. Here again, the above answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. The speaking time is 15 minutes. Mr Rosenstingl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12495	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, much has been said about the 60-billion package of the agreement between climate and then Staribacher. This 60-billion package has also provided many discussions. Therefore, it is now necessary to light up the processes, all the more so than your answer, Mr Federal Minister, is not sufficient and you are now a lot different than it actually happened at the time, and are also different than you yourself explained it a few weeks ago. In your answer, for example, on page two, you have a real child-moving. You now think that there can be no mention of a 60-billion package at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Five times twelve is 60!]] First of all, five times twelve 60, and a 60-billion package is available. Secondly, there was the agreement between you and Staribacher at the time. But, Mr Federal Minister, perhaps you distance yourself because you were not the driving force in this agreement, in this illegal procedure. Because not you as Minister of Transport were the driving force, not even the then Minister of Finance Staribacher was the driving force, but the driving force was the Social Minister, but not in his capacity as a Social Minister, but in his capacity as a railway trade union. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was never a driving force!]] This is a bit interesting: We have a division of competence among the ministries, but in the Federal Railways Policy and, as we now see, also in the budget policy, the saying does not have the Minister of Finance and not the Minister of Transport, but it has the saying of the railway trade unionists. He initiates such things – and he has admitted what is actually embarrassing for you, Minister of State. ==References== Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is at last the agreement, and all of this is done on his business, at his invitation. Federal Minister! It is unfortunate that ministers can be led and run by railway unions and can not become active and initiative themselves. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, you have, however, reached an agreement which was not covered by law. It is therefore your answer that there was no such thing, quite simply incorrect, because your press spokesperson at the time told us that there was this agreement. And your press spokesperson at the time also meant that it was already a credit authorisation here, so you wanted to replace a law with this agreement. Federal Minister! If this had been your own initiative, you would have, I suppose, taken it back. But since this was not only said once, but more often, I must assume that he said so at least with your consent. They cannot, therefore, distance themselves from the statements made at the time and answer our questions unfairly, as if there had been no such thing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We do not stand there alone with this criticism. There has been criticism from all sides – also from ÖVP-side. Mr. Kukacka did. 1. In 1996 it was a strange lightning action for out-of-budget measures of the Federal Railways. Or: Mrs. Rauch-Kallat took place on 7 July. 1. In 1996 it was an incomprehensible process. It was a legitimate criticism, but now this criticism is unfortunately silent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Since the ÖVP is back in the government, reasonable principles – including the ÖVP has sometimes reasonable attitudes – are thrown over the pile at the expense of government participation, Mr Kukacka. It would be important for this area, which was mistreated at the time and which is still giving rise to some questions today, to be dealt with very neatly and conscientiously. Federal Minister! They are now founded as Minister of Finance – I must say, with a certain level of naïveness – debt companies in post and train, companies that serve to cover the budget, companies that will be substantially burdened on us in the future. Your answer in this area is extremely worrying. On our question 14, which concerns the repayments of the debts that will be received, you think, repayments will be made mainly from the recovery fees. It is therefore not a matter of government debt. – But you have a problem with accounting, Federal Minister. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is bad for a finance minister!]] Yes, this is worrying for a finance minister. They want to finance 60 billion in the next five years, according to the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. 60 billion schilling then, if they are really financed, cause almost as many interest rates – if not more; it naturally depends on the interest rate – as if they were even used. Even if one expects an increase in the rate of use, it would not be enough to cover interest and debt. This simply cannot go out – the less so, Federal Minister, than you want to use the benefit fee twice. They want to spend the use fee of almost 3 billion schilling twice. No one has yet succeeded in spending the same 3 billion schilling twice. In fact, they want to cover not only the 60 billion, but also the 16 billion old debts you have distributed with this benefit fee. Federal Minister! Let's calculate again: 60 billion Schilling Investments plus 16 billion Schilling Old Debts You pay back with almost 3 billion schilling or pay all interest for it. Federal Minister! I'm sure it won't go out! It remains open – and this is the thoughtful thing in Austria – that another 25 billion Schilling debts can not be covered at all by the train, which is probably already much more important today, Mr Federal Minister. It is therefore really worrying which budgetary policy you are pursuing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These projects with 3 billion Schilling benefit fees clearly show how unreasonable your budget policy is, Minister of State. Since you cannot cover the above mentioned from these charges of use, we will again have Maastricht-related debts at this rail debt company. That is why your answer to this question is incorrect, in which you believe that this has nothing to do with the Maastricht criteria, which are not Maastricht-related debts. – These will certainly be Maastricht-related debts! Once again, as has been so often, you have answered inaccurately. But regardless of the Maastricht relevance, it is important for us that in a few years all these debts that you want to divide into a debt company will fall on our minds. It is therefore also incorrect to answer your inquiry, in which you think that these debts will automatically be repaid. That's not going to happen. At some point, the Federation will have to stand up for it, and sometime it will have to come up with grants. Federal Minister! All these incorrect answers are either a rupture of Parliament, because you simply tell us falsehoods, or, if it is not, if you do not know, Mr Federal Minister, then these incorrect answers in the budget policy are a danger to Austria. Federal Minister! Your answer to question 11 is even a contemplation. We wanted to know from you what EU rules are meant on this issue. They give us the answer: The Minister of Transport will take this into account. – Minister of State! As Minister of Finance, you should know what EU rules are meant. And if you do not know, it is unfortunate for you, Minister of State. You are constantly telling me that you do not know anything that you do not know how to deal with the money, that you do not know what we have requested. Federal Minister! We expect you to present the answers to your questions properly, for example, to quote the EU rules when we ask for them. Unfortunately, all of this has not happened. Federal Minister! They have given us incorrect representations in many areas. They did not answer the questions properly. We therefore expect you today to give us a final explanation of how future debt will be covered and how you will see it with the breakdown of debt in the future. Federal Minister! Take note at last: Politics includes honesty and no concealment of sovereign debt at the expense of our children and subsequent generations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12585	The next speaker is Mr Edler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12606	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl, you said that driving force was also the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hums, Chairman of the Railways Union. I say the following to you: I am glad that there are driving forces on the issue of investment in rail infrastructure. There are currently particularly driving forces in the economy. I hope that Mr Hazelsteiner's speech will address the fact that it was at the time a right decision to make this agreement and to create investment opportunities for the future. That was a real policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it is said that this is a 60-billion schilling-ÖBB package, then I must say that is not at all true. These investments are intended not only for the ÖBB but also for the high-performance trains AG, for the Brenner-Eisenbahngesellschaft and also for private railways. This is defined in this agreement. It has always been stressed, particularly by Mr Klima, that this was a preliminary decision which must also be taken in the discussions on structural adjustment in relation to the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. We have already discussed this in the Committee on Transport. As Minister for Transport, Mr Scholten has also provided answers to this question. The above-mentioned society – we will do that on 18 November. It is particularly important to ensure that funds are spent on April. It will finance this through the collection of user charges, but also, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to promote projects through the EU. I would also like to mention the fact that negotiations with the countries, with the regions, are currently taking place, that the regions are also concerned, to contribute and to finance. Ladies and gentlemen! Also interesting is a study by Wifo, according to which of 100 percent of investments in rail infrastructure 60 percent return to the value added for the federal government and thus for the state as a whole. I think that is very positive. As far as the ÖBB share is concerned, of course preparations will also be made there. At the last meeting of the ÖBB Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board has dealt with this as a result of the reporting of the Executive Board. It is not only a question of providing high-performance routes, but, in particular – this is very important for the regions and for the agglomerations – that local and local transport facilities are also extended. As an honourable Member of Vienna, I would like to point out that, due to the development of transport in the EU region of Vienna, in the eastern region, we need a particularly high level of catch-up in terms of the expansion of rail infrastructure. Negotiations are currently taking place on the so-called 30-billion-shilling investment programme for the Großraum Wien, in which the S7 – Vienna – Preßburg – high-speed trains are particularly addressed, or the S 80, from the Südbahnhof in the 22nd century. Wiener Bezirk, with extension to Niederösterreich. These are essential projects which are absolutely necessary, but also important for employment policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of ÖBB will certainly still be addressed by one or another colleague. But I would like to say the following in my speech: The ÖBB – and I won't let myself say that! ., especially the colleagues from the railways, last year provided services in freight transport and travel, which can be seen. For the first time since 1945, the Austrian Federal Railways have reduced the total wage costs. Therefore, due to the change in the organization, there is a great saving pressure, a rationalization pressure and – as a trade unionist I say "sufferer" – also a reduction in personnel. However, we will have to support these reforms, and I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is very positive, which is currently being implemented in the ÖBB business. Mr Rosenstingl also criticised legal requirements and asked if they voted. I would just like to say: If we look at the Federal Railway Act 1992 more closely. Then we see that the Federal Minister for Transport and the Public Economy is obliged to take precautions and close the framework for financing infrastructure. I believe that this has clearly been presented by the Federal Minister for Climate in the answer to the question. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary – I say that again –: It was a right decision to take timely precautions. In fact, if the competent Federal Ministers had not made any provision for agreements in this respect, this would be justified and asked: What has been done by the Federal Government? – Yes, it was right that the conditions were created for these investments to be carried out, namely right, forward-looking investments. The decision is therefore positive for Austria's economic location, for an offensive employment policy, but also for an environmentally acceptable transport policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I personally thank the competent Federal Ministers in the government and the entire federal government for creating these conditions. Our task in Parliament is now to create the necessary legal framework for the rail infrastructure financing law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12674	I call Mr Haselsteiner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12695	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement between the two ministers in question was marked by a dramatic deterioration in unemployment rates. I also believe that date 11. It was not a coincidence in December. It was – and this is also quite legitimate – a decision that the public should be informed of before the election day. In principle, I believe there will be broad agreement here in the House on the need to develop the railway infrastructure and its proper financing as a first priority for this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] I do not want to hide that I am in the construction industry. More interested in it is also one of the few indications or approaches that the structures in the construction industry are at least not too dramatic and that we may be able to spare ourselves the experience of the past weeks and months that have been associated with pleas and related unpleasant consequences in this sector – whether they are economic or they have been taxing themselves. Therefore, I do not want to hide that this rail infrastructure financing law is a hope for the construction industry and for me as a subject. On the other hand, in order to be critical of you, Jörg, from the outset, so that we do not have problems with each other, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we would of course have wanted this law to be introduced here with other preparatory work and other accompanying laws. We regret, Minister, that this great package and this 60 billion schilling have been added in the framework of a structural adjustment law, such as between door and Angel. I do not think it is good that this large sum – in the end you will have to represent it for many years, even as it has been used – and it has not been debated or debated under this enormous time pressure, that, with the exception of today's questioning, we will have no opportunity to do so. I would also like this financing law to have preceded a debate on the sensibleness of existing structures in the rail sector. I think, Mr Federal Minister, it must be legitimate to question whether the parallelity between ÖBB and HL-AG is useful. I'm not talking so much about the Brenner Planning Society, we've been talking about that. We have agreed to this law, although with critical remarks, because we do not see any other way – in this short period of time – and because we do not want to block things. That's why we agreed to this "Brenner Law". I believe that the structures – Brenner, HL-AG, ÖBB – would have to be questioned. This is not an ideal situation and not an ideal form of organization. We have to note that parallel structures sometimes leave the original reasons to become obsolete, which were there: higher speed and faster decision-making. I believe that this is really one of the serious disadvantages, because HL-AG is to be as beneficial as those 60 billion schilling like the ÖBB or the Brenner Society. I also believe, Minister, that a critical remark is appropriate if you are here to answer your question as to how these resources are to be used. If you point out here that the beneficiary societies can borrow loans or that models of private-public partnerships are in mind, I will allow myself to point out that "remember" is not enough. You and I know that we are more distant than ever in the area of rail infrastructure of implementations of private-public partnerships. I also see no obvious way of introducing such new and desirable forms of organization. You know, international capital markets are already blocking more profitable projects, and international project diversity is increasing. All Eastern states are expanding their high-level road networks with such models. They offer higher returns than we can probably offer them in Austria with the rail infrastructure. And because of the high mobility of capital, these funds will flow where, at the same risk, the higher return or the lower risk will be found at the same rate. I therefore believe that optimism is not appropriate to this extent. Federal Minister! The same applies, of course, to your statement that we can market train tracks. Even here, if at all, I see only a weak decline in hope and a weak opportunity to compete with the modes of transport, as you believe you can realize – although I naturally want to agree that this must be the objective and will certainly be the goal. Another critical comment, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to allow myself to answer your question on question 13: They refer to the savings efforts and ultimately say: In addition, in the field of the ÖBB, it is important to ensure that, regardless of the resources available for investment, staff costs and operating expenses of the infrastructure sector need to be continuously and sustainably reduced – and then some of the same statements continue. I think, Mr Federal Minister, that, apart from good will, there is actually little to be noticed. I believe that the measures that need to be taken – and they are certainly extremely difficult to implement for your party in particular – are not yet sufficient. We already know that this is one of the hot irons if a professional group operating in the protected area is to be exposed to competition at once or at least the standards that a competitive economy would require. I believe that reasonable transitional provisions need to expire at some point and that the same rules as they are of course applicable in the competitive economy. Federal Minister! I also believe that the statement on question 14 is misleading, or perhaps false hopes awaken false expectations, if you say – I quote – that: Under the provisions, the funds of financing to be provided by the new company should not in any way come mainly from public bodies which would be allocated to the public sector, but should be financed from the benefit fees. I agree essentially with this account: 70 billion schilling, which must be financed or operated in total. After inflation and other measures in this law, there is probably an even higher sum, but even if we only assume 70 or 80 billion schilling, you know, Mr Federal Minister, or if you should know that it has to come mainly from public funds, otherwise you would have to report bankruptcy with this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12767	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12789	Mr President. Minister! High house! I believe that this debate on the question of the response initiated by the FPÖ is a really extremely superfluous action, which has no justification at all. This morning, you have made a loud and wordable complaint by the liberals that these budget accompanying laws are to be whipped through, now you are talking about problems that have nothing to do with them, but elsewhere. For example, we should discuss on Thursday when we will adopt the new Rail Infrastructure Financing Act, in Article 93 and 94 of the Structural Adjustment Act. Then possibility would have been enough... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Excuse me, an investigation on the matter! - You know the Rules of Procedure?]] Of course I know the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After the Rules of Procedure, we have an ongoing session by Friday, so we need to talk today about the answer to the question.]] Yes, but the discussion of the answer to the question is neither urgent nor necessary, because you could have put all of this to the discussion. That's quite clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Learn the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Rosenstingl had nothing to complain about the question, which would have been justified in fact, but here he wanted to provoke a discussion on this law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has no idea of the rules of procedure, the man!]] That is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The man has only an idea of alcohol problems!]] The answer to this question does not, in fact, leave any question open. There are some critical responses – even I myself have sometimes suffered from them – but they certainly do not belong to them. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, On Thursday at the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, you could have addressed and presented all these problems, criticism points. In addition: We also had legal concerns against this 60-billion package and this agreement between Transport and Finance Ministers. We have also made a request on this subject – but already a day before you. And all that we've put in it, you've taken over in your inquiry. But, ladies and gentlemen, this has been done since the time the Federal Government made it clear: Yes, this financing package for the Austrian Federal Railways and the other railway projects is poured into a clear law! – This law is before and is to be passed on Thursday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call:On Friday]] With this Rail Infrastructure Financing Act, the railway development is put on a clear, solid and transparent legal basis. The railway knows exactly how much it can grow in the medium term – that is, for the next five years. The Minister for Transport must determine by means of a regulation what specific infrastructure expansions are now to be achieved. This is important and good for Parliament too, because so far the Austrian Federal Railways have been able to do it alone. The Minister for Transport must now define a regulation which is precise and which, by means of this regulation, confers this extension of the railways. Before the regulation is adopted, the Federal Railways must submit documents on scope and costs and timetables so that it is quite clear how these projects will develop and can then be reviewed by the Ministry and Parliament. If this Rail Infrastructure Finance Act were not, then extra-budget debt would actually increase – or investment would have to be stopped at all. So you see: This Rail Infrastructure Finance Act regulates the open points. I am very glad that the Minister for Transport has also made it clear that he has awarded a study on the economic development of the projects. In addition, the answer to your question is that he has commissioned a study on project planning. That is to say, what we have long called for, namely that there should be a clear list of priorities, an economic and economic priority for railway development. Ladies and gentlemen! The answer to this question was neither necessary nor urgent nor appropriate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now the answer is no longer necessary! - That's embarrassing!]] This has to be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! You keep talking about shifting traffic from road to rail, but when it comes to making it clear, making the finances available, then you don't want to have anything to do with it, then always try to find a hair in the soup. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a party-political encounter, that's a forward-looking hack for which we don't understand.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12924	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e12954	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In order to rule out any misunderstanding at the outset: The Greens are, of course, happy about every schilling that flows into public transport. Over the last decades, too big was the difference in competition, the discrepancy between modes of transport, the difference in the financial investment that has flowed into the road – significantly higher in scope – and the railway infrastructure on the other hand. One can understand this by means of extra-budgetary indebtedness for road construction and rail: about 75 billion shilling extra-budgetal indebtedness for road construction and around 16 billion shilling for rail. That the consequences of the actual traffic situation in Austria are logical is absolutely understandable. This is precisely the consequence of the transport policy of the last decades, which has clearly been placed on the road from the funding point of view of road transport and which has led to the average increase of 3 to 4 percent per year in road transport – for example the OECD Test Report. With the continuation of this policy, the ozone problem, the entire environmental problem cannot be addressed. This is the one side of the medal, ladies and gentlemen, but on the second side: Mr Rosenstingl has today called on the Minister for Finance: Especially honesty would be asked from your side! – That was an important sentence. It is always important that, when politicians discuss, one appeals to honesty. I wonder, however, where honesty remains in this argumentation by Mr Rosenstingl when the political criticism, the political agitation of FPÖ by two Siamese twins, namely infrastructure investment in the road construction sector and investment in the rail sector, is currently and in the last weeks, months and years the railway infrastructure is concentrated exclusively on this area, while in the road construction sector, where almost the same investment and infrastructure models are available, FPÖ is not heard at all. This is about the "holy" cow drivers. That's not what the FPÖ wants to do. This too is populism. If you are already talking about honesty here in the House, I would expect you to practice with us the same criticism of the system of road infrastructure investment as in the rail sector. I would just like to say to Mr Haselsteiner: I am glad when those affected come to mind, and Mr Hazelsteiner is a double person on this subject. I also understand that he has put HL-AG at the centre of his criticism. I can imagine that if you run an almost billion-dollar process with HL-AG, the relationship is somewhat strained. Okay. Don't worry about it. The people concerned should make policies, even if they are affected in a different way. This too is quite legitimate if you put it on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But much more important is the question: Can one really get the railway out of the crisis, if one can get public transport through this rail infrastructure financing law? Can one really realize a massive step forward? In fact, I feel that the negative developments of the last decades, for me also the ÖBB law – a law that I believe is unsuccessful, which is increasingly forcing the ÖBB from the national economic point of view into a purely commercial objective – so that it is not corrected, but that a flicking plant is being rewritten, where it is not yet certain whether even at the end of the year the ÖBB and thus the railway industry itself will pay the tokens for these investments. We have the result of this transport policy in recent years and also of the ÖBB legislation on the table. ==References== In June, the action "Minus 10 per cent" on different routes, i.e. 10 per cent less train kilometres on Austria's railway lines. There are also still large mancos in transport policy and in the direction of clear project decisions. All this has not been repaired. It is good and right that experts have been working on the development of a federal road map for some time now. But, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: The completion and presentation of such a concept is overdue in order to define precisely this priority in order to prevent, or to prevent, this line, which priorities are set on which route, and also to prevent an improper and absurd parallel infrastructure between road and rail, which is expensive. Secondly, there has been no repair in the area of the ÖBB law, a repair that is already overdue. And there are third – and this is a very essential point – neither prioritisation in the railway projects nor a local financing law that would bring a clear financial security of the individual modes of transport. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I do not expect the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act to be a miracle, but rather – quite the contrary! – a continuation of the flickwork. You just need to see who the fathers – mothers I can't say in this case, they were fathers – are these infrastructure laws in the area of road or rail. There is a very interesting development: There is suddenly an unknown civil engineer from West Austria, who is found by a consortium of four construction companies – this is also legitimate, Mr. Hazelsteiner; I notice your critical view, your company is not there, I know, there are four other companies – namely Romberg, STUAG, Strabag, and the company Porr is commissioned and paid for the preparation of infrastructure investment concepts for the railway sector and for the road construction sector. These four construction companies pay for a civil engineer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the light of these clients, would it be surprising that the results of this package and these systems presented by this civil engineer fit precisely into the corporate policy of these four companies? Who would be surprised that the tunnel work area, for example, would have been used in the long term by a Porr company in the implementation of these concepts in Austria? Who would wonder – and this is also legitimate, Mr. Hazelsteiner... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What about the invitations to tender?]] With invitations to tender, Mr. Hazelsteiner, we have had some experience in the construction sector in Austria, and you are probably the most intense – much more intensive than I am at least. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised that the result is on the table as it is. But that practically ung’ looks at transport ministers, finance ministers and economic ministers taking over the plans of this civil engineering engineer, which were implemented on behalf of four construction companies, and that I am very surprised at the long-term nature of a legislative work – actually in two legislative works – for the railway infrastructure and the road infrastructure sector. I am used to Austrian lobbyism, precisely because of my activity here in this House, and I am aware of it again and again – but I must admit, as I have said, that even those concerned should report to the House – but that a civil engineer is designing infrastructure systems on behalf of four construction groups, which are practically taken over by the relevant ministries, is already a strong piece, which is actually an unknown "performance" that comes to Lobbyism in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are still some questions to be resolved. It has already been mentioned the date of the conclusion of this package, I believe, by Dr. Hazelsteiner, namely the 11. December. The motivation for this may not be too difficult to guess, but the second point I found very interesting was the answer to Mr Rosenstingl's question 6 as to how the budget allocation for these 60 billion is to be made. In view of the savings package, I have always thought that it is likely that 60 billion will not be so easily spent from today to tomorrow. I know that this Minister of Finance has unimagined abilities – that is what they say – compared to his predecessor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is not difficult with such a predecessor!]] But spending 60 billion schillings, that may also be a difficulty for him. I was very amazed when I read the following sentence in the answer to the question of how to bring up a package of 60 billion schillings, which actually gave me a nice piece in the analysis of this law: I quote: On the issue of funding for the 60 billion schilling, it should be noted that many possibilities are open. - Yeah. On the question of the allocation of funds for these 60 billion – I repeat – it must be noted that many possibilities are open. – Is it nice that many possibilities are open, but so "precision" I would not have expected it in the course of a request answer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, the addition is very interesting – I quote again –: However, the main source of revenue will be the use fee of the railway – parentheses: correctly not only... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Minister! They have indicated three or four possibilities, but have not specifically explained how the funding is actually going to take place. They have presented us with potentials. We also know that there are various ways of raising capital. But you didn't tell us how this will actually go over the stage. You have remained guilty of this answer to this day. It is a problem to make investments in this scale. Main source of revenue – so write It – however, will be the cost of use of the railway – correctly, of course, not only the ÖBB. Let us keep in mind the current financial situation of the ÖBB. – I talk a lot to railway workers, to railway trade unions, to ÖBB board members – not even so many of them – and they are actually talking about the financial situation, the hugely thin financial ceiling of the ÖBB at the moment and the extremely difficult economic situation of the ÖBB, which this company has come into, especially since the ÖBB Act 1992. Let us imagine an ÖBB, which already speculates whether it should not sell the power plants to maintain the economic consolidation of this company. – There is a nick on the part of the ÖVP, as everything is obviously legitimate when it comes to selling out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr President, this is a follow-up cost for the railway, because the electricity has to be somehow paid from the resources of the ÖBB, which are nevertheless scarce. This, in turn, means flickwerk for the ÖBB budget, and that means that the ÖBB's financial disaster is a bit delayed in the medium term, but then hit more harshly. The same is true of the situation in the use fee. Of course, these incredible sums are not small in terms of the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, which is necessary for the refinancing of at least 60 billion, of course, this cost of use will not be limited. OeBB Director-General Draxler has already proposed this to you publicly. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Do you know the Court of Auditors reports?]] Of course, this means that every train kilometer in Austria will be even more expensive. What does that mean, Mr. Lukesch? – This means, of course, that the priceless competitive situation between road and rail will continue to develop into disfavorable rail. That also means: The transport policy of this government coalition will continue to strengthen in a negative sense. More and more people will be on the road, quite simply because the train cannot keep up the priceless competitive situation with the car in the long term. If the environmental policy is not indifferent to us – I am sure that the head of my colleague is not wretched, he is an environmental politician, he does not want to be as many others in this House as the traffic situation develops one-sided towards the increase in car transport – if this is not indifferent to us, I very much respect Ladies and gentlemen, then we have to consider a repair of the ÖBB law, and then we also have to consider whether this form of refinancing with a high use fee...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13028	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13045	... in the long term, within the meaning of an environmental transport policy, it is useful and feasible in the sense of the company ÖBB.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13075	The next speaker is Mr Mentil. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13097	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Kukacka is not here now, but I recommend him: He should not worry whether or not discussions of responses are important; he should leave that to us. We already know why we demand such answers and why we want to know about them. Mr Kukacka himself was very critical in this causa, only when he received the millions of motorways, he made his criticism of the wardrobe. But that's what's left him. Mr Finanzminister Klima! In fact, we should not have a transport discussion with you today, but that is going to overlap. However, I would like to address you today primarily as Minister of Finance. When you explained two weeks ago in the "Time in Figure 2" – so loose from the stool – 12 billion schillings make you available – the interesting is yes, you are talking about financing, and that, although there is no such thing, I thought it was not harmless. Why isn't that harmless? – If you order something without having a financing plan, you can easily run the risk of getting rid of the financing problem. That is what we know, and Mr Haselsteiner must know that too - the problems of the entrepreneurs or the bankruptcys of tomorrow. It is true - I say this because of my 30-year professional experience as an entrepreneur - that the federal government or the public sector does not necessarily have the image of a good payer. Therefore my concerns and my request to consider these things. Further: What kind of example does this have for our youth? – She hears news, and the Minister of Finance says climate, he makes 12 billion schilling available, only: There is no funding for this. Then why is the young man who buys a car supposed to think about whether the funding is secured for it? – I don’t think that’s a good example, so you shouldn’t do that, even about the media. These 60 billion schillings, which you take up in 5 times 12 billion by the year 2000, but have no funding for them, will not count on the operation. You will have to live with the fact that you can achieve the maximum interest by using it – and that is the thoughtful thing. I'm actually wondering why the SPÖ representatives are more or less emotionless, although the employee's chamber's budget expert was on 23 March. February warned and stated that these budget tricks cost taxpayers billions. – An expert from the Chamber of Labour said that it did not invent the MEP Mentil. The expert at the AK also wrote that you are increasing the budget deficit, but this will make the budget room more difficult. This said Mag. Bruno Rossmann, budget expert of the Chamber of Labour. Within 12 years, according to a list of the Chamber of Workers, the extra-budgetary grey credit shots alone of the federal government amounted to 265,5 billion schillings. You shouldn't ignore that. One should also consider whether the concept is 100 percent correct. I'm more concerned about this, and I can also tell you why: Because you do not follow a federal road map, because it comes first. And you may then insist that you have invested billions, but for nothing, because this investment does not fit into the concept. First, build and then create the concept, which seems to me very questionable. If Mr Kukacka does not do all this, it is his good right, but I suspect that there is already a certain lack of understanding on your part, Mr Kukacka. You should never have run a business, so you're making it a little easy in these things. But what's added is: You are already building, and you have already realized some things in part. Then I read: Railway constructions are the opposite of the target, and I am already asking a few questions. – By the way, I now quote from an ÖBB press release by the then Minister of Transport Streicher of 4. May 1987. Highly interesting! So quote: The overall solutions allow a real alternative to individual transport. Vienna – Salzburg: 1 hour 58 minutes. Graz – Vienna: 1 hour 41 minutes. [[Abg. Edler: We're building them!]] Perfect, you're building. But now we come to reality, that's what it says: Reality 1995: Driving time Vienna – Salzburg, although partly already built: 3 hours 18 minutes, listen carefully, Mr. Edler. 1996 for the same route: 3 hours 25 minutes. – So something should not be quite right there from the conception. [[Abg. Edler: That's a pendulum train!]] Minister! I don't want to be barley to you. I know you were a big financial expert in the ÖMV, but it's always a difference whether you're selling your own money, whether it's your own money, or whether you're working in a group where repairs of wrong decisions are easier. I, Mr Klima, have the feeling that you are not necessarily the great maker as the Minister of Finance, but it is possible that you will teach us another better.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13161	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13182	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A few findings of a general nature on the need for investments in public transport. It has always been the goal of the liberals to get traffic from the road to the rail. For many years I have been local transport spokespersons of the Freemans in the country of Salzburg and therefore have a special relationship with the railway. I hope that the investment for the expansion of the railway infrastructure will go quickly over the stage. We must be clear about the following: The challenges of transport through the east opening, through the north-south transit, cannot be solved by the road alone. There must be a massive increase in rail infrastructure, otherwise we will not succeed in overcoming the environmental challenges associated with transport. Mr Kukacka has stated here that he is pleased that a study was commissioned by the Minister for Transport, which will then appear sometime in the summer. In this regard, I share his opinion: A study which sets out a series of priorities from a national economic point of view, including other criteria, is undoubtedly good and important. But: The remarks of Mr Hazelsteiner – who is no longer in the hall – could be seen as a participant, as a person concerned, perhaps even as a party in this discussion, allowing the conclusion that, although no opinion has yet been delivered, there has perhaps been no study. I do not dare to say that formal contracts have already been awarded, but that is not entirely excluded. If Mr Anschober has said here that we liberals should not speak against improving railway infrastructure, but rather in connection with the extra-budgetary financing of the road, I must correct him: We have always been against budget veils, against extra-budget funding – also in the area of ASFINAG, also in the field of road construction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Federal Minister, have answered questions 2 and 6 in your answer: There is no doubt that agreements such as those made can by no means replace the legal basis in the form of a federal financial law. That's why you agreed that your statement was made on 11 November. In December, this pact was no more than a pre-electional campaign to promise the citizens something for which any legal basis was missing. They also said that it was in no way intended. – The impression you have given to the public, however, was very likely that there is already a legal basis for this. They also write – I quote –: "It is therefore not necessary to take account of the Federal Government's budget programme, which is why there is no violation of this law." And in the next paragraph it says, Minister of State: With regard to the issue of funding for the 60 billion schillings, it should be noted that many possibilities are open – Mr. Anschober has already quoted this – with funding from the Federal budget as imaginable as the mere granting of federal liability. Federal Minister! What's right? You do not need to provide for anything in the budget programme, but on the other hand you are talking about the possibility of a budget from the Federal budget. What do you want now? A budget from the Federal Budget? Then this is also to be foreseen – if not, then you also have to exclude a budget from the Federal budget. Otherwise, this is a contradiction in itself, Minister of State. – But you don’t seem to be interested at all! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I do not in any way agree with your reference to the fact that you are the main source of revenue for financing the use of the railways. The past has already taught us, Minister of State, that your statements on financing by means of extra-budgetary measures have not always been found. I should like to point out the following: As a result of the distribution of the ÖBB to the sales sector of a debt backpack of 16.2 billion schillings, you explained to us, Minister of Environment, that these 16.2 billion schillings would be covered by old debt from property sales of the ÖBB and rental income et cetera, to the full. But already on the 11th. It had to be found that this was not the case. Interesting is the statement of the new head of the new real estate department of the Bundesbahnen, Heinz Redl, who calls the deduction of the 16.2 billion schilling on old debts of the ÖBB unrealistic. It must be broken directly on the tongue: They, Mr Minister, repeatedly explained to the House – in reply to questions, in contributions to debates – that these 16.2 billion schillings were covered by property sales, but recently the head of the ÖBB Property Department stated that the maximum interest rate service could be performed, and: At present, only half of the interest rate service has to be covered. Federal Minister! Their financing models are truly on tones! As always in such a case, the budget and thus the citizens and taxpayers remain on the track. Similarly, proceed with the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. There is an article 6 para. 2 – I quote –: 60 percent of the financing for rail infrastructure investments and the financing of the costs of credit operations can be identified by the company as a claim to the federal government. The costs of this financing shall be borne by the Federal Government. Federal Minister! You know very well that this 60 billion schilling or the Interest services from this can absolutely not be made out of the benefit charges. The Federal Budget will therefore be called upon to do so. It would be better for you, Mr Federal Minister, if this funding had been found in the budget – even in the sense of budgetary truth – if that had been stated there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In the context of ÖIAG's subordinate loan, the House was told that the repayment – although only at the end – will be made through the privatisation proceeds. If one assumes that the previous privatisation proceeds are used and takes into account that a strategic core is to remain in Austrian hands, about 25 percent, one must say: These privatisation proceeds will not be expected to be used to repay this 6.8 billion schilling for subordinate loans granted by the federal government to the ÖIAG or which he has taken over. Again, there is a danger that your financing mode will not be in line with the fact that once again the budget will be burdened by the citizens and taxpayers once again. Mr Edlinger has explained that these 60 billion schillings can also be spent on the financing of local transport – an excellent thing in itself, when the financing is in order. I may ask you the question – although you are no longer Minister of Transport – whether in these planned projects the extension of the third track from Salzburg to Freilassing is also included. You were long enough transport ministers, you know this problem. I should like to point out here, as a Salzburg Member, that it has repeatedly been said in various replies to questions and in discussions by the Federal Government: There's no money for it. I ask you: Are you ready or are you able to say today whether this infrastructure, this third track from Salzburg to Freilassing, will be included in this 60-billion package? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: The expansion of the apparent transport is an urgent necessity. The only thing to do is to stick to the truth in financing and not to put in a sluggish funding again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13302	I declare that the request made by Mrs Rosenstingl and my colleagues to decide, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, that the written reply to the question to the question referred by the Federal Minister for Finance to the written question of 100/J by Mrs Rosenstingl should not be taken into account. We shall vote on this after the end of this debate, in which Mr Klima and then Mr Magistrate will be voting. Stadler. The introduction refers to this vote. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13326	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that you are giving me the opportunity to present here, on the occasion of this budget debate, my transport policy ideas and ideas, which I was able to develop as the Minister for Transport responsible for four years. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] As I have been informed, this speaking time is not counted on any time blocks of speech, i.e. I now have hours of time to give the appropriate explanations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Böhacker: We ask for this!]] I would also like to ask you to understand that I am taking a step further, that, if you wish, I make detailed preliminary remarks on this and that I am particularly concerned about the conditions for transport policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: We have full understanding!]] We cannot assume, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone – perhaps the members of the "F" club – is going to follow the example of their chairman, but that is not going anywhere else – will continue to move in the face of marathon. That is why we are forced to expand the transport routes, and we are forced to expand the roads and the railways. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] You're driving what? [[Abg. Böhacker: Inline skates!]] There you go, too. It's a competition. I don't know what to expand there. [[Abg. Böhacker: along the tracks!]] But I will try to explain in detail the points you are discussing, especially when it comes to how we want to develop the necessary infrastructure in the future, ladies and gentlemen. They know that the expansion of infrastructure should also be done through new financing ideas, with private-public partnership models, both in the area of road and airports as well as in the railway. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a partnership. All the invoices that Mr Haselsteiner, for example, employs, assumes that 100% of private funds must always be used. It's not like that. We know that there are quite different percentages of private-public partnership models in Europe, but also worldwide. Therefore, in particular, the answer to the question of the allocation of funds is the only true and possible at this time, because there must be a search for financing partners in a project way – and that has always been clear. They know that there are, for example, very interesting possibilities in the area of the so-called Preßburger Bahn, i.e. the S7, from private-public partnership financing models, where an exceptionally large part can be covered by the cost of use, i.e. tolls, in the area of rail. And it would be totally impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify, at the present time, the specific shares for the individual development projects, how much partnership the public can bring in here. For this reason, the answer is only marked by an indication of the financing possibilities envisaged in principle. Mr Rosenstingl referred in particular to the various EU rules. Don't be angry with me. If you look closely at the agreement, you will notice in this article that there are, of course, various applications of EU rules for the award of rail infrastructure, which need to be specified in the respective specification. These are tendering directives in the same way as the directives on the use of, for example, rail infrastructure in relation to charges. That is why the answer from my point of view has been sufficient. As far as the question of Maastricht conformity is concerned: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you use capital – be it capital that you receive over shares, through the stock exchange or also through loans – assets, then there is not only the equity form about shares, but also in the meantime, for example, about foreign funds, about liabilities, the possibility to include only the capital service, i.e. the interest, for example, in an agreement, because the asset is the opposite of the recorded capital. This is a share equivalent form of foreign funds; you will surely know that as experts. That means: What's important? It is important that the interest-rate burden of the funds to decide the Maastricht relevance can be mainly covered by private revenue, more than half. And as private revenue within the meaning of the definition of the EU, the revenue of the self-employed ÖBB is also considered as well as the other railways. So I did not, as you say, Mr Rosenstingl, answer question 14 untruely, but in accordance with the relevant regulations and directives. I am convinced that I have now dealt with your open points with my somewhat shorter reply. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Excellent!]] And after the Members are all here, I should also like to thank you very much for your attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13434	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13455	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister of State! The problem of the answer to this question is not all the technical and financial questions which my colleagues have already raised and of which they also understand more than I do, in particular how to finance the whole thing or whether this can be financed at all. There are some votes with us who believe that this cannot be financed at all. But the problem I see and what I would like to draw your attention to is, Mr Federal Minister, that you obviously have difficulty complying with the legal order of this Republic. Here you seem to have some problems in the leadership of your ministries. Because if you are already in the preamble of this agreement between you and your moderately successful to not successful at all, only in the organization of its successful predecessor Staribacher concluded on the legal basis of § 2 para. 6 The law of the Federal Railways, so everyone would have to - everyone! – it has been noted, in some way, by contract law or even by public law, that this legal basis, if at all – I doubt that it is capable of such an agreement, but if not at all – could only be in respect of the public transport sector, but not in relation to the other modes of transport mentioned here. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I knew that!]] You knew? You know that this is not a suitable legal basis? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I said that!]] No, no, Minister, you didn't say that! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I said it!]] No, worse still. You signed it! No, you refer to § 2 para. 6 Federal Railways Act as the legal basis of this agreement and have signed it. They sign an agreement, Mr. Minister - legal problem No. 1 - and appeal to a legal basis of which you know that it is not suitable. Mr. Minister, what kind of a gesture are you taking care of? & Sign Do you have any more such agreements? Then I have serious concerns about the management of the resort in which most of the money is managed. & Sign You have several such agreements, in which you refer to a legal basis, of which you know that it is not suitable, of which you know that, if it is already in question with regard to its suitability, it is not applicable to other legal entities at all? That's where you sign contracts relating to this legal basis? Mr Minister, this is the problem you have: They don't care about the laws! This is the difficulty in leading the resorts. That's why you will also have problems with a watchful opposition. And just as you obviously handle it, that you say: "Did I say that? I never said that, I just signed it!", it is suspected that you will continue to do so. That means you challenge us as an opposition. You know what, Minister, we're just doing it: Be so nice and provide us with a copy of your contracts that you sign. We will then examine whether they have a legal basis at all or not. If that is your usual practice, I have serious concerns about the way in which you deal with the property of the Republic and in particular with the legal order of that Republic. Second point: In the answer to the question referred by Mr Anschober, you will answer the question of financing in particular of these high-performance lines AG in the manner already cited: There are various possibilities, for example through credit, through private-public partnership and more. Minister! May I ask you to use your attention to the law once. In § 11... [[Abg. Eder: Principal Teacher!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Eder: Teacher!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone in there calls on him to comply with the law, then he becomes the superinstructor. If a minister who has taken an oath to the Constitution disregards the law, then he is a hero with the Social Democrats, even though they are laws which these Social Democrats themselves have brought in and decided on. [[Complaints with the liberals]] But that's not new. Mr Haider has already pointed this out today. It is not the porters who are in charge, no, the detectors, not those who are responsible for the malaise in which they have brought this republic and in which we are today, but the bearers of the bad news. I'm still making another attempt, Mr. Minister: Please note on this question how you would like to finance HL-AG, § 11 of the relevant law, which was passed by the Hohes Haus. This law states that the financing of this HL-AG must be through the ASFINAG or through the Federation, and not through your nice partnership and what you have called everything as a possible source of funding. Have you noticed that there is a law here? Minister, look, the law looks like this, it's published in the federal law paper, and there's inside what you're allowed to do and what you're not. [[the speaker keeps the copy of a federal law paper up to date]] If that's why you shave a devil, then you as a minister are unbearable over time! You have made an oath to the Constitution, and you also have to respect the legal order of this Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next point, Mr Minister, is that you are trying to calm down Parliament and the opposition by saying: We know that this is not a suitable legal basis – and I wonder why you will even conclude contracts if you know that they are not suitable. You also know that you do not have the appropriate legal basis for the conclusion of this Treaty, but you say: Dear Parliament, be calm – I quote –: "However, since such acceptances of liability have not yet been pronounced, there can also be no violation of § 66 of the Federal Budget Act, which regulates the adoption of such liability." High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister gives nothing else to... Mrs Fekter, are you just bringing the law to the Minister, or are you delivering him with a new contract? Do you need a new contract? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The Minister knows the law!]] No, the Minister doesn't know the law. He admits that he breaks the law, he admits that he has not yet completely broken it because the liabilities have not yet been taken up. This is literally stated in his answer to the question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Read this once a bit more critical than your party press service allows, ladies and gentlemen. He admits that he has already made a criminal attempt that would lead to any other citizen as an executional act before the Kadi. Our minister admits that he has not yet fully violated § 66 of the budget law. He has, as his press spokesman Szekeli admits, started the attempt, he has tried to lead money past Parliament, past the law to the Austrian Federal Railways without having legal coverage. [[Abg. Grabner: That's unlikely!]] He has tried this up to 60 billion – this is a small thing, I know; with a government that has spent the money with both hands over the past 20, 25 years, the peanuts – pass by the law, and he admits that too. Minister! That's not unique with you, that's a permanent state. I recall the scandalous procedures in the GSM licensing process, when in the special session – we were glad that the Freemans had to ask for a special session again – in November the state which the Minister had already brought about in summer without any legal cover. Minister climate does not care about the law! Minister Klima does what he wants! The Parliament has to carry out what Mr Klima has already committed in advance to this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, to do. This is a process which is only a decisive one. No, and that is why we are not going to take note of this answer today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13604	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Please take the seats now, we come to a vote. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades not to take note of the answer to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Resolution of the Questionnaire 130/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13644	We also reach the required meeting of the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 130/AB. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that under the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 15 minutes. Mr Haigermoser spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13678	Ladies! Gentlemen! After Stadler's finalized transport crime, the AF-Krimi, Federal Minister, is now coming. Granted, you have only been dealt with this foreign trade contribution history in the final phase. That is why Mr Peter's request, after numerous activities of the liberals have preceded this request. Ladies and gentlemen! It was very interesting to listen today and to listen in particular to the words of the ÖVP Members who meant that there was now once again the Distorted Freedom Party, since now the Liberals are on their way again to address areas which are not at all interesting. I am eager to say something stupid, Mr President, which I think has to say on this subject. Mrs Fekter was scheduled for the first time. Obviously, the tuber-closes have driven her into the bones so that she has withdrawn her word message. I am anxious to say that 1.5 billion Schilling has been illegally withdrawn from the Austrian businesses and, despite the final decisions, no brighter, no big one has been brought back into the business registers until now. These 1.5 billion schillings are more than four times the amount for the BÜRGES action, which you are now shortening in one year for small and medium-sized businesses, ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly very interesting for those Members who are new to this House, if I now briefly list the moritant ones that the admiring public around this AF contribution had to take note of. It is an eerie story, ladies and gentlemen, with a sad climax. Now a new moritat is joining this piece of the socialist coalition, ladies and gentlemen. Let's remember: There was a judgment of the Administrative Court of 24 December. In November 1994, Mr Bundesminister, in which the illegality of the AF contribution was clearly established following the entry into Austria of the EEA. At that time, a hearty entrepreneur had to act against the Chamber of Maderthans, that is, against his actual representation of interests. A hearty entrepreneur had to process against his own representation of interests and go to the highest courts in order to get him right against his representation of interests! This is almost adventurous. This hearted entrepreneur has gotten right, ladies and gentlemen. So it's a moritat in continuations. The EEA Treaty, ladies and gentlemen, clearly states that the collection of an AF contribution, i.e. a customs charge, is contrary to the currents of this legislation within the EEA. – In the cited opinion of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office of 4 April 1973, the Court of Justice of the European Communities (Federal Chancellor's Office of the Federal Chancellor's Office) referred to the Court of Justice for a In 1994 it was made clear that in Austria it was clear that this collection was illegal. Despite this finding, then Minister of Finance Lacina has maintained this method of collection, which is contrary to better knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! In this point, the red thread draws to my mind from Stadler's remarks: Law and law obviously do not apply in this country as long as this socialist coalition is in the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was unlawfully collected, contrary to highest court judgments, unlawfully in view of the view of the Constitutional Service at the Federal Chancellor's Office, unlawfully in respect of the provisions of the EEA Treaty, unlawfully in respect of ESA knowledge and also in respect of an ECJ judgment which was already in force on 20 July. ==References== You did not know all of this, Mr. Cot stupid? ==References== 1. In 1995 the following words were written: "The contribution was never called into question as an EEA unlawful." – This is a literal quote from you, although my quotes, which I have given the best, prove the opposite, Mr former State Secretary! At the latest, a look at the Brockhaus is worth the following: "Lying is a consciously false statement calculated on deception. It is also present when facts are deliberately kept silent or colored." Ladies and gentlemen! That's what you should write behind your ears! As a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing was going to be another wet crown by saying that the companies should not be upset because they had already let these AF contributions into the calculation, that is, already cashed and should actually be quiet. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. That's how the story on the market really doesn't work anymore. In the event that this would vote your thesis, we could even raise taxes until Himalaya and say: That's what's included, the market's swallowing it anyway. In any case, 1.5 billion have been charged, and the companies should not be upset. – That’s not how the economy works, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] After the liberals have always drilled the hard boards, one has now gone a bit further. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, there may still be a hearty businessman who asserts that the whole thing is a bearer's debt after Minister of Finance has said that this is a debt, that is, that it is not necessary to pay back at all, but that everyone should stop at the financial level and be introduced so that he can come to his little size. – Then the money became too hot for the bottom of the pants. In the reply to the question to be discussed today, and in reply to a previous request to Staribacher, which was initiated by the Free Trade Association, it was heard that the reimbursement of the external trade contributions which have been wrongly collected is carried out by the customs administration under the charge of the current federal budget and is independent of the refund by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. It is therefore necessary to repay it in the form of a debt. What climate now says is also interesting. Federal Minister! I would ask you to listen to this story! I do not want to disturb your tete-à-tete, but it is an important matter, even if you as the Federal Minister are not responsible for what I would like to have clarified here. But you will now have to settle this debt of yours. They say: Reimbursement of the external trade promotion contributions which have been wrongly withdrawn to the companies shall be effected in the course of an official action. We have heard that the financial resources of the bottom of the pants have become too hot. – Now I'm describing to you the import of Haigermoser GesmbH, as it is now. I have a letter of recent dates here: My company has approached the forwarders due to these of your intentions and has received a letter from the 20th century. 11th@item: inlistbox In 1995 these external trade promotion contributions were reimbursed accordingly. ==References== 2. In 1996 there was an answer from the forwarding: Subject: AF refund. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken note of your request, but you still have to ask for patience." After more than a year! "A question at the customs office of Graz has shown that it will take some time for the amounts to be credited to us. Once we have received the credits from the customs office, we will immediately pass them on to you. At one time we ask for attention and remain with kind greetings." It's legally secured and all right. Yesterday, a letter to my GesmbH flew me from the same forwarding to the house. This is urgent now, gentlemen, interesting and not insignificant, because it is about 1.5 billion. Federal Minister, this is important now! In this letter it reads: Subject: Reimbursement of AF contributions. We shall be informed by the competent customs office of those imports and thus of the fees paid by us and further charged to you, which we paid in the course of a customs clearance for the company." So it was recorded computerly what my company paid to finance and to the Chamber of Commerce. And now it's gonna be very thick. On page 2, it says: "We therefore ask you to use the accompanying form no later than 30. 4. 1996 to return." It is demanded by the trader that he select the data he has already supplied and fed into the computer with acribie once again, and that all this be listed with the suspicion that the people do not do so and then at least half of these 1.5 billion remain in the cash office of the Minister of Finance due to the burden of work. That's the community! I hope you're not behind this action! Because the procedure now required has nothing to do with "official". You do not treat this as a bearer of yours, as you promised in the answer to the question, but as a culprit on the part of the trader. It would have been a smooth lie if you had knowingly presented this in your answer to the question as a source of guilt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm not gonna put that on you. I only dare to remind you now, Minister of State, not to tolerate such a procedure. In addition – but I do not now throw the freight forward – it is said literally in this letter: "For our performance we charge you 10 percent of the refund amount concerned, but at least 656 S. This amount will be deducted from us in the credit of the refund contribution to your company." So that means: For lending money to the Chamber of Commerce, we received no interest. At the time, we had to pay charges to the freight forwarders via the customs declaration. And we are now being deducted by 10 percent or a base amount, ladies and gentlemen! What do you say, Mr Maderthaner, about such a procedure? What do you say about this procedure that at least half of these 1.5 billion will no longer be repaid? You know, in particular, that the small and medium-sized economy has been burdened with red tape without numbers. On the one hand, on the one hand, you are now starting actions against bureaucracy, on the other hand tolerate and promote such practices! Ladies and gentlemen! That's going to be Do not let the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party go through. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm curious about what's going to add stupidly to this moritat, how he'll get out of here, whether he'll say: What are you excited about? as he has already done it several times. That's what he said: It's not that bad, it's already flown into the calculations. – What are 1.5 billion already in the wastes that this socialist coalition practises every day? 1.5 billion are more than four times the cost of the BÜRGES action, Mr President. You said you would like to set in motion an entrepreneurship and a wave of founding. However, with such measures you destroy jobs, bring new costs to businesses. The additional wage costs will rise once again and the competitiveness of the Austrian companies will thus be stopped. Federal Minister! Finally, I trust in you in this causa! Make If you are bringing these things into debt, do not reopen the incassacrel by detour, you will remain true to your inquiry answer: Then you will have the Austrian economy on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13805	The next speaker is Member Dr. It's stupid. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13827	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're experiencing here, I don't know, I think, 27 or 28. Let's go. Let's go. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: To 34. Let's go!]] We're going to experience 34. Let's see how the liberals scan something where there's nothing to scandalize. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to put things in the right place. Let me just make a few remarks at the outset. First finding: In Austria, we have a system of external economic support, which benefits us all over the world. Second finding: Every second job in Austria depends directly or indirectly on export. Third finding: This foreign economy is regularly examined by the Court of Auditors. The last Court of Auditors report stated that the funds were used in a fair, reasonable and appropriate manner. Fourth observation: We live in a rule of law. Any citizen can go to the courts at any time if he believes that he has been violated in his right hand. This has also been done by the Unilever Group. Unilever has intended to have been violated in its rights as the AF contribution is not EEA compliant and Unilever has been granted a right. In a rule of law, this is quite a legitimate, right process. Fifth observation: Ladies and gentlemen! One must distinguish between two legal relationships... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're not the Minister!]] But we're talking! If you want an answer, then be careful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] We must distinguish: We have two legal relationships. We have the legal relationship of the taxable person, that is the relationship between the holding and the financial management. The Chamber of Commerce has nothing to say. And we have the legal relationship between the Federal Government and the Chamber of Commerce, which was a promotion relationship from 1954 to 1994. For the AF contribution was a federal levy: In accordance with the law of the Finance Ministers of the Chamber of Commerce, 92.5% of these funds have been committed to ensuring that the Chamber of Commerce is more cost-effective, efficient and economical than the State could do so. - As far as the facts are concerned. It is a problem, of course, because the official legal opinion of Austria – which was not individual votes, but the official legal opinion of Austria as a result of an opinion-making between the Federal Chancellor's Office of Constitution, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Chamber of Commerce, until the judgment of the VfGH – has declared: This AF contribution is EEA compliant. There have been individual opinions... be careful! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! I have the letter of the Constitutional Service here!]] The four have expressed their opinion. That one of them has had a different opinion, no one argues! There have also been individual opinions. But the official opinion of the Republic of Austria was: The AF contribution is EEA compliant! In its opinion, the Court of Auditors said: The AF contribution shall be implemented at the time of accession to the EU. - Everyone knows what that means. E contrario means: not yet in the case of EEA accession. That's what the Court of Auditors says, it's all legible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The judgment of the Supreme Court counts; no question at all. Again: There are two legal spheres: the financial management and the operation. There's a constant refund. 1.5 billion have already been paid back to the companies, which, you have to say, have, of course, taken into account in their calculations a federal tax as a cost item. In fact, it would have to be repaid to the final consumer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The market dictates the price!]] It is nevertheless a cost post, Mr President. Secondly, it is also a very interesting legal question: What is the character of the legal relationship between the federal government and the Chamber of Commerce? This is a question that has never been dealt with by the Judicature or by the Law, and the Court of Auditors has therefore been asked to draw up a legal opinion on it. And we had very objective, quiet discussions with the Minister for Finance, as we have come to a satisfactory solution on these legal issues, aimed at maintaining this successful system of export promotion and external trade promotion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13916	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Peter. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e13937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their 20 signatures so that the issue of the repayment of external contributions can be dealt with here in the House. I mean, that's a subject you should deal with here. Dr. Stumbling! What actually prevents you from saying that you made a mistake? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Parliament has made the mistake! Parliament has decided to do so.]] We, Mr President Maderthaner, as entrepreneurs know one thing: Whatever comes out, as an entrepreneur, we are responsible for what we are doing. And all the explanations we submit are not publicly recognized by bankruptcy courts. Because it is only the fact of bankruptcy. In our case, I think it would be good for you if you said: Although we have collected many, many legal information – that may be true, I do not dispute at all – but we have made a mistake, because we have withdrawn and used contributions that... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's a joke! You don't have the least idea! That is not what we have decided, but Parliament!]] Dear friend! I have more idea than you're right. Listen to me now! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: It is very difficult to listen to you!]] I'll explain it to you: They have therefore carried out the use of these funds. That's a fact. And now they have to be called back by law. The way in which you delay this recovery, however, I think it is quite scandalous. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] If you, Dr. stupidly, here as a man working in the Entrepreneurship, have the forehead, in fact, to say literally: The federal tax is a cost item which is introduced into the calculation of entrepreneurs, then you have never heard of anything like a market price. Whether or not the market price covers the costs is a completely different subject. If you still believe that prices are due to calculations, I'll tell you: The prices are generated on the market, and the calculation is a retrocalculation, which allows us to determine whether we can still work cost-effectively at the prices we can impose on the free market in hard competition. This is the reality in which we work free entrepreneurs! You may work differently in the Chamber of Commerce. It'll be like that! [[Abg. This applies to all taxes and costs, Mr President.]] However, we should take the opportunity to discuss external trade promotion. You are right, Dr. Stumblingly, when you say that exports are essential for Austria and that the chance for our country is ultimately in export. This export, which, as you have correctly quoted, is indirectly dependent on every second job and which accounts for more than 40 percent of gross domestic product, goods, services and tourism exports, offers the only chance for a small national economy to achieve additional growth in a phase of weak economic development in Europe. I therefore believe that the External Economic Organisation plays an essential role in this context, and on the occasion of the dispute over the one and a half billion schilling, we should take the opportunity to think about how we can improve our foreign trade organization, which does not tire you out. Parts of it are to be praised, not a question, but not everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] We need to consider how we make this external economic organisation more efficient, how we improve the entire market presence of the Republic of Austria, regardless of whether it is exports of goods, services or tourism exports. Today we are facing a fragmented landscape of foreign economic organisations, Austria's advertising, Austria's institutes, cultural institutes. Whenever you go to a large foreign capital, you will find Austria not in a center, but in five, six, seven, eight fragmented rooms. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the question of 1.5 billion schilling, which is very worthwhile to scandalize, it would be important for the House to discuss: How can we coordinate the entire appearance of the Republic of Austria to increase our export performance? We talked about Austrian houses here many years ago. Mr President, Mr Maderthaner once had the kindness to tell me that this would be very complicated. Mr President. I know it's difficult to install Austrian houses, but if we don't finally start, we won't have one in 2000. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: We're already there!]] I am delighted to hear that you are already there, and I would ask you to create the necessary basis for this to work. It will only work if we coordinate, better, more efficiently than ever, all the bodies and institutions responsible for Austria's appearance abroad. Think about Austria's advertising, foreign business organisations, Austrian institutes and cultural institutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Dear colleague Lukesch! It has nothing to do with centralism. This has to do with finding synergies – a word that you will certainly be able to write as a university professor. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An arrogance that can't be exceeded by anything!]] So I propose concretely, and I have already proposed this several times... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The prepotence of the minority is that!]] Mr. Stumbling! Calm down again! I've been very tender with you today that you'd deserve worse. For the time being, I suggest to you that we do not cook our own soup and keep our powers free in order to buy us support and gratitude in the field of support, but I ask you to act really efficiently once: Let's bring these institutions into an Austrian fund! Let us manage it from a capital company that can really act in accordance with the market. Let's put in place product managers who sell the product Austria in Brazil, Japan, London or wherever it always sells, and give them a real brand article policy as a basis! For 40 years now, the foreign economic organisations – and there with great success, there and there with less success, but everything was positive – have been working without the success of creating a "Marke Österreich" together with the Austrian advertising company, together with the cultural institutions, together with the Austrian Institute. There is a term "Marke Schweiz". There is the Swiss Cross, which has a name worldwide, which creates a certain awareness among all consumers in the world. But there is no "Mark Austria". However, Mr Stumvoll promises how well he has always done in recent times. A bit of self-criticism – I am increasingly aware of this now – would not hurt you at all, for if you accuse me of prepotence, Mr President, I must thank you very much: The chamberalistic superiority is innate to you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If Austria should become stronger in its exports, we must have concentrated contact points. We need not only foreign trade delegates, branch managers in Austria's advertising activities on the market, we need them at some time in the country. We must change the financing, we must equip these foreign trade delegates, these branch managers, of whom I think they should be product managers, with their own budgets, with their own budget powers, with the task of doubling this budget, which they receive from the basic funding, from the public funds, over a period of time, for example in three years, by selling services to Austrian entrepreneurs. Then it becomes measurable, then a field of tension arises, then the means we need to be successful in the export. We do not have enough funds in this area today, in some cases they are used badly so that we cannot take advantage of all the opportunities that could be used in exports. This is where I think it is worth discussing. This is the only opportunity given to us, if we want to see not only the few large businesses in our country, but also the many small and medium-sized enterprises in our country going to the far-off markets and offering their products there. The fact that there are contact points that sell services beyond basic financing, beyond initial care, also gives small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity, for example, to rent an office there for two months, to test the market there for two months, to take advantage of all the payable benefits of such a body, which can therefore increase their productivity several times. I urge the Federal Chamber of Commerce to consider this question far beyond its own personal thinking of power, to carry out a concentration of all forces in Austria-houses and an Austrian fund, and above all to return this money to those entrepreneurs who have been cut off too much money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14083	The next speaker is Dr. Heindl. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that Mr Peter has led the issue where it belongs, and I must say that I have already been impressed by what Mr Haigermoser said. I would like to know my word two-part. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It was correct what Haigermoser said!]] Firstly, criticism is not bad. I have always thought that criticism can only be positive; and if Helmut Haigermoser here says something personal about what happened to someone, then you have to register it – it won't be the only company that happened. This has just been the result of a system, but you should not be so dishonest and forget how it all developed. Let me tell you from my point of view. I think back to the eighties. We were all at every budget debate – sometimes there was a little critical undertone, even myself several times excited about one thing or another – basically agree that this foreign trade organization is an unprecedentedly well-functioning and, above all, important organisation for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There's always everyone applauseing, and you shouldn't forget that. ==References== January 1994, accession to the EEA. At that time I also broke my head on it, I am going to go or I am not going to do it, and then – I confess it quite openly – it was the overwhelming legal opinion, because it was a legal opinion problem – which said: There must be a change. The AHF regime, as good as it was for the organization of the last decades, is ending. We made the mistake that we said we left it in 1994 – although we have been since 1. We have been to the EEA in January 1994 – we are still running, we are making a change if we are on 1 January 1994. EU accession to the EU in January 1995. The new change in financing also works and is underway. What was the problem with this? – The decision of the Supreme Court of November 1994, which stated: What happened in 1994 after EEA accession is not lawful. To say it Wednesdayly: Now we've got the screen on. However, the foreign trade organisation has not stopped working, it has continued to act, it has continued to work for the Austrian export industry, it has continued to offer its services, and we have had enough success with it. One thing you have to say on this occasion: Thousands and thousands of businesses have only been huge because they have found there and there an organization that will give them the It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take action in this area, and I hope that the Commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. That's not a question. But now, at once, there is a gap in coverage, a financial gap. For me and my group, it is not a question – I think that is undisputed –: As the case may be, it cannot be at the expense of the export-oriented economy! There is no discussion about this at all; it has to get its money. Not only because there is an extrajudicial decision to do so, Mr President - I believe we agree on this - but because it is quite logical that someone who has paid something wrong must get it back. That's out of discussion. But we should not forget the other one about the legitimate and critical dispute about this opinion. I've been talking to legal experts about this topic myself before. Unfortunately, there are different opinions. Nevertheless, I stick to my point of view, as always. It is not only a legal matter, but also a political question that the export-oriented economy must recover the amounts wrongly paid. That's out of discussion. We need to find a way of how this funding can work in the future, for one thing is clear – and I agree with you completely: Saving is correct. But that's not just a question of saving. I fully agree with Mr Peter. Again criticism of ourselves: We have not succeeded in realizing this Austrian idea. I have been one of those who tried for the first time in 1971 to realize the idea of the Austrian House. I myself worked in Paris for a few years. There was the foreign trade organisation, the cultural institute, the embassy, the OECD message, the AUA representative, the VOEST representative and tourism advertising. All of this has been done by the small country of Austria. Now I'm not talking about the costs, so important they are. Mr Peter has rightly criticized the lack of efficiency when Austria's representation is fragmented into seven places. Nevertheless, we were successful. Only these times are over for a long time. We must finally see today that we must act together and coordinate the various directions of our external economy. I know that we are grateful to God now and there in terms of going such ways, because it is quite simply necessary for the further efficiency of our export economy. The chancellor has rightly said: As successful as our exports have been so far, and so much so we know that every second job in industry directly and every third job as a whole in the economy depends on the operation of the export industry: 23.4 percent are not enough! We need to focus on countries that reach 30, 35 and 40 percent, because in this area jobs are the yield. But this is only possible if we are competitive and if we have a proper organization. Yesterday I just happened to read a quote from a Swiss journalist who is very successful as an entrepreneur here in Austria. This man – Lehner he is called – writes, he can only register that Austrian entrepreneurs are superior to Swiss and German in terms of creativity and improvisation; a preference that is not high enough at a time when the fasts are supposed to eat the slow seeds. I remember – I think it was last week – that in the "level" of the BMW Board said: Austria is what is happening to innovation, to the entrepreneurial spirit and also to taxes, my fellow Members... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Please, he has said that the tax question is very positive. Let us not do bad, which is really true! If we take all of this together, I think, we are well advised if we jointly seek such a way, regardless of the need to solve this question, but not at the expense of the export-oriented economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14160	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14181	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! All my previous speakers have spoken very interestingly. But, Minister of State, I don't know, it's six months ago, then it's going to be under Minister Staribacher, it's maybe a year ago, then it's been under Minister Lacina: At that time we had exactly the same discussion – exactly! I like to discuss everything, but not twice within a relatively short time about one and the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14217	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14238	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heindl! I believe that today's issue does not necessarily have to be whether the foreign trade organizations are good, less good or worthy of improvement. It is certainly an issue that can be made even better, because we all know how important foreign trade is. However, I believe that this is what we are talking about today: How do the entrepreneurs concerned get to their money, how do the 1.5 billion schillings come back quickly and unbureaucratically to the businesses, especially in times when, as we all know, there are economic difficulties and one who has paid a lot of foreign trade promotions, the money he has paid unjustly, as has proved, can well be needed? Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I do not understand that in your speech you did not say at all what we all have in common and can help you to get the money paid back quickly. They only defend that it has been lifted. This is a subject that can also be of different opinion. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The refund is already running!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You have described it in your speech in such a way that it was so at the time that it is so and that it is almost immoral that the entrepreneurs now demand it back. It can't be like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. I now experience something in this house twice within a few weeks, which is a matter of concern to me. On the one hand, as a Member of this House, you have the duty, for the people and for the citizens, to do so. And if something has been lifted unlawfully, we must all see that this is paid back. As the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, however, they have much more to do with the obligation to insist that this be repaid. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We do that all the time! You don't know all that!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Then I wonder why, after the speech by Mr Haigermoser, who has presented a number of problems in this context, you have not used a word to comment on these problems. You could also have said: I don't know that, it's new to me, and we'll do everything we can to fix that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have in recent times the feeling that the Chamber of Commerce, under the leadership of President Madethaner, and with your help more and more away from the entrepreneurs. I would just like to point out one example, Mr President, that, although you did not mean to me personally, or perhaps you also meant me, that can be already, has really hit me deeply. In a debate you have more or less accused a colleague of this House, who was a businessman, of being incapable of it. I would like to hear from you, Mr President, if you stand by this pult, that you are full of businessmen, and not always that everything would be fine, just as it happened today again in the early days. While you say that the burden package is already a little problematic, we are happy to agree with the ÖVP, although you know very well – I know you know – how many difficulties are associated with it for the small and medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You're raising a cabaret here!]] I therefore believe that it is now time for us to deal with what can now happen. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. They have defended that the collection was in order until the last day. It may be disputed whether one might have been able to find out a little better at the time of EEA accession, whether one should perhaps have obtained even more legal opinions, whether one should continue to do so. ==References== It was known to the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs in November 1994 that the collection was at least problematic. It would have been a good thing for the Chamber if you had done everything and perhaps also talked to the Minister for Finance so that it could be stopped immediately so that there is no difficulty. But in this way you have contributed to the fact that at least two months' time these contributions have been unjustly abolished. I ask you from the Chamber to finally take action and speed up the disbursement, because nothing has happened since the debate on the payment to this day. As we've heard, no one's got a schilling yet. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is the smooth untruth! That's not true! You're talking like a blind man about the color!]] Okay, some might have gotten something. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] I like to be taught. If the Federal Minister says that some have already gotten something, I take note of it. But they haven't gotten anything yet. It must have gotten something 10 or 20 percent. Do not pretend to have been paid back to all these 1.5 billion! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are already in the problem of you leaning back and saying: There have already been a few shillings paid out by the 1.5 billion shillings. - That's the thoughtful! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Everything untrue!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. As far as you are concerned, it would be best for me if all entrepreneurs had these 1.5 billion tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is no reason to delay, because we know that the financial authorities, the customs authorities, are able to determine quickly. You're fast on tax demands, you can remove everything from the computer. Federal Minister! I am trying to find out who has something to get, but not in the next half of the year, but it can happen in the next few weeks. They are also very quick to issue tax reports to prescribe the tax. This is why, as it were, you are putting off reasonable notice that the entrepreneurs have something to gain. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr Maderthaner! It would really be good for you if you were finally there for the entrepreneurs and not just for your system.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14380	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14406	I will now resume the negotiations on the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act. I call Mr Dkfm. Ruthofer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14430	Mr President. I was left with the Tobacco Tax Act and I meant that the purchase in the border duty-free shops in Slovenia, the Czech Republic and the cheap purchases of tobacco in Hungary would be a ruinous one for the Austrian tobacco industry. I have a statistics on the sales of cigarettes in the Kärnten, Osttirol and Murau districts in Styria. Interesting are the figures of sales loss in millions of schilling from 1986 to 1995, compared to average sales in 1983 to 1985. Fraud of the loss in 1986 was still 50 million schilling, so in 1995 he reached an order of 548 million schilling. In the eye is the year 1991. There was no loss here, because this year the border with Slovenia was closed for several days. Overall, we have an average sales loss of 34.14 percent in this area. In the most affected regions, these are those 10 to 30 kilometres away from the border, there are decreases between 40 and 47 percent. As far as the number of trafiks in Carinthia is concerned, it fell from 950 in 1986 to 773 in 1995, which is a minus of 177 Trafiken and - as a percentage - 18.63 percent. At these border crossings, you, Minister of Finance, can take up 2 billion schilling from the street, much more than the proposed increase in tobacco tax. Only through increased border controls, the expansion of mobile customs controls and the massive use of customs surveillance will it be possible to avoid damage to the Austrian tobacco industry in general and to the retail of tobacco products in particular. The increase in tobacco tax is threatening to exist for many small traffickers. Each linear schilling cigarette price increase, due to the automatic use of the Tobacco Tax Act, results in a percentage reduction in the sales of the main price class to higher-priced cigarettes, an disproportionate increase in tobacco tax and thus a direct percentage reduction in the trading margin of the Trafikants. The average trading margin will decrease from currently 14.8 percent to about 12.9%. This means that in the near future up to 5 000 vehicles will have to be locked up and 15,000 to 20 000 jobs are at risk. On the amendment tabled by Mr Bauer and Mr Hostasch, according to which the tobacco tax should be increased from 232 S to 246 S or to 250 S, but will now be left to 246 S, I would like to say the following: The explanatory memorandum states that trade margins are being improved. That's a joke, the trading lines have of course got worse. And if you had left the 250 s, they would have become even worse; I think you should just say that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, my summary of the Structural Adjustment Act in the financial field: All in all, it will be decided by the government parties to take measures that are difficult to impose on the citizens of our country, no jobs will be created, on the contrary, jobs will be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14479	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14500	Mr President. Minister! It is, of course, difficult to find a return to the Structural Adjustment Act after three consultations. I would like to join my previous speakers. I also admit that such a flood of legislative changes – I think it is more than 90 in the number – must not be part of the everyday life of parliamentarianism in this concentration and should be part of it in the future. However, unusual situations also require unusual measures, and the state budget must be restored. Let's blend back: What was the starting position of the budgetary negotiations half a year ago, in autumn 1995? – The then Minister of Finance Staribacher presented us with a budget that provided new tax revenue of 30 billion, one-off revenue of 18 billion and only 5 to 7 billion savings. The consequences would have been: new strains, further indebtedness on the back of our children, higher interest rate service, inflation, hard schilling would have been in danger and and and so. We took the emergency brakes, and that is why these elections were important in December 1995. [[Abg. Koppler: We won them!]] These elections were the most important elections, Mr Koppler. These elections were the most important elections since 1955, because only these elections have enabled a huge reform programme to be carried out now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The surveys also show that the majority of the population is behind this reform package, because it is balanced first. There is a distribution right between low and higher incomes and, ultimately, fiscal measures are set in such a way that loopholes are no longer necessary in the future. Secondly, The cuts are made thanks to God, because later it would have been really too late, and thus a permanent reorganisation of the budget has been initiated. Each of us is taxpayers and receives services from the state. But in my opinion, the relationship between taxes and benefits is no longer quite correct, I think it was no longer balanced. Our primary objective must therefore be to push the budget deficit, as we do the project, to 2.7 percent in 1997. This, of course, means that we also have to contribute to it by the other regional authorities. This is not only important because we have to meet the Maastricht criteria, but also because this consolidation rate depends on whether we can participate in future economic and monetary union and whether we can maintain the trust of our international investors and investors. It is not only the country of Austria affected by it. If we look around in other countries such as Sweden and France – and this has already been stressed by my previous speakers – we see similar situations. Germany alone has to save 350 billion schilling. The results are therefore: Only if Austria's economic location remains competitive will Austria remain a first-class country of work, and thus there will be a future for our citizens. As mayor, however, I would like to say the following: This Structural Adjustment Act includes the financial compensation and the future financing between the federal, country and municipalities. I believe that these negotiations will take place on 22 February. It was a great success on February and we must try to implement these negotiations. – Consultation mechanism on the convergence criteria. Nevertheless, I would like to stress: It will be very difficult to comply with the 0.3% of other local authorities, particularly the local authorities, because I myself, as mayor, know that 92% of my budget expenditure is committed from the outset. I can't change anything about this, they're just tied up. The scope is zero for many municipalities. Secondly, The local authorities are faced with the situation of having to invest in the infrastructure again. So we have to clean up the infrastructure, that is inevitable. And therefore it will be very difficult to take these steps and reach these limits. Thirdly, I would like to stress that perhaps we all owe ourselves: As a result of these laws, more and more tasks are assigned to the communities. The task ceiling has already been reached. However, I keep the financial balance, the one from 1. January 1997 is expected to last four years, for very good. I believe that this increase in revenue from 1996/97 and the following years is a kind of compensation for the communities. However, I regret that these financial compensatory negotiations did not discuss horizontal financial compensation. He's stuck, but he hasn't been changed. I think that the current horizontal financial balance is more detrimental to small communities because of the declassified population key. – I can sing a song of it as Burgenländer. I also believe that this percentage reduction in financial allocations according to § 21 FAG will increase income shears between the poor and the rich communities, and I am afraid - let me say this - that the allocation of the 5 percent of the energy levy for the communities will be almost exclusively in favour of large cities. Nevertheless, I can sign the outcome of the negotiations. Finally, I would like to address one that has touched me very much. Mr Stadler has gone out of here and has meant that all will lose in this load package. I just need to look at his proposals or his party's proposals. Mr Fink has listed it, it starts with VAT, goes until the cold progression and so on. To sum up – that was very carefully listed by us – the extra burden of up to 43.9 billion schilling would bring. It is therefore not a question of consolidation! Secondly, If Mr Stadler – and I am sorry that he is not here – thinks that the Committee has only been asked a sham in the budgetary negotiations, then this accusation can only be addressed to his own colleagues, because the Liberal Members have asked most of the questions, and if he then qualified them as sham questions, I would not like to do so in your place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the last, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I wrote hard, when Mr Stadler spoke. He spoke of a parliamentary vote. You only need to see how often you abuse Parliament! I am already in favour of not limiting opposition rights, but of maintaining it, but of looking at the abuse that is being committed today and of tomorrow – today I can't say – will probably be driven back – we will probably only have three to four hours of nominal voting today – then I must say, I don't know if this will do something and if that's okay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] I doubt that. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Right!]] The last thing that hit me very deeply as a young Member of Parliament I must say to you is: If Mr. Stadler comes out here, he gets here and compares the Parliament with the "musical stadium", then this is really a grip on the deepest load. He said that, Dr. Ofner! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Dear Dr. Ofner! I'll show you that in the minutes. He compared Parliament with a "musical stadium", but he meant all the parties, they are also the liberals in this "musical stadium". [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He compared the Haider to the Hias!]] You know, Dr. Ofner, the "Musikantenstadl" is an entertainment show, and there was always a certain one that contributed to popular pleasure, namely the Hias. He did his job half a year ago, so that would be free now. Perhaps you could ask Mr Stadler to take over this function.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14596	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14617	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The discussion on the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act in the financial chapter has already shown a lot. And that I am in front of you today in my locker suit, I have made that aware. , because you are rationalising precisely these jobs with this Structural Adjustment Act. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: When you were still working, it wasn't like that!]] That's why I wear my workwear today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am speaking now as an employee and I know exactly how difficult the economic situation is. I'm still active. My locker suit is not new, it's just washed, it's working with this work suit. [[Abg. There's a lubrication spot!]] I just want to document this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you that you will lose jobs with these structural measures and with this structural adjustment law, which is to be adopted today. And that's why I wear these clothes today. I am responsible for the non-social burden policy, for the destruction of jobs and for the destruction of the economic location of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, of the government coalition! In your policy, I am concerned that Zig, tens of thousands of Austrian workers will no longer get work. The jobs and the businesses you destroy will increase the employment level of the labour market service to a maximum, because there is likely to be much to do there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This 1996 structural adjustment law must be rejected by every employee and also by representatives of the various federal states – we will see that when they go to the vote – ladies and gentlemen, very much rejected. First of all, it is non-competitive and second, it is non-reality to believe the words of the Federal Chancellor. He claimed that he would make personal efforts to create 80 000 jobs. I am curious about how he will create these jobs. It is likely that the government will not succeed until 100 000 jobs are lost or destroyed, then perhaps 80 000 jobs will be created. This is likely to be the procedure. I would also like to mention the example of energy taxation, on which we shall vote today: According to calculations by the energy recovery agency, the paper industry alone expects more than 120 million schilling. Small and medium-sized enterprises are pushed to the brink of existence, the environmental sinners are spared instead of punishing. The district heat is getting more expensive. As an example, the gas turbine in Leopoldau is called; the natural gas tax on the gas turbine brings 23 million extra charges for district heating. All of this is the burden of this package of measures. If you have a normal house mind and you do not want to deteriorate the competitiveness of companies through energy taxation with all the effects on job security, you should think about it as a Member of Parliament and decide today when voting in such a way that you do not accept this tax package in the area of finance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What exactly does it look like in the company where I'm employed? What does it look like there? Jenbacher Energiesysteme AG – which stands so beautifully at the top of my locker suit – with 850 employees and 2 billion revenues a year has been reduced so far that the vehicle industry is almost out of existence. The former Minister of Transport and the current Minister of Finance has also contributed a lot to this, because he has tried to break the industrial location of the vehicle industry, and he has almost succeeded. I would like to add that. But it is likely that Jenbacher Energiesysteme AG will continue its location on one leg, and it will be so that we will continue to produce energy products such as block heat plants and so on. This is why I understand today's speech in this sense, that I want to show how leading the Jenbach energy systems are in the field of gas engine technology and that the natural gas tax law will bring us difficulties. This natural gas tax law requires that natural gas should be taxed on development inspection stations used for research purposes. Products are excluded for research purposes everywhere. This is an example of the alcohol tax. Alcohol for research purposes is excluded, but natural gas for research purposes is not exempt from the tax on natural gas. That is why I would like to make a request today, which has the following content: Proposal by Members Blünegger and colleagues on the Government template of a 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, Art. 61 (72 of the supplements) The National Council wants to decide: The presentation referred to in the title, as amended by the Committee's report, shall be replaced by the following: 61, Gas Tax Act, as amended by: Art. 61 of the German Federal Act introducing a levy on the supply and consumption of natural gas (Earth Gas Tax Act), is amended by adding Z 4 as follows: § 3 para. 1 Z 4 reads: "Earth gas used for research purposes." I think that today Members could jump over their own shadows, because we do not accept the requests from the Liberals again and again. You could jump over your shadow once and even in the case of a modern amendment request you would agree. Because one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen, To destroy jobs, you were certainly not elected by the voters. That is why I think it is legitimate for you to vote for it today and also to give this request an approval, which will help you to turn away from the heavy tax burden and from the new energy tax at least a small part, for the benefit of workers and for the protection of jobs and businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14698	The amendment tabled by Mr Blünegger is an amendment, it is sufficiently supported and is under discussion. The next speaker was Mr Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14723	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If it were so easy with the budget, Mr Bauer! – I refer to your speech. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I didn't do any mosquitoes!]] We all know that a budget today has different, sometimes contradictory objectives to follow. There is the objective of fiscal consolidation, there is the objective of employment security, there is the objective of site security, there is the objective of...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14760	Deputies, apologise. Maybe you could do the dressing work outside the plenary room. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14787	That's a costume, yes. – Now he shows himself again in his true garment. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He has not made an oath. He didn't take an oath on good behavior!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Maybe someone can help the colleague tie the tie so that the new elevator is complete again. Back to the question of the budget: There are different objectives to be achieved at the same time. In a market economy, the question arises again and again: What objective do I prioritize at some point? – For one thing is clear: All these reforms have failed wherever one-dimensional policy objectives were available in relation to the budget. There have been states in which they have been said: We're just interested in consolidation, no matter what else comes out! – The result in relation to poor – rich, the result in employment can be looked at by everyone. There are also states like today the USA that go here and say: Our top goal must be to budget balance! – We in Austria say that there is a need for correction in terms of debt, and at the same time as this correction requirement in terms of indebtedness, we have two objectives: to maintain first employment as much as possible and to ensure social justice. Now I admit: If you highlight the budget from a one-dimensional policy or interest point, you will find different criticisms. If, however, the degree of assessment of the extent to which the different, all very essential objectives have been met will be different, then the result of this assessment will look different because no one could go out in today's debate and say: So, as we do in Austria, it is absolutely in addition! Look at XYZ, where they jump forward to how to successfully renovate a budget while at the same time maintaining high employment standards, high social justice. – For this reason, no one has been able to do it because there is no country that could typically show us in a model how it can go. In reality, all Western European industrialised countries are looking for a reasonable way out of this situation. Mr Bauer described the situation as unhappy and said that we had chosen a bad time. Well, "bad time" is good, one cannot choose economic fleas just as one could not choose them in 1993, but one has to deal with them under more difficult conditions. Would we go here now and say: There is a flaw in the economy, so we are delaying fiscal consolidation!, what would we experience next year if, so to speak, a budget unconsolidated would bring 200 billion deficits? – The same who go down today and say that 1996 was the wrong time to consolidate, would say in 1997 and 1998: An insanity, why have you been able to watch for so long that this has exploded?- Oh, my God! That is why, Mr Bauer, it is already a difference whether one is not fairly concerned and asks what options one has under all the limited conditions that a nation state is finding today to deal with a situation. There may be other proposals. I'm ready to discuss these. But going here and making it so easy and saying that the time is unfavorable, and in fact suggesting, it also remained the escape at another time, that is not serious! - 1987 to 1992 high-economy. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: ’87 to ’92 – High economic level!]] It is not the first budgetary consolidation that we are carrying out, and in 1993 the recession phase has now existed, at which we agreed together that there must be countermeasures. Well, if we have made additional expenditure in 1993, we must eventually start to reduce expenditure again in order to get the whole thing back on track. I would therefore believe that there is no debate on the purpose. On alternative proposals, how to make it better, I have not heard any of them here today. I therefore assume that there is, in fact, an unspeakable consensus that there is no real alternative to this type of budget consolidation in Austria. You know this as well as I do, and therefore you do not make any practical proposals, but go down and try to prevent the decision-making of the budget at night today with filibuster methods. That's the only thing you've stayed – an alternative you don't have to offer!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14856	The next speaker is Mr Platter. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14877	Mr. Minister! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to take this debate on the finances of our state in order to address the financial situation of the communities a little closer. But first of all I would like to make a brief comment on today's debate. Mr Blünegger, I think he's outside again. I'm apprehensive for every gap, I'm apprehensive for every blue workwear when she's wearing someone. I also understand the actionism of the liberals, so that you may be in the newspaper or appear on television, but one, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I do not understand, namely that you have to make up again and again. And if you do bad, ladies and gentlemen, then you are making our state bad, and this is in the end harming the citizens too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is possible, of course, to pick out certain details, against consolidation, against such a course mood, but that is, in my opinion, pure populism. If certain details do not fit in one hundred percent, I am no doubt very glad that the coalition has succeeded in taking a reasonable consolidation course, a course that most of the people have an understanding, and we must thank the people for bringing them to such an understanding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since 1993, the government budget has undoubtedly been exhausted, but not only in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, but throughout Europe. The countries have difficulties due to recession, the general economic situation, but also the exploitation of transfer services. These transfers must also be managed accordingly. If I look back, I can say that I deeply believe that, in the interests of our country, we had to draw a conclusion that we had to call for the restructuring of the state budget. This conclusion was necessary in order not to get Swedish conditions where brutal social reduction is carried out. We want to save the Austrians. We have undoubtedly made this final point, at the same time as calling for budget consolidation, because of the economic location of Austria, but also especially in the interest of the future of our youth. Youth needs a clear future, and we will give young people these opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the financial situation of the communities. My Mayors Auer and Steindl have already explained that the area of the communities is increasing and the loads are rising enormously. There are the communities that can no doubt manage well through good income or healthy businesses they have in the area. With these indispensable tax revenues, with these own taxes, those communities that have established good establishments can handle their tasks – sewerization, water supply, road construction and the like – more. However, they can also make very meaningful investments. These reasonable investments benefit not only the citizens, but also the construction industry and the construction industry in a very special way – what we urgently need at present! If we are talking, Mr Minister, about employment offensive, this not only concerns the federal government, but also the country, but also employment offensives must be made in the communities, and this is also a contribution to job security. But not all communities have this possibility. There are communities that cannot operate themselves at all, because they do not have their own taxes through good and healthy businesses, but they live by the incomes. I would like to add two examples to the problem of many small communities. To Beipiel the municipality of Kaiser in the district of Reutte has 85 inhabitants. It has revenue of 1 900 000 S and expenditure of 2 499 000 S. However, these expenditures relate only to current operations. It has no gross surplus but has a deficit of 550 000 S and can no longer invest anything beyond normal activities. The municipality of Musau has 329 inhabitants. The revenue is 3 million and the expenditure is 3.4 million schilling. The debt service represents 800 000 S, i.e. a net deficit of 1 250 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! These examples could continue. There is no doubt from these examples that these communities - I really mean, Mr Minister - need to be helped. The need allocations for the mayors to become bitters do not ensure sufficient replacement. The small communities too have to carry out canal or water construction, only to cope with this particularly in rural areas, in mountain areas under difficult conditions and with increased costs. In the interest of the small, uncultivated communities, it is therefore the following: First: In future, we will need a special financial compensation scheme for weak communities. No doubt the previous allocations are not sufficient. These special arrangements are to be implemented within the framework of the financial possibilities through reasonable retranslations. Secondly, I am already pleased to say: All laws must not forget economics. It is important to think of economics and financial viability as well. It is undoubtedly necessary for all laws to carry out a lower cost control, but not only in the laws, but also in the regulations. Thirdly, I am particularly pleased that this was still possible: Those who have the money to pay should be able to talk about when laws are made, i.e. the consultation mechanism. It is undoubtedly important to consider: Can we afford that? Who's the cost? Do we have a corresponding financial cover? – That, I believe, is a good signal that is brought into this entire budget consolidation. But for one thing, I ask the negotiators of the financial compensation: Give the financially weak communities a new chance in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14978	Mrs Hostasch has now been reported to the House. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e14999	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also necessary, from an employee's point of view, to regain budgetary flexibility, as this will ensure employment, income and the long-term financing of the social state. The main thing for me is that we are also interested in fiscal consolidation without Maastricht, because Austria is measured by these criteria on international financial markets. The reputation of a good debtor secures us low interest rates and a stable currency. In my view, the assessment of the measures in the field of tax policy is mainly about safeguarding social symmetry and safeguarding distribution justice in the horizontal and vertical sense. I should like to remind you of the 1994 tax reform, in which we had to look back at the fact that the tax failure has been greater than planned and that the tax arrangements have also been used more extensively than the original intention. We have, of course, also considered the extent to which a massive levy would be a possible approach in the case of fiscal measures. But I think it was right to decide, under the motto of "absorbing taxes instead of raising taxes!" To close tax loopholes, prevent extensive design opportunities and also reduce tax subsidies in order to achieve a better balance between taxpayers in the tax revenue and also in the tax environment, in order to achieve a better balance between tax revenue and tax revenue. It is also between the self-employed and other taxable persons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, from the point of view of employees, I would like to say that the bundle of measures is a hard but a necessary one. From a trade union point of view, it is not easy for us to agree to this package, for example, the energy tax, which is largely borne by households, or some measures in the area of pension rights and unemployment insurance. In particular, in order to preserve social symmetry and distribution justice, it is necessary that some of the tax provisions are retroactive. We were very selective and also responsible in this directive and in this way, but it is essential to make what we consider acceptable. This 100-billion package does not, of course, remove any insignificant means from the economic cycle. It must therefore be assumed that a reduction in effective demand is linked to this and that it will not be possible to prevent any related effects on employment. It is therefore essential, in our view, that priority should be given to ensuring employment. The two budgets, which we are now discussing and will also decide on, take account of this aspect by means of a series of short-term and medium-term measures. I would just like to remind them: for example, the establishment of a rail infrastructure fund, which will allow 60 billion schilling to be received over the next five years and invested in the economy to create jobs. However, the increase in funds for housing development is also an important boost, as workers can be used to a greater extent especially in the housing sector, as well as the effective use of rental interest reserves for the new construction. The temporary increase in the investment exemption is also intended to serve this effect. As a decisive measure, I also consider the decision-making of the Federal Road Finance Act, which enables us to develop the road network with a mauten-financed concept. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the investment exemption, I would like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This great package of measures, which we will decide today and also in the following days, has achieved respect and recognition abroad, but also acceptance in the country. It is essential for a stable development in our country, for the economic location and also for employment, for the planningability of entrepreneurs and also for workers. I would therefore ask you to approve. I shall, of course, give our group the consent to this structural adjustment law, as amended by the amendments. They are important for the further good development of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15102	The amendment tabled by Mrs Hostasch is sufficiently supported. He's on trial. There is no more word message. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I am briefly interrupting the meeting to clarify a question.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15138	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to the Enlightenment: I have therefore interrupted the sitting because it is obvious that a number of requests have been withdrawn for a roll-call vote. I must begin by clarifying this before I can go into the voting process at all. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15168	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We are now voting on the Financial Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This group comprises the species. 39 to 67 in 95 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled supplementary and amending proposals. The Members of Parliament also have power. Barmüller and comrades tabled amendments. Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades then tabled an amendment. Finally, Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and Comrades have tabled an amendment. Mr Blünegger and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. Finally, Deputies have Dr. Schwimmer, Eder, Mag. Peter and comrades submitted an additional request. The honourable Member also has power. Trattner calls for separate vote. Finally, there is the desire of 20 Members to vote in favour of several articles. First of all, I will have to vote on the amendments and supplementary proposals, along with those parts on which separate or nominal voting was required, in the order of the articles and finally on the remaining parts of the Financial Advisory Group that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Schwimmer, Eder, Mag. Peter and comrades have submitted an additional request for the insertion of § 10a and title in Art. 39. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted with a single vote. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and comrades have an amendment concerning Art. 39 C 12. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to be approved. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 39 Z 24 and 44 § 37 para. 5 to be introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now I'm leaving this way. 39 Z 39 Constitutional provision – I repeat: Constitutional provision – as amended by the Committee's report. First I put in the sense of § 82 para. The number of Members required for the vote is fixed by the Rules of Procedure. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I therefore proceed as follows: The voting papers to be used are located in the drawer of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – grey polls – or "No" – pink polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the votes in the votes cast. I'm looking for those Members for a way. 39 Z 39 vote, "Yes" vote, those who vote against to cast "No" vote in the urn. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name. Mrs Applebeck will replace her later.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15288	I note that the vote has ended. I now ask the House's officials, under the supervision of the Correspondents, to make the number of votes. To this end, the meeting will be suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15322	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 165, of which "Yes" votes 122, "No" votes 43. The art. 39 Z 39 as amended by the Committee's report, it has therefore been adopted with the necessary two-thirds majority. According to § 66 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall include the names of the Members, stating their voting behaviour in the Stenographic Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15488	Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and comrades have an amendment concerning Art. 39 Z 72. Since the said amendment includes a constitutional provision, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The request is made by 20 Members, so the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – grey polls – or "No" – pink polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. I would like to point out: If votes are taken in this or any other natural voting procedure, they must be settled here by the officials. [[Pointing to officials]] I would like to stress, however, that the name should then be recorded on the poll. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I'm looking for those Members for a way. 39 C. 72 in the version of the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and comrades, voted 'Yes', those who voted against to put 'No' vote in the urn. I now ask the writer, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15543	That concludes the vote. I ask once again the officials responsible for the House to carry out the voting and interrupt the meeting for this purpose under the supervision of the Correspondents.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15574	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 164, of which "Yes" votes: 122, "No" votes: 42. Art. 39 Z 72 as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and Comrades is therefore adopted with the required two-thirds majority. According to § 66 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall include the names of the Members, stating their voting behaviour in the Stenographic Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietmachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst, Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15734	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. 39 Z 78 – Constitutional provision – as amended by the Committee's report. I note again the presence of the constitutional number of Members required. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The request has been made by 20 Members and the vote has therefore to be taken. So I'm going to do the same as I've already been experimenting twice. You can find a vote paper that can be used in the drawer. "Yes" voting paper – grey, "No" voting paper – pink. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to vote. I'm looking for those Members for the species. 39 Z 78 as part of the Committee's report, vote 'yes', those opposed to putting 'no' votes in the mood. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15786	Thank you. The vote will end. I ask once again the officials assigned to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15817	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 163, of which "Yes" votes: [[Correction of the voting result see page 170]] 122, "No" votes: 41. Article 39 Z 78, as amended by the Committee's report, is therefore adopted with the required two-thirds majority. According to § 66 para. 7 The names of Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e15980	I shall now vote on Rule 41 Z 12 as amended by the Committee's report. It has once again been called for to vote. The request was also made by 20 Members. The vote will therefore have to be taken. I am going as far as the other votes are concerned and I am referring to what has been said there. I therefore ask in particular those Members who vote in favour of Rule 41 Z 12 of the Committee's report, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16039	That concludes the vote. Once again, I ask the staff to carry out the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes and to interrupt the meeting for that purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16069	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 164, of which "Yes" votes: 122, "No" votes: 42. Article 41 Z 12 as amended by the Committee's report is therefore adopted. According to § 66 para. 7 The names of the members of the Rules of Procedure shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Stadler; Trattner; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16230	Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 41 Z 13. No vote has been required. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. The Members Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 41 Z 14. Since the present amendment refers to a constitutional provision, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the The publishing has been put by 20 MEPs to vote in the name. I therefore proceed as announced in the other votes, and I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin with the name call; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16270	That concludes the voting process. I would ask the officials, under the supervision of the scribes, to make the number of votes and to interrupt the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16300	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 164, of which "Yes" votes: 122, "No" votes: 42. Article 41 Z 14 as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Novotny and Comrades is therefore adopted with the required two-thirds majority. According to § 66 para. 7 The Rules of Procedure Act shall indicate the voting behaviour in the Stenographic Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haller, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schöggl, Stadler, Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16464	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 42 Z 10 of the Constitution as amended by the Committee's report. I expressly note the presence of the constitutional number of Members. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This publishing house is also set up by 20 Members, and the vote must therefore be taken. I am going as far as the other votes are concerned and I am referring to the statement. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reitsamer, to begin the call for name; Mrs Apfelbeck will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16501	That concludes the vote. I ask the officials once again to take the vote and interrupt the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16528	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168, of which "Yes" votes: 122, "No" votes: 46. Article 42 Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report is therefore adopted with the necessary two-thirds majority. The voting behaviour is indicated in accordance with § 66 para. 7 GOG. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Friend, Frieser, Fuchs; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leinner, leashnak, Luke; Maderthaner, Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Hofmann; Kier, Koller, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Stadler; Trattner; Van der Bellen; Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16692	Mr Rosemarie Bauer, Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 52a(1). I would like to ask you for a sign of this in the case of consent – that is not a roll call vote. - That's the majority. Accepted. The Van der Bellen and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 60(2). I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who support Rule 60(2), as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades, for a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Barmüller and comrades submitted an amendment concerning Article 60(2). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of Rule 60(2) – now in the version of the amendment tabled by honourable Members Mag. Barmüller and comrades – express a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. Rejected. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Barmüller and comrades refer to Article 60(4). 1 Z 1. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of Article 60(4). 1 C 1 as amended by Parliament's amendment. Barmüller and comrades vote for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 60 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Blünegger and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 61(3). 1 introduced. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 61 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Barmüller and comrades have an amendment concerning Article 62(2) para. 1 introduced. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 62 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades have an amendment concerning Article 63(17) para. 3a. Since Article 63 contains a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the majority as provided for in the Constitution for the vote shall be fixed. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the amendment tabled by Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades. – The request was accepted by the majority. I would like to point out that the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution are given. Members Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 64 Z 2. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for this. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on Rule 64 Z 10 – Constitutional provision – as amended by the Committee's report. First of all, I note the presence of the number of Members required for constitutional purposes and ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Rule 64 Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report for a sign on this matter. - That's the majority. I expressly define the required constitutional two-thirds majority. In addition, Members Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 15a § 21a in Article 64. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this supplementary request to give a positive signal. - That's the majority. Accepted. The vote is now under Rule 64 Z 16 as amended by Mr Rosemarie Bauer, Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on the additional request of Members Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades, who have the content of introducing a Z 17 – Constitutional provision – in Article 64. Firstly, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required. We are voting on the amendment tabled by Mr Rosemarie Bauer, Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades on Rule 64 Z 17. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. - That's the majority. I also expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. A amendment tabled by Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades refers to Article 65(6). 1. Z 2, § 8 para. 6 first sentence, § 20 para. 3 Z 1 and 2 and para. 7, § 22 para. 1 Z 3 and § 23 para. 2. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are in favour of it. - That's the majority. Accepted. Another supplementary request by Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades refers to the insertion of an article 21a in Article 65. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. - That's the majority. Accepted. Another amendment tabled by Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades refers to Article 66(1) para. 1. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. - That's the majority. Accepted. In addition, Members Rosemarie Bauer, Hostasch and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 67. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of Articles 39 to 67, which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. These remaining parts of the Financial Advisory Group contain constitutional provisions. Therefore, I put first according to § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I shall now vote on these parts as part of the Committee's report and seek a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. For the vote Rule 39 Z 78, I note the following: There were two on Ing. Maderthaner's voice. I therefore correct the vote as follows: The votes cast are not 163, but 162. I correct the "yes" voices from 122 to 121. The "No" voices remain the same at 41. This does not change the outcome that has been announced.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16905	Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the debate of the Financial Advisory Groups on the Structural Adjustment Act be taken immediately. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. It is before the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on assrelations under the Urban Renewal Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, Böhacker, to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Haider is not here again!]] Finally, we come to the vote on another motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the pre-tax deduction of qualified commercial cars and combinations of commercial representatives. Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this request by Böhacker for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This does not mean that this request has not found the necessary majority. This is the conclusion of this advisory group. Articles 72, 86 and 87 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act Family and Environment
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16955	We are now negotiating the Family and Environment Advisory Group. It covers Articles 72, 86 and 87. The rapporteur was invited to initiate the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16973	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to ask the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 72, 86 and 87 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report (95 of the Supplements).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e16991	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. First word message: Mrs Aumayr. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17016	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A little tired now that the voting machinery is over. – You are always longing for parliamentarian Haider. And then when he's there, keep getting up with what he says. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's in the sauna! He'll be burned tomorrow!]] You fled, Mr Schwarzenberger, with your farm lobby. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Haider is in the sauna!]] Today, however, you finally pulled the emergency brake and came back forward. But it was very interesting how the Members of the Government have behaved in the vote. The Secretary-General of the ÖVP – who has unfortunately left the room – has read newspaper throughout the vote. She got up and read the news. So "important" for the Secretary-General of the ÖVP, the vote on this law is really crucial for Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: Where was the shark in the vote? How important was your clubman's vote?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's in the sauna!]] It has proved to be true that today and throughout the negotiations in the committees you have disfellowshipped Parliament. The Committee negotiations were a single farce. Two hours were reserved for the structural adjustment laws on the environment, and of these two hours, Minister for the Environment, you alone needed 80 minutes for your unit. That is to say, for Members, relatively little time has remained. The feeling of frustration and frustration for the opposition politicians during the Committee's negotiations was certain. I wonder how the representatives of the government parties feel in such an action of evangelism. I can understand this relatively hard. Have you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ really not pressed the democratic conscience? - Probably not. But you can also calm down the democratic conscience by simply not having one. [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is the case with you!]] If this is the Second Republic, if that is the parliamentaryism you want to preserve, then good night, Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You're bending, you're twisting the Constitution as you please, and you're right to be afraid of it. They act as guardians of the Constitution and change it with a stroke, such as EU accession. [[Abg. Elmecker: The method: Hold the thief!]] They only use the Constitution for your scrapping actions and for your citizens' burdens. The stronger and the faster you continue to act in this direction by the ÖVP, the better for us, the more liberal. They are taking step by step against the Third Republic, proposed by us, of every argument. – This is the only good thing about this action you delivered yesterday and today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister for the Environment and now also for Family and Youth! As such, you have just recently spoken, as a family minister, with a proposal that the standing officer should in future inform the married couple of their duties in the household. Could you, Mr Federal Minister, not write a paper on the duty to separate waste, which the stand officials have to read? Her predecessor left a lot in this area; in all cases, mountains of garbage. For example, you could, Minister of State, to return to the office, to activate the duty to separate waste. I hope you will also know, Minister of State, where the aluminium lids come from the yogurt cups, whether they come into the yellow bag. – This is the waste policy of the Federal Government, and he is responsible for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where do the aludecks come from, Minister of State: In the yellow bag, in the waste or in the waste cube for metal? Or where does the used toothbrush come from? But it's going to be very close for the stand-off officer when the brides ask: What are we supposed to do for, why should we separate? And what happens to the waste that is penablely separated from us, for example, with the plastic waste? Then the stand-off officer would have to say: 80 percent are separated, expensively separated, and then they are stored, dangerously stored, for burning. Only 20 percent are reused. The trash has never been so expensively separated in Austria. The packaging industry is expanding, and, Mr Federal Minister, the garbage mountains are increasing, as you can see from statistics. The waste disposal has never been so expensive at all. The budgets, Mr Bundesminister, have reached the border of loadability. The companies have huge competitive disadvantages, precisely because of the high costs. Nothing is collected in Austria as expensive as garbage. Now this government – and you, Mr. Minister, represent this "waste insanity" as well – increases the old load contributions up to 600 s per tonne. With the increase in old-age contributions by an average of four times, there is a significant increase in the burden on economic operators, households and municipalities. This means that waste policy is slowly becoming unfinancingable. Instead of finally starting to solve the problem where it arises, for example, in producing packaging material from strength, for example, to give the lead, you continue to stick to the production of packaging material, for example, made of plastic. They talk about the ecological tax reform and agree to an energy tax, a tax that inspires under the cover of "ecology", but that name is absolutely not worth it. Instead of really working as an environmental minister for an environmental tax reform, you agree to the introduction of an energy tax, which, in turn, only taxes businesses and does nothing to the environment at all. Federal Minister! This waste policy burdenes taxpayers, distributes the last traders, benefits the environment little, and makes the waste mountains rise. I can only say one thing: This waste policy, Minister of State, belongs to waste disposal! I will also come back briefly to the definition of waste types. I think this is really problematic, because I wonder how the planned levelling of old-age contributions by landfill types and not by type of waste should work. During the transitional period until the adaptation of the old landfills to the new landfill regulation, it is still to be distinguished by types of waste, but there is only more a division, namely, by building waste and by land excavation and other waste. There is therefore no clear differentiation of the potential for risk according to the old rules. This differentiation is to be made in accordance with the landfill regulation on the landfill type. But what should happen to the hazardous types of waste, Mr Federal Minister, until the transitional period, that is to say until 2004, remains really questionable. I would ask you to consider a change in this direction or to consider a change in this old-age recovery law. Another point is the promotion of the environment abroad. There is a strong increase in the budget. There have always been only immaterial values for environmental promotion abroad. This has been changed, that is, it will now also pay for money. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: It has been paid so far!]] So far, we have provided advice and expertise to our eastern neighbours. If, despite the savings package, we are now giving more money for environmental promotion abroad, I am looking for you to be very careful about it, because what our neighbouring countries think of our commitment ultimately, we have to experience today: The Mochovce power plant is built despite the massive use of the Austrian Federal Government and hundreds of thousands of signatures of Austrian citizens and against the will of Austria – despite many support and support. 150 km from Austria, 150 km from Vienna, one of the most dangerous types of nuclear power plants is now being built. I believe that this is more than worrying. I would ask you to act in this direction at least within the framework of the EU and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17165	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17189	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Gusenbauer rightly pointed out, at the previous item on the agenda, that there are conflicting objectives in budget creation and that there is an obligation to set priorities. That's quite right. It is all the more remarkable, especially with regard to the environmental chapter, that in times of savings budgets, where we have to achieve a saving volume of around 100 billion schilling, we have been able to make targeted use of additional resources for environmental protection measures, and that is just as remarkable in this respect, environmental measures that have strong employment-stimulating effects and will bring about 10,000 additional jobs. In general, it should be noted that the environmental market in Austria will rise sharply by the year 2000. At present, we have already employed about 11 000 people in this whole area, and we expect growth rates of around 8 per cent per year – a not insignificant and not limited significant impact, which we can now stimulate by these measures in the budget, through the structural adjustment laws. Very concrete and fast to a few points, first of all to promote the environment: This special tranche for the urban water industry will create another 3 000 jobs for an industry, namely the civil engineering industry, which already has a third in urban water construction. There will be a special tranche of 1 billion schilling in this area, which is certainly a very effective measure, both for environmental policy and for employment and employment policy. And that is to be described as really very positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The extension of operational environmental promotion, now transformed into a general environmental promotion by the Structural Adjustment Act, will also help us to promote, in particular, CO2-avoiding and reducing measures, i.e. climate protection measures. Indeed, some of the 206 operational environmental projects supported in 1995 have already been established in 199 in this area, in the area of alternative energy sources and CO2-reducing measures. The energy tax measure, the redeployment of some 800 million schilling, which comes from energy taxation, will also go back to the countries via financial compensation, for environmental measures, for climate protection measures, increased by 200 million schilling from the field of environmental promotion, i.e. 1 billion schilling, will be very effective in this area, namely climate protection. On the third point: Old load rehabilitation. As the landfill regulation will regulate and prescribe the equipment and mode of operation of landfills according to the latest state of the art, it will now be possible to avoid or eliminate distortions of competition by means of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act, which is what old landfills and new ones are about to do. We will be able to control the contribution of old loads more effectively and, above all, we will be able to achieve additional resources for the rehabilitation of old loads. In the course of the discussion on the level of contributions on the one hand, i.e. the discussion on the feasibility, and on the other hand on the ecological requirements in the design of the contributions, we have managed, as I believe, to achieve a very acceptable compromise, Mr Minister, even though it was almost like a spagate, to bring the very opposite interests into a hat, but above all not to neglect the ecological approach. I think this is really a good, very useful and effective compromise. I believe that the following can be held in conclusion and in summary with regard to the chapter on the Environment – it has already been said: Budgets are political programmes cast in figures –: There is a remarkable offensive programme that will help us to develop a sustainable development of our lives and, above all, of the Austrian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17250	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17271	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Kopf says that budgets are programmed in numbers, I agree with him. The only question is what program you meant. For the National Environmental Plan, which we know Mr Bartenstein is behind it, and we know that this is really happening, has certainly not been implemented in the budget. I therefore believe that the Federal Minister may be able to implement the reform of energy taxation here in front of the House today. With regard to reform of energy taxation, the National Environmental Plan states that renewable energy sources must have relatively higher prices than renewable energy sources, which, as we believe liberals, have the right assessment that renewable energy sources must be given priority over renewable energy sources, because in an economy coordinated by prices, the price system must also reflect these objectives. If that were a programme, Mr President, then it would have had to have been the power tax law, the natural gas tax law, the energy tax compensation law. But that's not the case. As has already been done today from this point of view: The combined heat and power is ecologically useful, and this is also explicitly said in several places – I refer again to pages 122 and 123 of this very comprehensive and good report and planes – but it is not done in the concrete implementation. [[Abg. Head: There are other means of implementation than those proposed by you!]] There are other means of implementation, but I can say that about 8. February of this year at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs – not directly in the place of Mr Bartenstein’s Federal Minister – a meeting on wind power and the possibilities for it, which expressly stated: Investment promotions, which are one-time payments and do not run through tariff promotion, will hardly be made because the budget room is simply too narrow. - That's right. And so these other possibilities are very, very limited. The question is: Why does a government template, which must be presented unanimously by a federal government, not take into account what Mr Bartenstein – rightly – stands for and what is also high on his account? Why did he not prevail on this question? Why has the EIA not been implemented overall when it comes to biomass, to favouring renewable energy, for example, when it comes to biogas, which should be a very important activity in the future, especially in the agricultural sector, especially for small farmers and for farmers. All this has been forgotten because only one thing has been said in the foreground: not structural adjustment, but panic-like money acquisition. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This also shows, ladies and gentlemen, the laws quoted by me at the outset, which concern only the Federal Minister for the Environment, because this is not directly assigned to his place of business, but was naturally addressed on the National Environmental Plan. The Environmental Promotion Act, according to Article 86 of the Structural Adjustment Act in the division of the Coalition Parties, also considers the Liberals to be useful in extending the operational environmental promotion to environmental promotion, which also begins to cover the non-commercial sector. In general, it makes sense to promote abroad in the future. Not only intangible services, but also direct implementation of such measures are good, because, although studies have been carried out so far, how to avoid environmental pollution on Austrian soils, which have their starting point abroad, but have failed to implement it, this is a way to counter it now. We believe that this is positive, even if it takes place from the point of view of budget beauty, that we sell demands in the field of environmental promotion, but the money there leaves in the fund – which we consider to be useful, that it has only been held. Overall, it is okay that the money will remain in the field of environmental promotion, but it is of course a budget beauty: Today, to sell claims at the expense of future budgets, is another thing that fits what is done here in total with this Structural Adjustment Act. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen: In terms of content, the Environmental Promotion Act makes sense. We believe that the old-age restructuring law will not succeed in eliminating distortions of competition between new landfills and old landfills with those prices that are fixed, but we will create old loads in the years up to the implementation of the landfill regulation, which we will then have to reorganise with a much higher amount. This is an assessment which is also widely shared by industry. We will therefore reject Article 87 of the Structural Adjustment Act. Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of the environment, too, the Structural Adjustment Act makes it quite clear that: You have really given priority to getting money more than to a structural thinking that you have announced in many other areas, including the National Environmental Plan. That's a shame, because that's more than a given chance. Our consent will be They therefore do not receive them as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17317	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller came to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17338	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Doppelmüller with tie!]] Why don't I have a tie? It's a nice thing. It's a fit with a sailboat! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Fit! I need to know!]] I'll let 'em look at you carefully, it's environmentally friendly. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I can't stay with you for so long now. I would have liked to have dealt with the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, not for long, because it makes little sense to do so, but obviously she joins her party chairman, who has created something new today. I knew Mahatma Gandhi's nonviolent resistance. Haider creates the presenceless resistance here. - It's not bad either! [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I am not going to go into dangerous yoghurt cups, on packaging out of strength and so on, because I hope that the "old" chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Karl Schweitzer, after whom I almost longed for this speech, will return to his office, I hear, and I would of course very much welcome that compared to what was offered by the new chairmen today. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am no longer going to the ALSAG, which is also inside this package, that has already been done by my colleague. I would just like to say that I am very glad that this is the case, because it makes it quite clear that the bad, old landfills and that at all the reactor ponies are likely to belong to the past – the bad ones earlier and the better equipped ones even after a certain period of time – and then we actually only deposit more things that are so to speak earth-like or no longer reactive. That's going in the right direction. This is certainly the way to combustion, Mr Langthaler. I was recently with some colleagues in Wels. I'm convinced of this technology. – They are not, but perhaps over time it will still be possible to convince you. Mr. Barmüller! I also think that the National Environmental Plan is very good, and it should be a basis for our future policy. Unfortunately, God was presented to us, but we have not yet treated him in any form in the house. I would like to welcome it if it would be possible to discuss it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and to use it as a guideline. Only: As part of this budget, I think it is premature to implement this environmental plan or essential parts. However, I believe that both the Coalition Convention and this package already contain important parts, so that we can go the way in the right direction. I am particularly pleased that these Novelle environmental promotion laws, which also agree with the Liberals, will be based here and that much more resources will be available: 1 billion schilling in addition to the area of settlement water management, 1 billion schilling in the area of old load rehabilitation. In addition to this effect on the environment, this will also safeguard or create jobs. This is also a way in the right direction. In addition, we have also promoted the eco-funds, which will for the first time promote not only intangible services, but also material services for investment-related measures in the immediate neighbouring countries, if this has an environmental-relieving impact on Austria. This is very important to me, because we are suffering from the fact that we – the SO2 tag – were very good in this respect, but our neighbours did not keep up with it by far. On the whole, I believe that from the point of view of environmental policy, we can welcome and support these measures. I am also not dissatisfied with the overall budget. Of course, we would want more and more, but one must also stretch to the ceiling. I would like to remind you again and again that it is not only the federal budget that is being used for environmental policy, but also countries, municipalities, private, industry and industry which also contribute to it. I would also like to say a very personal opinion and advocacy here – a replication on Mr Barmüller: I shall certainly not be very pleased with some of my colleagues, but I will support my colleagues, and I will also insist that, with regard to the ecologicalisation of our tax policy, environmental taxes come to a committee of inquiry, a committee of inquiry, which is provided for in our Rules of Procedure and which I believe has also proved successful in the German Bundestag. I am going to do so in a massive way within the framework of my possibilities. Moreover, there are two articles in the "Wiener Zeitung" today, two positions on the Austrian environmental policy, one from me. In other words, I am no longer going to spread about it, especially in view of the hour ahead. An article comes from Mr Langthaler, who writes that in principle we do not have an environmental policy. However, I assume that the Minister, who is somewhat afflicted today by the fridge regulation, the packaging regulation and so on, will continue to address it. At any rate, I believe that we have set the course again in order to bring forward, in this new legislative period – which I hope will last for four years, so that we have enough time to work – essential projects within the meaning of Austrian environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17401	Mrs Monika Langthaler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go. Maximum speaking time: 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17431	I know you're happy! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Honestly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When you talk for 30 minutes, you get a gift: a corn piston!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Klubobmann Khol! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When you talk for 20 minutes, you get two corn pistons!]] [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] My previous speakers have expressed themselves relatively briefly on the subject of environmental policy due to the advanced hour. There would be much to say about this, but even without your gifts, Mr Klubobmann Khol, I will try to take a short look, especially because a budget debate on the Environment chapter remains unsatisfying for environmentalists, as long as so important areas relating to ecology are simply excluded, because they do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. I would therefore like to mention here at the beginning of my remarks: It is simply a lie for a modern environmental policy if one of the most important areas, namely energy policy, does not fall within the domain of the Minister for the Environment. The same would, of course, be necessary for the so important area of transport. That is why any environmental debate that is a general debate, such as in the budget or in the structural adjustment law, which goes into detail, is simply unsatisfactory because one cannot deal with the real major problems of the future. The overall environmental policy is – and this, of course, shows this budget and this also shows other legislation we get in this House – in an extremely difficult phase: Economicly uncertain times, the pressure on the labour market, all of this, of course, makes it difficult to have an environmental policy, which is still seen as competition in many areas in the field of labour market policy. Environmental laws are therefore again very often perceived as disturbing; only today have we experienced this. If there is to be a waste management law novelle, Mr Environment Minister, who has become known to us today in extracts, with changes in plant facilities, with deviations in the field of party positions, this shows that all of this is going in one direction and pressure is being exerted on environmental law, namely in the direction of deregulation. And that cannot be in our sense, not in the sense of environmentalists. We must therefore urgently move from the ideology of repair measures in environmental policy to a truly comprehensive environmental policy, which sets out preventive measures and seeks to solve the problems in a comprehensive way. I have been quoting again and again for months because this has played such a major role by the Federal Government in the sale of good environmental policy, the OECD report. I believe, Mr Doppelmüller, that it is precisely this report that Austria has lost its pioneering role, which we actually had in the 1970s and 1980s, especially in the field of pollutant minimization of sulphur dioxide, but of course also in the area of river and lake conservation. There are various publications, international publications, which show this – and this is also reflected in this study. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I do not want to mention this in detail because of the advanced time here, but only to mention an example from the transport sector: We have the largest growth rates across Europe, with an increase of 80.3 percent from 1970 to 1981. This has now become a problem, and there are no real measures by the Federal Government at all. But now to the structural adjustment laws. I have already mentioned in the Committee: We will be very pleased to agree to the Environmental Promotion Act. I am very pleased, of course, as an opposition politician, that I can actually find in this law some demands, long-standing demands of the Greens – Mr Barmüller has already mentioned it –: Funding not only immaterial, but also material services abroad is simply necessary and correct. All in all, this law is a good basis for environmental promotion, even though we have, of course, become more and more involved in the concrete provision of resources, particularly in the area of eastern development. If Mrs Aumayr has spoken here today, you can see what the "evil" Slovaks are doing in spite of the massive use of the Austrian Federal Government, I cannot give her right at all, because what they really needed, namely, concrete financing models and money – and of course there can not only be Austria, but there must be a whole Western Europe – that has simply not come in the form. And that is why it is a defeat for us, for the environmentalists in Austria who have been very committed to it. It is to be described as our inability to say that we have not been able not only to oppose it and not only to be proud of all of us in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung), who signs where. Minister for the Environment, these PR stories are a little too little for us. What is important is to provide a financial framework, and just a budget debate provides the framework for constantly drawing attention to it. These countries in Eastern Europe need money. When you read about the threat potential for large cities in the "profile" last week, you can see that in Vienna the biggest threat potential is coming from the eastern reactors, that this is a real threat potential – in part far more than the ever-informed military threat potential. It would therefore be necessary to provide financial assistance in a large way. However, it is disappointing that this is hardly mentioned by the Federal Chancellor, in particular, and that, more than ever, we have escaped the goal of a nuclear-free Central Europe. The second area next to the Environmental Promotion Act, which is decided here today: the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. What really depressed me in the committee was this immense driving - and especially in this area - on the proposals of the opposition, especially on the proposals of the Greens. For many years we have been engaged in the old-age recovery law, especially the failure of this law. One can now argue whether some 700 million schillings are withdrawn a year or whether it is even more what is going to come in. The fact is, however, that the control of this law, the collection of these charges, must have been strengthened quite differently than it has just happened. There are various ways to discuss. One of these options, for example, is whether it would be more sensible to abolish the commitment of purpose – we have discussed this before – in order to give the Minister of Finance a major and political incentive, in principle, so that he finally instructs the financial authorities to control far more in this respect than is the case now. I have often experienced in discussions with finance ministers that they meant: What interests me, then, is the contribution of the old burden, and the money does not belong to me anyway, which travels to the Ministry of the Environment, which is still politically different; I therefore have relatively little interest in it; they will already come out with the 200 million schilling a year. Ladies and gentlemen! That's unbearable, too! This is unbearable if one sees that the existing contributions have had to be made much more for the recovery of old loads. There is an incredibly great potential of old loads in Austria. We need billions for the renovation, but we will not create a real solution with this innovation either. The story of this novel is a bit strange. In the first draft in the autumn of 1995, a much greater increase in contributions was originally planned, especially in this way – and this would have been very important to us – those wastes that would have come to old landfills, i.e. without basic sealing and sicker water collection, in order to prevent, or to avoid, new old loads from the outset by this law. We have tried to predict to you that in the Committee - in the short term - there will hardly be an increase in real resources due to the current increase. In the current law, the assumptions from your ministry, how much waste is stored, would have to be stored around 500 000 S, i.e. 489 956 S. According to our calculations, based on the law we now decide, it is about 580 000 p.a., about 100 000 p.a.. We are based on figures that we – and that after 15 years of debate on this – cannot fully understand on the basis of the documents from your Ministry of the Environment, according to which only 3.6 million tonnes of contribution-based waste are to be found in Austria's landfills. We see, like so many waste disposal companies in our country, a much larger amount: 7 to 8 million tonnes, which we have to calculate – and therefore, of course, a much greater amount of old-age contributions. It would have required far more detailed consultation in the Committee, particularly with regard to these completely different numerical materials, which differ by far more than 100 per cent. It has already been assured to us by your predecessor, then again and again by you, Mr Federal Minister, on the subject of old-age reorganisation, to conduct a serious debate on parliamentary ground. – That's not happening, and that's a huge disappointment. I think you made the same mistake with this law six years ago: You don't see the real situation. They are based on an ideal state of affairs and therefore – wherever the fault lies, perhaps in your ministry, in the bureaucracy, where one does not see the real state of what the landfills are about to arrive – they come to false conclusions. One should have listened, for example, to the waste disposal companies in a committee, including affected communities – and then one should have decided in what form the increases at what level, but above all, as a second point, are doing better control. This is how everyone, like the city of Vienna or other cities that pay their contributions, is actually a crazy person, while others lose their obligation to contribute. We will by no means give our consent to this, and we are already predicting to you today that in a few years we will be faced with the same problems as is the case with this novel. Thirdly, the energy tax, which is not now directly decided on in this chapter, but which has already been dealt with before, is very soon. – The major criticism is of course that alternative energy sources are not exempted from this tax. That's unbearable! How can electricity coming from nuclear power be treated as electricity from wind power? And if it is already so that you do not take this out explicitly – which I think is a massive mistake – then at the same time – or your colleague Ditz – you would have to put forward a legislative proposal for a better feed-in condition of electricity, which comes from alternative energies, especially from wind turbines. There are such laws in Germany, for example. Five years ago, a law on better feed-in conditions for electricity coming from wind turbines was passed in Germany. What happened there? – Within five years the performance has weakened there! There are really serious plants that work well, where one can actually talk about a very, very reasonable volume of investment, so that wind power becomes a very serious alternative to fossil energy, especially in the months that are important to us, namely in winter. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And bring jobs!]] And bring jobs, exactly, deputies! The second point in the energy tax: As far as the 800 million schillings are concerned, which are now to be given to the countries for climate protection measures, this is done a little with trust and faith; there is no real agreement on this. In this respect, we would have proposed a motion for a resolution which, unfortunately, would not have received the approval of the government parties. I think it is a mistake to give the countries the money without agreeing precisely, on point and point of view, or to force them more or less gently, that they really need to use this money for energy measures. We've seen how this is going, at this "near traffic billion". For some projects – asphalting of forest roads et cetera – funds were used for foreign purposes, especially for the ecological areas originally intended. I believe that there is money for the countries – and so has bought their political agreement for this area of energy taxation. But I think it just from the experience of recent years for a great mistake that They have not made much more concrete decisions with the countries where what is to be financed, yes. Disappointingly for me, as still a great advocate of EU accession, is that: Austria has not yet played an active role in European environmental policy, has not played a pioneering role. An example which I quote every time I ask you to take action in some form, Mr Minister of the Environment, is the field of glass bottles for mineral waters. It's probably a very extreme side track, but that's not it. There is a glass bottle bid in Austria so far. We all know that mineral water is filled in glass. ==References== As in Italy, France, in the Benelux countries and so on, we will be faced with a huge amount of new waste, which would be avoidable. If you are serious about the prevention of waste, this would be a very, very good opportunity to make a separate regulation in this regard. I am convinced that – and I have discussed this with many lawyers –: This would be EU-compliant, even if there were problems, but one would have to have the Courage to try to go one's own way, in order to encourage other countries, who see this in a similar way, especially the Scandinavian countries, to take part in it. Finally, Ozone. It's a "ozone summer" at the door. I cannot see what has been done here by the Federal Government on measures for this year in environmental policy. I am pleased, Mr Environment Minister, when I read in the paper that you are signing against the genetically engineered maize and, so to speak, taking the position of the environmentalists and the greens. I would be particularly pleased if your attitude were consistent and if you were to call for it at the same time in the draft legislation on pesticides and plant protection products law of Mr Molterer. Federal Minister Molterer wants to withdraw your participation skills and give us another law that will throw us back behind the year 1948. So there would be a little more consistency on your part. In any case, we hope that you will have considerable opposition to the present draft law. The terrible example of the accident at Düsseldorf Airport and the enormous damage caused by this fire there points to an ancient theme of environmental policy, Mr. Deputieser Doppelmüller – that has made us known to Greens more than ten years ago – namely the subject of PVC. This is really an absurd example of how little we have come to the point of getting out of chlorine chemistry. It is a shame that these materials are still being used. The then Minister of the Environment Flemming submitted a draft in 1989 which would have foreseen an exit from the PVC. Back then, the then Minister of Economics, Count, pewted her back very quickly. It is a pity that there always needs to be a disastrous occasion to at least think a little about these dangerous plastics – there are not only PVC but also other toxic materials. It would also be a sign of Courage, of courage to set a mark as a member of the European Union and to reflect again on a ban on this plastic at least for short-lived products and packaging, because there are a lot of alternatives. All in all, my speech has become longer than I did, Mr Khol, but I am now actually coming to the conclusion and saying: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, the two corn pistons are already here! If you talk any longer, it's only one!]] Environmental policy would be a broad field, and it is also worth being discussed in detail. I thank you very much, Mr Khol, for your attention. Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17557	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17579	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Kopf has formulated that a budget is a programme cast in figures. And if I repeat once again that the offensive nature of this environmental budget in particular must be reflected in the fact that you, Mrs Langthaler, once again formulated that the conflict would at least slow down environmental policy on the one hand and labour market policy on the other. This is certainly not the case in the present budget, because the multiple amendments to the Environmental Promotion Act and the grant of special tranches on the one hand in the area of urban water management, i.e. wastewater and sewerage, and on the other hand in the field of waste disposal will indeed bring in total 10 000 additional jobs addressed by Karlheinz Kopf: the special tranche of 1 billion schilling in the urban water industry as a whole with additional effects 4,000 jobs, the special tranche of 1 billion schilling for ALSAG twice 500 million – once in 1996 and once in 1997 – and some 3 000 jobs and the equally attractive measures in the energy tax field 3 000 jobs in the next two years alone. That is to say, the nature of this environmental budget is offensive, offensive in two directions: one towards an improved environmental policy and the other at an impact on the labour market, which we will urgently need in the next few years. Every job that can be created is important. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it was said here that the environmental promotion law, in particular, makes sense with its opening towards east promotion, I am very clearly contradicting the honourable Member, Aumayr, who, in the meantime, obviously followed her clubman and, unfortunately, can no longer be present, who said that money would come to the East. This up to 100 million Schilling Environmental Funding, which can now also be used materially in eastern projects, can only be granted if, as honourable Members said, there are direct positive influences on Austria's environmental situation. So I am disappointed at today's obvious signing of the contract with regard to Mochovce, namely in Bratislava: Let us not forget that only four smoke gas desulphurisation projects, which could promote Austria, namely Hodonin and Podhradi in the Czech Republic, Nové Zámky in Slovakia, Sostanj in Slovenia, brought a reduction in the volume of no less than 231,000 tonnes of SO2, with a total emissions of just 75 000 tonnes from all SO2 issuers in Austria, a huge lever that could be achieved in the past by environmental aid to the East, in favour of our environmental situation. I therefore believe that we should continue along this path. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As far as the Novelle law on waste is concerned, I am absolutely not obliged to do so if Mr Aumayr says that she misses a special scheme for hazardous waste. This was a crux in the past, that the significantly higher load of hazardous waste has led many people not to declare it and thus to give it where it is being stored in a building shed or other way. In fact, it is also true that control possibilities will be improved precisely by the fact that in future we will not lose the amount of old-age reorganisation contributions, but will be abolished in the case of landfills, because it will only be possible to determine the quantity per landfill and will be relatively simple - I emphasize - to measure the volume of tax, and because we will also require the supervisory authority of the respective landfills with this ALSAG-Novelle to report that to the respective main customs office and ensure a very direct traffic towards the financial authority. As far as Mr Langthaler's proposal is concerned, the aim is to eliminate the following: Not that this wouldn't have any appeal, just: So much for the Minister of Finance, it is up to all the ministers of finance not to like commitments of purpose in general. I experience this similarly in the area of settlement water management – and also "sleigh" in the area of the family tax compensation fund. I mean, that would open doors that we wouldn't get through anymore. I warn you to open this door, as I said, only one gap wide. Mrs Langthaler! These are the same experts who also give you a hearing, namely those of the Federal Environment Agency, who tell us that although some of the charges in the field of old-age rehabilitation are not being delivered, the figures you mention are 700 million schilling or even more excessive. We believe that a maximum of 300 million schillings per year have not been paid. We hope that the better control options will lead to a fall in this order in the future and that the payment discipline will be improved. As far as energy taxation is concerned, I should like to come very briefly, Mr Barmüller, to say that I have a very limited sense of joy with this, and also with regard to the design of this energy tax, if I think only of the stageling of taxation. I could have imagined otherwise than to burden the 75 per cent hydropower electricity with 10 sizes per kilowatt hour. I don't have to do this any more. But in principle I believe that energy taxation is therefore ecologically acceptable, because there will be this partial commitment of over 800 million schillings per year towards countries, because it has been targeted at energy-saving and environmentally friendly measures and because, secondly, in the budget, I am the Minister for the Environment, and I am the Minister for the Environment, Environment and Consumer Policy, 200 million schilling is specifically intended for alternative energy sources. We will invest this mainly in the direction of wind power, especially in the direction of other renewable energy sources, especially in the direction of combined heat and power. Although I know that the feed-in regulation or this Treaty, which exists here, will be renegotiable because it expires at the end of the year, I think that overall the situation for renewable energy sources will be improved, because the tax share now due to it is relatively lower compared to the total resources available from the support measures. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe this is a viable environmental budget. It is also not the case that the sale of claims, Mr Barmüller, is, for example, a means of budget beauty. On the other hand, there is provision as expressly formulated in the UFG-Novelle for the fact that the proceeds have to remain in the fund, excluding a direct budget cosmetics, which I would not support. Let me close with a note that goes towards Europe. Mrs Langthaler, because you cut ozone, is a small example. I quote here the editor Kraus from the press, who just a few days ago meant that Austria's influence in Brussels was visible within the framework of the EU, especially in the air freight light line, this so important roof directive. Austria has been fully implemented, because at the last minute we succeeded in making a target value in the Ozone Council, which would otherwise have been there alone, a target value whose non-achievement results from the Commission. So especially Ozon is a good example of Austria not only making a statement on a very important environmental issue at European level, but also maintaining itself. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's still a lot to say. The advanced hour forbids me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17666	The next speaker is Mr Wurmitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17696	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of a government party, of course, we do not expect the opposition to praise us, which would be too much to demand, but we can still demand two things from our opposition parties: first of all that they are objective. This is also true of the Langthaler Members. It has long been proved – if you read the OECD report, then you know it very well – that Austria has played a pioneering role in terms of environmental policy and is still playing a role today. What we also demand from the opposition on the other hand is that it should be debated properly, that it should not make a complaint on the one hand that it is going over everywhere, but that it should take advantage of all the possibilities provided by the Rules of Procedure to use all the tricks to relocate the proper discussion over a subject far beyond midnight. That's what I blame you for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to discuss with us honestly, then you should choose a time that does not go into the new day. I'd like to tell you this very clearly. That is why we must also reject the accusation of driving over with determination. [[Abg. Scheibner: What will happen all week?]] You do not want to discuss it, you did not want it in committee, you do not want it here either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We would have had time in committee!]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] The main theme of the future will be jobs. I have therefore examined the chapter on the environment from the point of view of the employment policy effects and have, logically and consistently, come across the chapter on urban water management in Austria, which is regulated by the Environmental Promotion Act. I'm allowed to make the balance here. Since the entry into force of this law in 1993, a total of 14.977 billion Schillings have been used to finance a total investment of 42.779 billion Schillings. That's a huge sum. The average rate of funding was 35.01 percent, and thousands of jobs in this area had already been secured in the past. Over the next twelve years, there will be an investment requirement of around 200 billion schilling in Austria, and the share of public funding will be around 60 billion schilling. If we now know about this requirement and calculate the figures from the 1996 and 1997 budgets, we can see that they meet this requirement. There will be 3.9 billion schilling of funding by the year 2000. In addition to the two special tranches in 1996 and 1997, the figure is around 5 billion schilling a year, which can be taken into account. These funds are highly effective both for employment and for investment. They are used here in Austria and also effective here. I'm calling the numbers here: A total of 45 000 workers are employed in the construction of Austria. Only 18 000 jobs are secured by the supported urban water industry, and some 5 000 jobs are still available in regional water associations, so that every second job in the civil engineering sector is secured by the urban water industry. That is why a one billion grant commitment was already decided in February 1996 and on 22 February 1996 it was adopted. A further 2 billion schilling will be released in May. I would like to thank Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein very much for taking account of the needs of the labour market in Austria in a wise way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I have also looked at the regional balance sheets in the individual Länder and I may mention the figures. I mention the degree of disposal of the individual federal states in relation to the waste water question: Burgenland: 81.2%, Lower Austria: 64.6 percent, Upper Austria: 65.3 percent, Salzburg: 78.7%, Styria: 66.8 percent, Tirol: 77.5%, this is a pleasantly high quota; the same applies to Vorarlberg at 75.9 percent; the state of Vienna has an exception of 96.4 percent, and the final light follows Carinthia with 56.5 percent. Those who reject the Environmental Promotion Act today need to know that they are also voting against a continuation of the successful path of the urban water economy in Austria. They must be aware of this. The fact that the 23 000 jobs in this area do not mean anything in the future and that workers cannot rely on them in this area, we will tell the people outside. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] I take out the example of Carinthia. It is the federal state with the lowest rate. Carinthia does not use hundreds of millions of funding this year. Only this year could a billion schillings be installed. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In which state?]] In the Federal Republic of Carinthia. It does not happen, although this federal state has the highest unemployment rate and although it has the highest share of the construction economy in Austria. This situation is simply unbearable for me, and we will ensure that something is done here with all our means and emphasis. Finally, I would like to say: If you ask me who is responsible for the settlement water industry in Carinthia, I can tell you: It's the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17797	The next speaker is Mr Hofmann. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17818	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer, I would have been quite surprised if it had not been mentioned at the end of your speech the FPÖ, which has done something wrong somewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He spoke about his home community!]] I already know that you do not respect the role of the opposition we, as I believe, perceive, whose rights we exercise, but of course their obligation to do so. Nevertheless, not everything is as beautiful as you're trying to present it here. Mr. Federal Minister! With regard to the Water Economic Fund, which has been rewritten with 3.9 billion schilling in the budget and is now experiencing an increase of one billion schilling, I would like to say that a reduction in the number of construction projects, completed projects which can and should be financed in this area, and certainly also the mountain of open applications for support must be reduced as quickly as possible. There is known to be an EU directive. This EU Directive shows that settlement areas with a population equivalent of more than 15 000 to 31. It is necessary to ensure appropriate disposal on December 2000. Even for associated settlement areas in the order of 2 000 to 15 000 inhabitants, this is up to 31. ==References== That is to say, it is appropriate to have a higher level of funding, or, as I believe, a higher level of funding, in order to ensure that it is financed. Of course, it should be seen as positive once the financing is secured by the year 2000, with no adjustment in relation to this 3.9 billion schilling, without a valorization according to the construction cost index, ultimately reducing by around 20 percent by 2000, which will lead to a reduction in the size of the building. In principle, the amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act allows the possibility to carry out divestments of the environmental and water economic fund claims. A commitment of purpose, i.e. a stay of due revenue in the area of the respective funds, is to be regarded here as essential. Federal Minister! In the context of the Water Economic Fund, her predecessor made a clear statement in response to a question put by the liberals that it would be impossible for an agenda to be delivered to private operators. I should now like to ask you whether you will continue this policy, which would be desirable. I think that a tax on private operators at the waste water price, which is currently to be estimated at around 30 s, would certainly bring a huge increase in the order of about 100 per cent. In other words, in some areas, it would rise to 60 s. In less densely populated areas, this would generate a further increase to an average of 170 percent. It would eventually pay 80 s per cubic metre of wastewater. I consider it necessary to say something to the previously treated Energy Tax Remuneration Act. The relationship with the environment seems not only useful and appropriate at first, but it is indeed. The government is talking about a ceiling on energy tax, which is supposed to be 0.35% of the net production value of an industry. The fact is that although this sounds very positive when one speaks of an energy tax refund, one should choose a different name, namely energy tax retention, which depends on the level of the net production value. Recompensation is a Quasi loan with interest-rate losses for which the industry ultimately has to pay. The result is ultimately a million-height interest rate loss. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Reimbursement of this reimbursement may only take place at the end of the marketing year. It is therefore a loan granted by industry, by traders to the Federal Government. This law is anti-investment, anti-structural and ultimately anti-environmental in this form. Why? – Compare two plants with almost the same net production value, but with different energy requirements due to different plants. Compare a business with modern plants and the opposite a business with an energy consumption through plants with obsolete technologies. They will see that a company with obsolete technology ultimately comes into the enjoyment of higher reimbursements. It has a tax advantage over that company that has applied a modern technology and has provided investment benefits accordingly. It also seems appropriate to clear with the false belief that there is no taxation in district heating. I'm sure that's not the case. Think of the district heating used to produce gas – I am thinking, for example, of the gas turbine Leopoldau with a very high efficiency of about 80 percent – as a tax on the gas takes place in the end. It is certainly a negative steering effect. I don't see a meaningful control by tax for alternative forms of production of electricity. It does not lead to a relief of electricity generation from renewable energy sources, but, as is usual in this Federal Government, holes are stopped. It is only lip recognition that renewable energy sources are not given priority, the chosen form is contrary to the national environmental plan that you ultimately carry. The whole is a short-term, not very far-reaching, money-raising action, which is being put in place here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I'm not going to get around making a few more comments to the old-age recovery. The collection of the old loads was carried out at least in sub-areas and an old load atlas with a priority range was prepared. There are, of course, grants for the renovation of those landfills, which have priority levels 1 and 2. The problem is that, according to the 1995 Environmental Control Report, there is certainly a very large number – estimated 80 000 – of old landfills or old-age industrial sites. In the case of the second, namely at the sites of industry and industry, around 30 percent should be registered. The Old Load Rehabilitation Act provides that, if a Depository becomes known as a Storage Act, the Head of State will have to intervene. A review shall be carried out in accordance with the water law law, i.e. a water inspection, a groundwater examination. And here, of course, the problem arises that, in the event that water law requires an immediate rehabilitation, no financial support is granted to those communities which are forced to implement these emergency measures, provided that they do not have priority level 1 or 2 in accordance with the Old Load Rehabilitation Act or atlas. Once a renovation is carried out, there is no longer any need for renovation, and the question arises of how the communities should finance this. I also spoke in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy about the need to achieve harmonisation here, as I do my well-known problem. I know that there are many mayors of red and black communities alike. I know that there is a great need for action here, and there should in fact be a reasonable regulation in this regard too in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17871	The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17892	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may, in a short time, deal with the collection of packaging waste from the point of view of the municipalities which worked very well before the packaging regulation; only after that there were massive cost increases for the communities. [[Abg. Böhacker: Bravo!]] The shortcomings of current practice are obvious, are known: The system is very expensive; about 4 billion schilling a year is the cost. It should be borne in mind that the packaging regulation refers only to 2% of the total volume of waste disposed of and therefore contributes only insignificantly to the reduction of waste deposited in Austria. The commitment of local citizens and their representatives is essential for the operation of municipal waste management. The packaging regulation runs counter to this because it does not create conditions for meaningful execution and practical implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I think that's where an opposition politician speaks!]] People are insecure and know if the many regulations are not how they should behave. The packaging regulation creates more problems for communities in particular than it solves. It has also made no direct contribution to reducing packaging waste. The system of licensing via the private ARA is not controllable without enormous red tape. Therefore, and because of the opening of door and gate, the regulation is also not enforceable. The ARA is guaranteed by ensuring that families do not have to pay indisputable sums hidden over the price of goods. Another main problem – in addition to other problems – is that imports are neither tangible nor controllable. The domestic packaging manufacturers are therefore suffering from distortions of competition vis-à-vis foreign producers. For the effects achieved, the cost of around 2.5 billion schilling is far too high. The separate collection and minimal material recycling, for example, account for two thirds of the total cost of the ARA system for plastics. Most of the plastics then have to be burned quite again. Also in the paper collection, 80 million commodity values are compared with 500 millions of effort. By cleaning the separately collected waste, the ecological benefits, as I mean, are also questionable. There is a shift to wastewater. One last problem is the fact that only waste disposal agents are involved in the ARA system and can thus enforce their interests. The payers of licence fees are not in the system and therefore have no influence on its design and its costs. These and other problems with the packaging regulation have led the Chamber of Labour and the Industrial Association to analyse and compare several models. Federal Minister! I would ask you to pay the necessary attention to this expert paper in the interests of a functioning waste management. The fact that the present system can still be maintained is essential to our communities. They were always willing to support or maintain the system of the Packaging Regulation, and they have already carried several financial burdens: on the one hand, in the form of support to industry recycling companies, on the other, in the field of public relations, where, contrary to other agreements, they have borne the total cost, apart from the fact that the remuneration of the companies for the services of local authorities, such as cleaning, snow-freeing and adaptation of collective bodies, is far from cost-effective. It seems more and more to be a one-sided shift, and I do not think that the communities will continue to play in this process for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! The amended framework conditions, as well as the fact that the Constitutional Court has removed the central provision of the packaging regulation, namely the obligation of consumers to introduce packaging waste into the collection system, as unlawful, should cause us to put very quickly the necessary measures in the light of the now three-year experience of a functioning waste management system. We will be happy to take part in this and will be very strong, but will not be involved when it comes to interrupting the decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17943	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e17965	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Although the hour has already advanced, I still need to make a few observations because I believe that, even though we have already experienced in committee days, what we have to say is not really taken seriously, but there are moments... [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: They weren't there at all!]] I was there, Mr President, because we only moved out after the Social Chapter had ended, and it was very impressive for me how the Social Affairs Chapter has been debated. And this impression was ultimately decisive to the Group's decision that we should not like anything like it anymore. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This does not mean, however, that we are publicly hiding when it comes to a few essential aspects. I am referring only to a prototype example of the fact that what is to be decided here and that the majority will certainly find – and this has already been guided by the media – that it does not deserve the name that is over it – namely "Structural Adjustment Act". My colleague, Mr Hazelsteiner, has already worked it out quite clearly, and every paragraph can be made clear: This is a very simple money acquisition action! Simple! To create waste water, because the roof chair burns. And this is something you should admit. People would accept this much more than being precipitated, there is some great draft behind it, the great architectural imagination of the Federal Government to reform the Republic. In reality, it is a necessary disposal water action! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Federal Minister, who is present here today, knows this very well, because he has been involved in decisions taken by his own group in the field of environmental tax reform, in which it has been clearly defined that this cannot be called energy taxes as surcharge taxes, but rather that it means a mechanism whereby resources, in particular energy, are taxed and the costs of the work of avoidable additional taxes are reduced. There are decisions of his own party, and they are all – they are not quite that old – from July last year! I've got them here with: They have also been published, one was very proud of the names Bartenstein, Ditz and Molterer are on the document. It clearly stated that, of course, only a common method of discharge versus energy taxes is possible. But that's not all. In addition, in the previous year, Wifo was also tasked with a study to consider various scenarios: What happens when? A scenario has assumed that there would have been only energy taxes and nothing else, in another scenario one has just included in the perspective the generally called ecological tax reform the exchange of resource taxes at additional labour costs. And what did the study say? – The fact that only unilateral energy taxes are introduced, which, of course, has a dramatic negative impact on the labour market. This was published, jointly presented by the three departments Science, Environment and Agriculture. And that's all gone. But what is important to me in this context is: The study was, of course, already completed before the last asymmetric budget was adopted, namely in the first half of 1995, but was only presented to the public after the decision on this budget. Question: Why? – Answer quite simply: Because even in the past budget, in the 1995 budget, there were unilateral energy taxes, i.e. the first advance on additional revenue – but only in the field of mineral oils at that time. For example, one has forgotten the gas and was then quite surprised at the distortions of competition between the energy sources of heavy fuel oil and gas. – The quality – in addition to the fact that it is, of course, very bad to make it one-sided. (a) against own party decisions, (b) against a clearly interpretable Wifo study is now done, but it is not admitted. It may only be regretted there or there. What would have been an alternative? – A possible alternative would have been to say that we now fully decide on the environmental tax reform, but suspend the reduction of additional wage costs for two years. We wouldn't have praised that, but we would have understood it, and it would have been honest. It would have been a signal to the economy in particular, because if I know today that I will be relieved in two years at the level of wage costs, then this is an additional aid in investment decisions. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But since some deadlines, some temporary measures that may come to an end again, so that the pressure for reform can be maintained – even though this has already been mentioned in the debate today – have not been taken into account at all, it is no wonder that one does not even think the other way round, that one does not say: We are making the big reform, but unfortunately we have to introduce it asymmetrically in the first two years, because we now urgently need money, which is why we urgently need money, because we have spent it easily eight years earlier. But it seems that one did not want to admit that, and only in order not to suffer the loss of prestige by admitting something by admitting that one now repairs one's own faults is made up of an X for a U. And that's very bad. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But so that I do not lose my way into the innumerable right now, perhaps an indication that the government has also provided in its own government agreement for an ecological tax reform to come because it itself sets out on the national environmental plan and its environmental guidelines. And precisely in this national environmental plan, this environmental tax reform is expressly and as a priority objective "introduce in the short term". The fact that this report has not been discussed in the National Council, because it is present during the last legislative period, but has been cut off in advance by a hasty re-election, is painful in this case because the coalition has written the environmental plan itself into the Coalition Convention. So it will probably also feel that it is still in force. But all these are apparently only beautiful words, and the real deeds are then called "Structural Adjustment Act". I would like to conclude by saying: The really tragic thing is: I fear that the government believes that what it has presented to us is really the best possible thing that you really haven't come in. I acknowledge that she believes that she has presented us with the best she can – and that is the real tragedy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18028	The next speaker is Mr Schrefel. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18080	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The high priority given by the Austrian Government to the environment at the threshold to the next millennium is reflected in the preparation of the two budget accompanying laws and also in the budgets for the years 1996 and 1997, despite the savings budget. The main focus of environmental policy is on the precautionary principle; secondly, it is necessary to strengthen the quality of costs. Although the last environmental control report – the control period extends over the two years 1993 to 1995 – is an excellent testimony to its environmental policy, this report must not in any way lead us to be satisfied with the achievement. Although we are still world leaders in reducing sulphur dioxide – do not laugh! – the CO2 emissions peaks have also decreased, and many improvements have also been made in water protection, but the key problem areas are both in Austria and internationally the emissions of greenhouse gases and ozone precursors. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum]] There is still a great deal of effort to achieve successful protection of climate and air quality. However, it is gratifying that, despite the savings budget, positive effects can be put on our country by means of the budget accompanying legislation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In recent years, if the idea of environmental protection still has priority level 1 in the population, the employment issue is more important in the current recession phase. It should therefore be stressed that the environmental policy for Austria is also a good, positive employment effect, as has already been pointed out. I would no longer like to comment on the various effects of the urban water management fund, the municipal water economy and the old-age renovation, but may say to the so-called climate billions that far-reaching projects are being promoted in the framework of the general environmental promotion of the federal government, and such a focus is the climate action plan. As I am the operator of a district heating plant, I am particularly pleased that the country will again be able to benefit 800 million Schilling from the financial compensation law, that the district heating stop, which expired in 1994, will again bring in money and that the regions will be able to return to their renewable energy resources. As part of the general environmental promotion of the federal government, another 200 million schillings are concentrated on the promotion of alternative energies and the expansion of industrial heat and power. It is not true, therefore, that there is no money here! Large CO2 reduction potentials can be used by this use of means for the expansion of district heating and for thermal insulation of old and new buildings alone. The figures on the job effects that we have heard today are not based on estimates or presumed assumptions by the government, but on calculations by the Economic Research Institute and the Austrian municipal credit. However, I would like to mention one particular point where very high efficiency and a very high energy effect are achieved, which is the so-called East Aid. The Minister has already mentioned today the savings in the emissions sector, which are considerable. I believe, as a farmer and a forestry farmer, that this major emission reduction is also causing major reductions in the impact on our environment and on the forests of Austria abroad as a whole. Mr Langthaler, who claimed that we did not actually have a model and that we were no longer leading in Europe in environmental policy, I refer to the year 1995, in which Austria, especially in the agricultural sector, developed a model for the EU negotiations, or again, with the OPUL programme and the resulting large density of organic farmers in Europe, a pioneer role also in the environmental field of agriculture. I would like to refer to the 180 000 companies participating in the OPUL programme. This is one of the largest environmental programmes in Austria in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This reform programme, ladies and gentlemen, gives us strength for our economic location, for the conservation and improvement of our environment, for the creation of jobs for our families and for our position in Europe. Only the election has enabled this reform programme, and this reform programme gives us offensive power for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18153	The next speaker is Mrs Klara Motter. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18177	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope the members of the environment forgive me for intrusion into their matter. But it is a matter of course following the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure, that the family is now coming up briefly. I think it is also very important that at this time, at 0 o'clock 40 minutes, we also allow the family room. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to take a brief look at the negotiations in the Committee on Structural Adjustments Law family. The family compensation fund was at the heart of the project. However, it was striking for me how the representatives of the government parties tried to defend the new common family policy. What in previous years, Mr Minister, you have to listen to this now, I have been listening to you in committee for a long time, and you do not know it, because you have only recently been a family minister; I have been working for a little longer in family policy – which, for ideological reasons, has led to contradictions in earlier years, has suddenly turned into a common line – I look at you, Mrs. President of the Family Committee – a line that the members of the government pretend to be swallowed by the members of the coalition parties without if and but. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens]] [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] Only the estrangement of the family compensation fund was still silently noted by the ÖVP delegates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr. Col., I am married, I have a man and a child and I am also a woman. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: All at once!]] To remember: Non-fund benefits are still the subsidies for the ÖBB through contributions for school leavers and the grants to pension funds, which have been transferred to pension funds since 1979 by 25 percent from the FLAF. This means that 150 million schillings are redistributed annually from the children to the pensioners. I give you, Mrs. Dr. Moser, the right thing about what you said when you were still a minister, namely - I can quote you - that the generation agreement is on top of it. – End of the quote. Maybe this statement was also a reason for your fall, your "chicken." To mention today that there is no generation conflict is irresponsible if one knows the cost explosion of pensions and does not even deal with them. Minister! I also note that you will be fighting vehemently for further exploitation of the family compensation fund no longer to take place in the future. Your own words – let me also quote you – are: "I will know with all my determination to defend the family compensation fund as a dedicated fund." – End of the quote. Now, my question to you, Mr Minister: How will you do that? – You know that your three predecessors have already failed on this subject. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Minister! They have co-negotiated the two budgets, namely for 1996 and 1997. You have already attached small amounts to the question of alienation of purpose, and I already claim today that you will do it again. And something else was written to you in the main book: Of beautiful words and empty promises our families have nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] - Even then. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to explain why I left the committee after the first hour of Question Time. On a legitimate question to and from the documents before me, I had to state clearly that the question answered by you, Mr Minister, was done in a way that we had no idea of what we were asking. However, we had an idea regarding the Mother-Child Pass examinations, but we had no idea that the present version of the Structural Adjustment Act was not the current one and that, in addition to the current amendments and Committee conclusions, there was also a Council of Ministers decision amending the drafts without the Liberals aware of them. We have, for the first time, the kindness of the responsible officials of the Ministry of Family Affairs, following the question of the Protocol No 1 on the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the 15th century. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! I have consciously noted this example, because this procedure was also significant in terms of how the negotiations on the savings package were conducted and that the individual Member had no opportunity at all to work seriously on this savings package, let alone discuss amendments only in the approach. Moreover, since this was not the case, at least we liberals had the consequences, because we no longer wanted to play puppets. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Another word to Mr Klima and to you, Minister Bartenstein, on the subject of budget security. I seriously wonder whether anyone can give confidence to this budget you have drawn up. An example of how your numbers can be understood as pocket playing rather than as a serious budget is the following: In the case of the FLAF's collapse, a deficit of 3 billion Schilling in 1996 has been forecast and one of 2.5 billion Schilling in 1997 if no changes are made. However, the budget now shows a surplus of around 4 billion schilling, taking into account the cuts in the family sector, although these cuts represent only a little less than 3 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance's press spokesperson has tried to justify the fact that a much more unfavourable prognosis would have resulted in a deficit of 2.5 billion schilling. However, it was later found that the forecast was too unfavourable and that the deficit was less than 2.3 billion schilling, rather than 2.5 billion schilling, only 0.2 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! What does "too unfavourable forecast" mean when one considers that one has estimated by 1 000 per cent?- Oh, my God! By exactly 1,000 percent! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not true!]] In view of such incredible estimates by the Ministries, it is certainly not possible to trust such a budget, not even to accept it, let alone agree to it. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the new loads caused by structural adjustment laws in the family sector. I still claim that the families and the single parents are being burdened the most. The savings package meets exactly those families that already have little or even are below the official poverty limit, as single-earners and single-parents are more burdened by 3 000 s to 8 000 s depending on income than families with two employees. Again, ladies and gentlemen: The financial burden is on the weak families, because 103,000 households with children live in our country below the poverty line, 80 000 of which are single-parent and multiple-child households suffering from the salary of a earner. In addition, families are subject to the reduction in family allowances introduced in 1995, the retention of schoolbooks or school-free travels and the reduction of the birth allowance of 15 000 S. The latter measure not only affects young families but also affects health care, which are not yet foreseeable. The reduction in leave – the time of leave, as it should actually be called right – affects women in particular, because it is proven that the fathers are not willing to enter the rest of the career because they are still the ministers and for many families this income is a necessity. The reduction in family allowances for students and students, the withdrawal of school leaves for students and students, will primarily affect parents. In addition, families are also asked to cash out by the general savings measures. I just remember the energy tax, because more people also have an extra consumption. The reduction or abolition of the general amount of the deposit and the new consideration of the special expenditure also apply to families. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would also like to say on this item on the agenda family that our main criticism refers to the lack of real structural measures. It will continue to be promoted in the future in accordance with the principle of foundry and reduced by lawn mower method. Also the sentence: "Social benefits are to be more orientated to income in the future" – this quote is from the 1994 Government Convention – has remained a vocabulary to this day, and I claim he remains. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals offer a model that takes part in social benefits in the family sector. We offer a serious basis for a comprehensive change with our family transfer model. However, we regret the so far superficial discussion or the general rejection of the government parties, but still hope for an objective discussion in the future. Because we liberals are convinced of our model and because our family transfer model also provides for a revision of the burden compensation, we do not agree with the Structural Adjustment Act to the Family Tax Compensation Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18271	I call Mr Rada. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18292	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, in an ORF interview, declared 1996 the year of the National Parks and found that the Donauen National Park would be built this year. I am in favour of this decision, although at this point I have already set out other, more critical tones, and I have not yet made a significant change in the acceptance of this national park in the population – at least north of the Danube. However, I would like to return to the Committee's deliberations, particularly with regard to the operating and construction costs of this national park, because if we are discussing budgetary consolidation on this day and also in the next few days, it seems quite legitimate to question the costs presented here and their reality. The construction costs are supposed to be between 27 and 43 million schilling. This seems to me to be somewhat too optimistic and too positive, because even the planners speak of 27 million schilling only if there is also a power plant in this national park, and that is exactly what is not only rejected by the majority in this House, but also by the citizens. [[Abg. Böhacker: I think so too!]] In addition, such a national park would have only a size of 2,700 hectares. However, when I recalculate the 1993 cost estimates on today, 1996, I think that a higher value will be necessary, even with regard to various national parks. However, the discrepancy in the current annual operating costs, including the cost of compensation for use, is even more evident. That's 50 to 60 million schilling. If you only make the compensation payments to the ÖBF, the Federal Forest, which would certainly accept lower compensation costs, that seems to me to be a little bit less because these alone expect at least 15 million schilling. If we start from the optimal solution and also want international recognition for this national park, it seems necessary to involve private land – of which there are at least 2 200 hectares in this area – and I doubt that the property owners concerned will bring their land on such favourable conditions, especially since there is a court decision regarding the nature reserve around Hardegg, in which the Retz District Court has established that there is already a single property owner in place to compensate for the use of 17 million schilling. If I now calculate its area and its compensation to the national park area in private property, then some 200 million schillings already result in compensation for use. I therefore believe that an overall yes to the National Park, which is still to become a reality this year, requires a very precise and renewed intensive cost review, with regard to the establishment, in particular with regard to the operation, but also with regard to the corresponding compensation for use. Finally, I would also like to ask you to accept the area of transport infrastructure. Although not inherently connected with the National Park, it must be noted that a number of additional infrastructure additional costs are still to be expected for transport-related development, especially in the North.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18330	I call Mrs Haller. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18351	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now going on with family again, and I agree on a point with my previous speaker, Mr Wurmitzer: I too would have preferred to have a discussion on family policy, which does not take place between midnight and dawn. [[Abg. Platter: For this you are the cause!]] But I find one particularly significant – yes, I like it – that it seems to be quite natural for the ÖVP as a self-proclaimed family party that the budget chapter, the family and the environment, should lead the family backwards both during the discussion in the Committee and during the discussion here in plenary. [[further calls to the ÖVP]] I think this is very remarkable. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is different with Mr and Mrs Österreicher, with whom the family stands very high in the course. They all know the surveys in this respect and know that, on average, the Austrians actually want more than two children. New survey data from Rainer Münz on behalf of the family ministry have shown that even 72 percent of respondents want to extend the karenz period to three years that 70 percent want to have the introduction of an education fee – 70 percent of the respondents! – and that the Austrians expect very much assistance from the national family policy in the implementation of their children's wishes. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How many?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How?]] There you have to ask Mr Rainer's coin; he has recorded it in a study. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Was that a question?]] Of course, otherwise I wouldn't have this data, Mrs. Mertel. Reality is another. We have a very accelerated birth decline in Austria, you know all, in 1994 minus 4.2 percent. Especially in the field of rural families, there has been a quarter of fewer young people in the last ten years. On the other hand, the proportion of permanent childless people in Austria has doubled in recent years. The reasons for this are certainly not monocausal and not only Austrian-related. But politics would be well advised – and this would be my family researcher – to observe this clearly distinguishing polarization between family couples and couples without children very closely and to counteract this development, as well as it is. The scenario in Austria goes another way. Against this background, over the last three years, the savings package 1 and 2 has been reduced by almost 20 percent, where this family burden compensation would be the instrument for resolving conflicts in this area. I have prepared for you, Minister Bartenstein, a funeral announcement at the end of Austrian family policy, and I would like you to put it up as a warning and as a reminder in your office. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Actionism!]] No cynicism when you look at the facts. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Actionism!]] Yeah, why not? In 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1997 the Austrian families had to give up to almost 14 billion schilling in total. And these are not only the cuts in the area of family aid, the birth allowance, the free movement of students, the retention and so on, but – and they do not speak of it – they have also taken place so-called zero son rounds in the field of promotions. The promotions have never been adapted. This matter, which makes a big whirlwind in other areas, with officials, with pensioners, is not mentioned by the families at all. We held it there, Minister. [[The speaker presented the announcement of mourning in the form of a panel to Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein, under the acclaim of the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The Haider is doing better!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is a level!]] And the bill is right. You can check it out. I did not question the exact figures several times in committee. And it is not even the reduction of child support for foreign children that you have paid abroad, because we will agree. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Family Minister! They have witnessed this development, the development of the fact that families are again asked to register more than childless. And you continue to see without harm how silent subsidies to the federal government, to countries, to the Austrian Federal Railways continue to flow unhindered. We don't think that's all right, and we won't agree to that. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: There is "Children's Absorbent Fraud" instead of -behaviors!]] That could be a mistake I didn't notice, Minister of State. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Just, that's not fraud, that's facts. It is particularly difficult, ladies and gentlemen, for the ÖVP to be patient, yes, to accept this fact – and my predecessor, Mother, has already pointed out, although she did not know it in committee anymore, because she was no longer there – that the Ministry of Finance has made a wrong case. The situation of the family compensation fund has simply been worsened by 3 billion schillings, and I really put it here: in order to have the justification to make cuts again in the family sector, to harm the families even more than before. And I agree with the colleague Mother: That's a huge scandal! [[Complementary with the Freeman and the Abg. Mother.]] For it would have been possible to continue to pay the previous grants out of the Fund without hindrance. One could have saved the student unrest and much more. I also do not think it is right that the ÖVP as a so-called family party agrees that the future donation of the fund on the revenue side will be gradually reduced by the year 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No, no, no, no!]] From 2.2 per cent to 1.9 per cent, you want to reduce this donation from shares of Köst and income tax. Therefore, no additional funds will be available for families in the future. You just don't want to. This was still missing in the first draft of the Structural Adjustment Act. In the second draft, this was so beautifully subjugated to us. I think it is very bad that the fund's donation will not depend on the needs of the family in the future, but on the budgetary situation in question. And that's perfectly stuck in there. But I find it as a white cynicism by the clubman of the ÖVP Khol – he is not in space at the moment, but I say it anyway – if he directly ridicules the representatives of the family demonstration who have spoken to him in the presence of the family bishop by thanking himself for the demonstration with cynicism, otherwise he would have had to believe that the families had not been taken away too much. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! We liberals will make sure that this comes to your mind among the people so that the Austrian families know what you have to keep from the ÖVP as a family party in the future. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We will therefore not agree to this structural adjustment law, especially because of the fact that there are no reforms. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's a surprise!]] There is nothing left to hear from the positive approaches to reforming the family compensation fund. There's nothing going on in the school book department. There's nothing going on in the free journeys towards admission to the transport associations. There has only been deterioration in the pension scheme. However, the Fund still has to pay 70 percent, and so on and so on. We will therefore call for a separate vote, because there are also points to which we will agree in the Structural Adjustment Act, for example the reduction of family support for foreign children who live abroad – that was always a free request – and because there are also provisions in this Structural Adjustment Act which are simply caused by the automatic payment of family allowances. One thing to conclude: This trend towards the reduction of the income of the family tax compensation fund, Mr. Federal Minister, and the gradual deterioration of performance makes me afraid. He scares me because he's going to go back in favour of the general budget and at the expense of the families. And that is why we will ultimately not agree. Finally, I will try to put forward two amendments from the liberals in the near future, which are about improving the income situation for students, who are indeed the sufferers of these "structural reforms" – under the lead marks. At least they should be allowed to earn more. [[Quoted print version removed]] And conform to that: [[Quoted print version removed]] I know, Mr Family Minister, that you said in committee that this would have been a wish of the ÖVP. They didn't get through. I would be really interested if the ÖVP would then agree to this liberal request or not.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18630	The two amendments tabled by Mrs Haller are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18654	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It goes back to the environment. However, I do not want to postpone the debate on fees in the morning hours. I will therefore be limited to a summary of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act in the near future. But this law is worth a few minutes. Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned this. Ladies and gentlemen! The Deposit Regulation was published last week. After more than two years of discussion, this will regulate the state of the art at landfills, among other things. The amendment to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act must compensate for distortions of competition between new landfills and inadequately equipped old landfills. We know the price dumping of the last months. Mr Langthaler, we know that the landfill operators are trying to achieve the price advantages of the cheap construction and operation costs. And should we discuss until the last cubic meters of these inferior landfills are filled? Is it not better to adopt a steering instrument, which may only be partial, but still does work? The law in force so far could not secure the necessary funds for old-age rehabilitation. Now, with the collection of 400 S surcharges for deposition into technically inferior landfills, with the collection of another 400 s in the absence of a landfill gas collection in house refuse, the filling of modern landfills will be safely promoted in the sense of the steering instrument. The planned staggering of contributions by landfill type brings clear classifications for the operator and for the control. Ad hoc cannot, however, be waived from taking the type of waste into account. The reduction to three types of waste, namely building waste mass, land exploration and remaining waste, is to be welcomed. The abandonment of the classification of "hazardous waste", Mrs Aumayr, corrected long and fruitless discussions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: If we didn't have Mrs. Aumayr!]] The execution will be significantly improved by transferring the collection to the main customs offices – the Minister has pointed out – and by the obligation of data transfer by the competent authorities. This will also make the suspension of the levy more difficult and will bring the expected revenue, about half a billion shillings a year. The exceptions to the waste concept are also more clearly defined. Even now, mountains of deaf rock, mud and liquid residues that occur during the extraction of raw materials and are returned to the original storage sites were not waste. This will now be extended by ash and slag, which will occur in the combustion and gasification of coal for the purpose of producing electrical energy and heat. The term "original deposit" should not be closely seen here, since the residues can be precisely classified according to their kind, but rarely according to their geological origin. "Original deposit" must therefore be understood as an art-related geological formation or, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs also noted in the review, as – I quote – "the parts of geological structures from which the extraction of mineral raw materials has taken place" – quotations. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This novel to the ALSAG is a correct step in the right direction, which will follow further steps, for example the Waste Management Act, the Water Law, the Mountain Law and the Chemical Law. We will make these steps constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18692	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18713	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. [[Call the SPÖ: Good morning!]] Good morning! Now you've become a little mint! They're slowing down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Good morning, Mr. Haigermoser, especially for you! Thank you! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] We're still talking, Mr. Haigermoser. [[Abg. Mentil: No problem! We have time!]] There's a special chapter for you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But go!]] At the beginning of today's debate, some Members of the Liberals have meant that there are only a few minutes available for each law, and indeed, if we look at how much time is available to us at this advanced time, we see it will probably not exceed this minute value. I still have 32 minutes of speaking time. I am not going to exploit them, Mr Haigermoser, but it is necessary, but to address some things even more precisely. Mr. Haigermoser! It is precisely because your colleague, Mrs Haller, said that she regrets the fact that the environment is in front of the family, that I would like to add: This cheap polemic does not help us at all, because you are probably informed about it, Mr Haigermoser: The German man is at great risk in his sperm as a result of environmental influences. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Of course, the reproductive capacity of the German family is greatly restricted by the toxicological and other influences he is permanently exposed to, while the man from Turkey, from the lowest Anatolia, where toxicology, the environmental influences can not so directly access the sperm, of course, can develop much more of his sperm. And these are your fears and concerns! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this reason, you have already been making it possible for Turkish and Yugoslav host workers to be removed from their family allowances for a little reduction in their development. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] For you are actually still representing this really very simple and primitive approach, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that the Austrians, the Turks – or what I know who – can be lured by increasing the family allowance by 100 S or 200 S or 300 S. Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly not the way to pursue family policy, no matter what aspect it looks like! That's right, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals... [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: You would do a favor to humanity if you ended the sperm debate!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a good advice from the Meischberger!]] Mr Meischberger has the right to give advice. He probably needs him more bitterly than anyone else, but he likes to give advice. The debate on sperm is obviously very fertilizing for you, Mr Meischberger. I hope you do. I really want to go on. I would like to point out how cheap it is. You do it, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about family policy here. They actually only have the German man and the German family in mind. You don't care about the host workers who have come in to the country that has been working here for decades! And that is the point where I also criticise the government that in the case of family aid for migrant workers here in this country, unless the children... [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger makes half-noise remarks under the hustle and bustle of the liberals surrounding him.]] Mr. Meischberger! You should then report to the floor! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] A sperm contribution from Mr Meischberger: That's what the plenary is waiting for. Obviously you can't keep up with this point at all! [[Continued hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have the laughs on your side! You're a single panoptic!]] Mr Haigermoser, this also applies to you: You are free to speak at any time. I think it is more important that we actually discuss a few items on the agenda. I mean, your family policy or whatever you think it is cheap is easy to see through. [[Abg. Böhacker: The oillinger has a sperm room!]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, she is evil against all those who have been working here in the country for decades. And that's not that funny anymore. This is no longer funny insofar as the government parties actually take account of your arguments at this sensitive point or of what you think about them. The family allowance for migrant workers, for children of migrant workers who do not live here, is deleted. And this is a bottomless community! Apart from that, Mr Minister – and I would really be interested – I ask you the question of how you believe you can resolve these contracts – and in this area we are bound by contracts – within this year. These are contracts, most of them based on reciprocity, which also affect our social security rights with these countries, with Turkey, with ex-Yugoslavia, and it is the question of how you will succeed and how you can actually resolve these contracts. I don't think it's that simple, and I also think it's wrong to go this way, because from the approach it actually carries the germ of racism. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] One can discuss everything in this area, but one should not go on the glue with this cheap policy of the liberals and pursue it only because one can save a few million or believe to be able to save. That is why I come to the essential area of family policy or policy in connection with the family compensation fund, namely the deletions you have made in the payment of benefit. If you think about it, It is a matter of looking at the value of these deletions, the few billions that can be saved by them, and it will be noted that, if we really have to make this money available for childcare, it would have to be replaced by childcare if we really had to provide care for the children of the 30,000 women, primarily women, it would have to spend much more than billions. You can still go here and celebrate in the media with your "Kindergarten Milliönchen", with these 600 million who sell you up and down as a great achievement, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP! These 600 million could in the best case – I have done this – secure 6 000 additional care places, finance 6 000 additional care places. But since you do not want to finance these care places, but only additional costs, and this is finally a bit complicated in the law, as you have obviously been somewhat difficult in the mutual vote, it will not be these 6,000. It would also be necessary to take structural measures. Structural measures are an extra step in the right direction. In other words, 6 000 additional places are actually much less. These are the "Kindergarten Milliönchen" that you can make available as a replacement for the karenz leave money! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and of the ÖVP! It's a little too cheap! Someone has to pay the token for this policy. And it's very easy to name who's supposed to pay this token: These are the women who have to take care of these duties, regardless of whether and how they deal with them. This is the consequence of your missed family policy that you are doing here! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Tosender applause with Mrs Motter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it will not be enough – Mrs Mertel, that is addressed to you – if one believes that sponsoring and similar measures in this area can actually do something for women and for families. It won't be enough to finance children's cribs with sponsoring. It will not be enough if one believes that, with the introduction of a new rubbello series, as Mrs Gehrer has proposed for the museums, one can also work in this area, or, as Mr Guggenberger repeatedly suggests at periodic intervals for the disabled, if one introduces an additional round in the letter lottery or in the lotto. This will not be enough to obtain these ideas, this attempt to somehow private sponsors, private funds in this area, so that the missing public funds can be offset. It must be the approach of a systematic policy! And if you, Mr Minister, continue to give up in the future for reducing the resources on the revenue side to 2000 without defending yourself, even though you have the support of the family associations or if you are committed to continuing this policy in the future, we will be very soon, although the family tax compensation fund is actually high white again in this or next year. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I really appeal to you: Put forward a concept for the perspective, for the future of this family tax compensation fund! Don't just let this policy of permanent espionage and dehydration of the family tax compensation fund continue in the interest of budget rehabilitation... [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: For the protocol: Minister Bartenstein is watching affected!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] He's still not calmed down. [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Don't let yourself go around the nose, Mr. Minister. It is important that family policy in this country is given a clear meaning. And you have the opportunity to do so precisely because the introduction of funds on and on its own would be so in the next few years that the family compensation fund, if you could also free it from non-funding benefits, could actually take a foothold. However, if you continue this policy of reducing resources on the revenue side, there will be no future for family policy and for the family compensation fund in that country. [[Abg. Murauer: Cancel your requests!]] What are your requests? [[Abg. Murauer: About the same sex family!]] What about the same sex family? – Something you know, but nothing exactly. [[Abg. Murauer: More than you!]] Thank you. It is my final word. You can explain how Mr Meischberger should be given the opportunity to comment on his favorite subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18976	Mr Brix has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e18997	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate on environmental policy, I have only noticed two areas very briefly in the opposition, which are also worth talking about. On the one hand, I was very irritated by colleague Aumayr. But please, maybe you don't know that yet and could not represent it. On the one hand, she presented here the committed FPÖ environmental politician. On the other hand, yesterday, in other words, the Vienna FPÖ voted against the National Park Act at the meeting of the Vienna State Government. It aims to prevent, together with the Lower Austrian freedomists, the establishment of this national park. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: In Lower Austria too!]] However, if the liberals occur here or also in the committee – I remember – they say they welcome the rapid creation of a national park in Vienna. [[Abg. Scheibner: On Friday, in connection with the toll, we will have enough opportunity to talk about the local politics in Vienna!]] Good. But now we are talking about the National Park, and as far as the National Park is concerned, I have always heard that the Freemans are unisono because they are glad that he is being built. In Lower Austria they voted against for a long time ago, and yesterday they voted against the National Park in Vienna. I think it is very unfortunate that we are here to measure by two measures. The second thing I noticed was that today, in the discussion, the esteemed colleague Langthaler spoke on the subject of PVC in connection with the fire disaster in Düsseldorf. I would ask the Federal Minister whether it would be possible for him from his ministry to check in conjunction with the German authorities whether the PVC really played such a major role, because then, in any case, we would like to talk about the PVC and PVC regulation. We are willing to discuss this, only if you really have facts should you discuss it. That is why I ask the Federal Minister to contact the Germans once again to consider how far the PVC played a role in this fire disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Very briefly on a subject that has touched me very much in winter and spring this year, on the subject of Lambbach. I myself was in Upper Austria several times this time, and I did not find any Au in Lambbach – I say again. The Au is not there. But I don't think the power plant makes any sense for economic reasons. [[Abg. Auer: Do you have other reasons?]] Yes, it is true, Mr Auer, that there is no Au, and it is really a pity that this project is a subject of environmental protection. But one should talk about the sensuality of energetic use, because I think there are quite different possibilities, such as the Wels garbage incinerator, which I have also visited and which is an outstanding demonstration project that produces 36 megawatt hours, compared to the future Lambach power plant, which can produce a maximum of 14 megawatt hours of energy. Such projects as the Wels garbage incinerator, the Spittelau garbage incinerator and the Flötzersteig waste incinerator are important cornerstones in the Austrian environmental policy, which I believe is a very useful environmental policy. [[Abg. Auer: This is really a good project!]] Good. It makes sense whether the plant is now in Wels or elsewhere to burn this waste, and to burn it free of pollution. [[Abg. Auer: This is not enforceable everywhere!]] In addition, Mr Federal Minister, if I take away from tomorrow's "press" - the Wednesday press - that the industrial association also criticizes that the collection of a tonne of plastic costs 20 000 S and the 900 000 tonnes that have been collected already cause costs of 3.1 billion schilling, that we should think again whether it would be more sensible not to separate plastic because it is difficult to separate it, but also to burn it because it would serve as an essential heating power and, secondly, we could save ourselves a lot of costs. Finally, I should like to say today that the coalition agreement with which the Federal Minister for the Environment has ensured 3 billion schilling, which serves new jobs through environmental technology, not only leads to progress in environmental technology but also to progress as more jobs are secured.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19088	The next speaker is Mr Koller. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19109	High house! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We do not see family policy as Mr Oellinger does. For us, the issue of family policy is far too serious to be so ridiculous. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The budget-accompanied laws were passed in the Husch-Pfusch procedure, at the expense of the families, and this is a missing family policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The removal of the birth grant will have a negative effect on the mother-child passport. He won't be that way anymore. But also the rural families are severely burdened. First: There has been a massive fall in prices due to EU accession. Secondly, The degressive price balance is completely gone in three years. Thirdly, Increase in social security contributions. Fourth: The removal of the birth grant. And for the fifth: Self-reservation for school books and school-free trips. Calculate what these additional loads mean for a child-rich family! [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Generalvikar Helmut Schüller makes it clear: Every third farmer is at risk of poverty. Many rural families are affected. According to Professor Schneider, the migration from agriculture was 5 percent. But the sad thing is that in the young farmers, in the case of the future yardlifters, the migration was twice as high, namely, 10 percent. Through the savings package and in particular by cuts in the family sector, the government contributes to the decline of the peasantry. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Job security and the preservation of our farms do not work through the ÖVP. Why does Minister Molterer hold back the study from the Institute of Mining Questions? Why is he hiding them? – Only the support of the small rural structure secures jobs. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The EU agricultural industry is not in the sense of consumers. This has shown us BSE insanity. The cattle farmers now have to take a huge price loss. The animals are inconvenient. Many rural families are affected. These structural adjustment laws are a step in the right direction of family policy. However, intact families are the leaders of our society. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Family support would therefore be a useful way for our country! Mr Bartenstein! You should be exemplary in your role as Minister for the Environment. However, when I went through the budget areas I had to find that you had three service vehicles: one from the environment, one electric vehicle and one from the Ministry of Family and Youth. [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is family friendly!]] In response to my question in committee, you said that the vehicle in the area of family and youth is being removed. However, you have continued to budget the fuel costs of 123,000 S and the maintenance costs of 43 000 S – that is 332,000 S in two years. Many families have to deal with far less! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also demonstrated by the Husch-Fuch-Budget. It clearly shows the attitude of this government: Only what is shown is left out – but only half, and that in the double pack. Because Bartenstein's Minister's colleague Scholten also has two service cars. He only removes the cars, but the costs remain. We liberals will continue to show malaise, malaise and pride, and massively re-controlle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why there will be no agreement from us that the Austrian families will continue to be taken into their pockets!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19202	Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19223	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm coming back to the environment. Ozone pollution in the industrialized countries is taking on health-induced forms and dimensions. I am now expressly talking about bottom-level ozone and not about the ozone hole as a global threat. The effects of soil ozone affect us all, because health and quality of life are, as I suppose, in the interests of all of us. Ozone is a stimulant gas entering the respiratory tract. From 1 hourly mean values at warning level, restrictions of lung function occur at the same time as physical stress. Even under the warning stage, such restrictions are possible with strong breathing. Ozone is also responsible for increasing allergic diseases. In higher concentration it is, as studies show, even carcinogenic. The main trigger for enhanced ozone formation is car transport, which accounts for 65 percent of nitrogen oxides. The Federal Government has been taking the first steps in this direction since 1986: the introduction of the catalyst for motor vehicles, the expansion of public transport and gas commuting lines at petrol stations. Much is certainly still worthy of improvement, for example, the restriction of fossil fuels by replacing biological fuels, the extension of the infrastructure for the shift from truck to rail while at the same time avoiding road expansion in sensitive regions, such as in the Alps, or the equipment of printing and painting plants with filter systems, the regular control and maintenance of small combustion plants, the forced use of district heating. Furthermore, promotions to reduce further combustion processes, such as the use of solar systems, photovoltaics, wind energy, thermal insulation and so on, would be indispensable. The first signs are already visible through an ecologisation of the control system. Ignorance and misunderstanding of some lobbies about the consequences of our prosperity society show how little human health is worth. Ladies and gentlemen! We must act now, with the help of effective measures. Only in this way can we protect the values of health and quality of life and, above all, also preserve the health and quality of life of our children. These values are priceless. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] You're gonna be surprised now, but I'm still out there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That doesn't surprise me at all!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: We are happy!]] - Fine. For the sake of simplicity, I will stay here and join in my remarks on the family sector, specifically on youth. Our youth is the future of Austria. Our task is to create the conditions for young people to shape this country. In the light of the hour ahead, I will be very brief despite the importance of this area. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No empty promises!]] I don't think anyone's against it. I certainly do not need to teach you what complex problems our young people have to deal with, which they have not grown too often. Youth promotion, which I will now speak of, supports interconnected organisations, associations and interest groups. This makes it an important part to make young people easier to deal with the many demands of our society – and often they are overloads. Rising drug use, multiple addiction problems, violence are serious signs that young people in their environment no longer feel comfortable and unintelligible. The social processes have a tendency to exclude those who do not manage to do so or who simply do not belong to it. This social aggressment and isolation strengthens psychosocial and mental problems. Youth promotions, which are mainly used in the non-school sector, give rise to opportunities for the integration of young people. The EU also supports these measures through youth exchange programmes and education programmes. One area, however, should also be taken into account in the Youth Promotion Programme: open youth work and youth care, i.e. youth groups that are not organised together. In my opinion – and I am speaking from experience as a long-term leader of an open youth centre and as a youth caretaker – the entire system of public youth support should be considered in order to enable new, effective forms of interconnected, open and project-related youth work. Only by responding to the needs of young people without raised index fingers and without moral sermons can a trusting, respectful relationship arise between adults and young people. The effective use of financial resources from youth support enables us to counter the threatening gap between the old and the young constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19294	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19331	I think you need a higher explanation. You don't get through that easily with one side. Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tegischer has done it very well and has her speech - I think it was the first; or the second - so well structured that at least it was clear which parts of the family, and which parts belong to the environment. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The second!]] On the other hand: Mr Koller, I listened very carefully to you. Until your last word, I did not know if you were talking about the environment or the family. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] An exercise matter; then I take it back. Ladies and gentlemen! The Coalition Parties stressed the importance of promoting the family in their coalition agreement. Unfortunately, as in many other areas, this is only a clear statement of intent. Political reality – you can always learn! – is a completely different one. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] I would like to make it clear here once again that the government parties in this area act as if they were family-friendly, at least in advance. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ah, the family is coming now!]] I say here that they have unfortunately lost any sense of social justice. The figures in the FLAF and the Family Compensation Act alone show to an appalling extent that the government parties are not capable of reforming and that this policy is characterised by the procurement and rehabilitation of funds. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The family minister alone has as many children as the entire Liberal Forum!]] This also brings him about as much family support, despite the best financial situation, as a single earner with child can earn a maximum of total. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What do you have against multiple children's families?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Prejudices!]] Unfortunately, through your policy, they belong to those who are clearly below the poverty line in Austria. I don't have anything against her. I regret them only because, unfortunately, the framework conditions in the area of childcare are not right by your policy. And I have to say right to Mrs Haller, who has made it clear that in Austria it is not even possible to realize the desire for children, because you have failed to create the necessary framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Freeman and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Heide Schmidt says she can't afford a child because she doesn't deserve enough!]] But now back to the points I want to focus on today as an educational speaker. The first point is the link between the family allowance and the school leave and the child drop-off amount with the school performance and thus with the school duration. This is probably one of those – I really want to say this here – many Husch-Puff actions that you probably need to correct very quickly. I am sorry that you did not listen to your colleagues, Niederwieser, who, in the run-up to this discussion, expressed a very clear view of this link between family aid and school life. He expressed very legitimate concerns. Unfortunately, the SPÖ has agreed to do so, especially in the school sector, and from my point of view, it is very unfortunate. There are very many unexplained questions in this area; Questions you will still face with some major problems. What's it like with school life at school change? How can this be done if, within three years, commercial students can repeat twice, commercial academics only once within five years without losing their family support? What it looks like with a change from the 6th. Class AHS, for example, in a trade academy, or should that not be possible without punishment in the future? And how can it be assessed when a student or a student comes into the first class of trade academy after eight years of schooling to give an example, and repeats this class? Is this still a matter of general schooling, which does not count, or is it not allowed to repeat this student or this student in the further field of schooling? – There will still be too many problems here. Your formulation, "unforeseen and inevitable events" would also create exceptions to this provision, is highly interpretable. It is my great concern that the social weaknesses in particular are not going to find the same opportunities for the less educated to object to legal objections. And so it seems to me pre-programmed that the social weaknesses are very disadvantaged by this regulation alone, in two ways. It is the social weaknesses that cannot afford to create perhaps some level of education with the help of after-sales lessons. And especially the remedial sector has become a new industry. Here we have to deal with sales of 1 billion schilling, and 50,000 repetitious students in the Austrian school system each year not only cause costs of around 5 billion schilling, but this is also highly linked to student suffering. These points alone, the follow-up boom and the repetitious quotas, are only a clear sign that something is wrong with our school system. We've just got a school system that's been selected far too early. We have a school system in which the quality of teaching must be questionable, especially if we define the term "teaching" with organizing and organizing learning processes and not by teaching and transferring the processing, learning as such into domestic work. Unfortunately, we also have a school system whose form of performance assessment opens up subjective influences straight to the door and gate. The new measures and new mechanisms that are now being discussed for ascending with a lack of sufficient effort are, in fact, a maximum of small attempts at change under the pressure of this linkage measure, family aid and school life and no reform in the real sense. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] In addition, parents are now being penalised financially, ultimately being punished for a non-functioning school system. I ask you: What do you suggest to the single parent with a child in school, who loses the family allowance, who loses school leave and who also loses the amount of child dropout? With a little more joy in reform and a little more willingness to genuine structural reform, you could definitely have achieved social confidence with our transfer model and found a rather significant saving potential. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The reformability of this family burden compensation law is particularly evident in the field of school book action. The Committee notes that a new model will be presented over the course of this year, does not calm me down. Schoolbook reforms have already been announced by former Minister Rauch-Kallat and former Minister Moser. There have already been initial drafts, which, as I believe, have included quite meaningful approaches. The Committee of Experts set up by the Minister of Education should have been working on new concepts since October 1995 and the Committee of Experts set up by Mrs Moser since May 1995. The result is: It's all the same with the old one. Unfortunately, the concept of autonomy in the school sector is only strained. We remain with this system of restraint, which, in our opinion, is a senseless, complex and inappropriate, for both economic and pedagogical reasons. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It's just the school book publishing. One continues to depend on the, as I believe, apprehension commissions. And it has not even been possible to extend the term "schoolbook" in the legislative text, as if there were no new technologies, as if we were living in no information society and as if it were not the task of the school to prepare the children accordingly for this society. If this government, and if the government parties perhaps want to subsidize school book publishing in its almost monopoly position, would like to subsidize book dealers, this may be politically desirable. Only then should we be clear and clear about this and not, as in many other areas, resort to the means of hidden cross-subsidisation. Ladies and gentlemen! We are renewing our demand here to transfer the resources for school books, for teaching aids in the wider sense to the autonomy of schools, because only then can effective and pedagogical use of these resources be ensured. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] One could also discuss the subject of free movement of students. This school-free trip has now been linked to the success of the school with the family allowance. However, the self-maintainment of parents remains independent of the distance and ultimately independent of the social need for a family. They will continue to subsidise the ÖBB from this family tax compensation fund. They will continue to support transport associations. I have, as you are likely, also received a letter from the parent association saying that, for example, an annual map for adults, to be used for twelve months, from Söll to Imst, to take a rural area from my home country, costs 9 500 S, but FLAF will be charged 20 500 S, exactly 20 592 S. It has already been calculated that some 120 million schilling could be saved for students using the regular adult rate in Tyrol alone. They did well to also give these resources to the autonomous administration of schools. Parents' associations have already agreed to take over. There would definitely be a more economic and targeted use there. Ladies and gentlemen! With your policy of foundry can and hidden subsidies, you have removed FLAF, and with your policy of reform inability and the shortcoming of the lawn mower method, you will continue to prevent social security and social fairness. Unfortunately, we must refuse to accept such a policy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19494	I call Mrs Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19516	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy is actually the same as in life: around the clock and embedded between waste recovery programs, packaging regulations and disposal. But fun side by side: Only an inflation-free, consistent consolidation policy will enable Austria to regain its freedom of design, and will enable us to enforce targets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is not alone: I can only remind you of France and Sweden, the Benelux countries and the 350 billion package of Germany. Austria, however, is on the best way – through the closure of all those who are willing to bear responsibility for the welfare of our state – to overcome this crisis. We have the lowest rate of inflation, we are among the richest countries, Austria must not be ashamed of its family policy, not of transfers and not of benefits in kind. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For all the socially weak – I am quite sure – there is help and support. What we need, above all, is to give our families the skills back, to make them strong again, to make them strong in their decision-making and in their design space. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Family policy is cross-sectional and therefore necessarily requires the continuation of three priorities: the economic offensive, the educational offensive and childcare. To be able to agree on family and work, to enable partnership and solidarity and to intensify it, to encourage women if they have acquired vocational training, to exercise it, but to grant them freedom of choice, which at least want to take care of their children temporarily, but also to encourage men to overcome this anxiety and to really get more into their families – all these things are about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All studies point out that a harmonious family life is still a top priority among our young people and that young people want 1.92 children, but we have 1.41 – whatever that means – so we have to take account of the fact that we seem to be heading towards these three priority areas: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Economic offensive to eliminate structural injustices to the family, helping educational offensive. We have to work on appropriate ways of continuing training, at all, on training opportunities after the Karenz period, but from the outset to put education above everything. A person who has several possibilities will not depend as much on a labour market service – in the broadest sense – as someone who is only very narrow in his educational path. It is already late, but allow me to compare family policy a little with a heath landscape, in which it can also flourish very well. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With what landscape, please?]] With a heath landscape. There are safe paths, safe paths that are there: Transfer payments, valuable studies on the mother-child passport – however, I admit that, as with the toll question, there must be some monitoring here – but also material services such as schoolbook and school-free travel. There you are fully involved in creating really new structures. I should just like to remind you in the schoolbook that it is now very likely to be saved. The numerous accusations that have become loud here are simply and simply wrong. The schools themselves save collectively and thereby reduce the self-retaining of the parents. This has already reduced the amount for parents. And if the class board informs in good time and distributes the schoolbook list for the new school year in good time, then there is an individual saving again. It is therefore very possible, for example, that only more than 28.50 S can be paid in an upper-level range of 237 S of the last year – which showed clear indications. I would therefore call on everyone to take a closer look at these possibilities and perhaps to study them more closely. However, the cost of school-free travel explodes, and satisfaction decreases. And there again, it is said to give the families back the skills and make them operational. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To support families politically means, therefore, to strengthen them again, to recognise the benefits provided in families, not to promote and to support them socially, but to make social policy. It's about the sociotope in the sensitive human area.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19593	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19615	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This budget debate has expired just as we have been guided and avanized by the printing media some time ago: We have a beautiful backdrop here, and we MEPs are the statisticalists in it, in the form of 183 proposed people's representatives, who, as legislators, can only accept more – partly time-reading, partly not even decently standing up – which has long been constructed, determined and blessed in the wake of the scenes. [[Abg. Steibl: Who asked for the questionings?]] We're being put here as puppets and downgraded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this government does not even make this secret or somehow back, but it even admits it to all the public. They even allow us to be guided by the media: This package is not tied up, this package is not discussed at all, changes are not accepted, proposals from the opposition parties are not even considered. This procedure, which really degradates our honourable Members – this has shown today – into a voting machinery, you even play in the public, building on the fact that the Austrians do not at all know in what an immense way parliamentaryism is going in Austria. What has become of the statements of your party chairman Dr. Schüssel, who was sent over the APA at the end of February, the strengthening of the personality element in the National Council election would also have to be reflected in the practical policy? – He said that at the end of February. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: It is your partyobmann who is working against parliamentarianism!]] [[Abg. Grabner: That's not true!]] Listen to what he said! He said that it was necessary not only to give the members of the opposition, but also to the representatives of the coalition parties a greater margin of action – that is, directly ridiculous after today – and he is involved, regardless of the party membership, in order to be able to make a political contribution to the tremendously important feeling. What about your party keeper's statements? Has that been forgotten? Or was that a subsequent election promise? – In any case, these weeks of your Obsessor’s statements, Mr Bartenstein, were absolutely out of sight. Federal Minister! You have now also taken over the agendas of the Ministry of Family Affairs, and I am actually aware that this government will take place every time that structural measures have long been in place – just like in the family resort. There you switch from one minister to another. One has just begun, the other has not yet been implemented. Last year, for example, in this same committee, in the Committee on Family Affairs, we were also told about the budget and the savings package number one on the school book action, and 10 per cent of the school books have to be introduced. The cost of the school books explodes, something has to happen, a "schoolbook action" has to be renewed. But, of course, as well as this year, time was too short, and so you first introduced a 10 percent self-retainer, which we already said last year, that this 10 percent self-retainer is likely to end up in administrative costs. And the practice has shown that it was the same. I do not want to remember the chaos of school end and school beginning this year, because the previous year saw scenes that the woman ministers probably did not even dream of when she made this proposal of 10 per cent self-retaining. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You're misanalysing this! You're just talking about something!]] It is said that a working group was set up for this school year, which should develop a "renewal of schoolbook action" in which savings can be made without burdening the families. But nothing happened! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] It just changed the minister – otherwise everything stayed with the old one. This 10 percent self-esteem is now demonstrated, and whether it is promised or not, the 10 percent self-retaining – similar to the case with the KRAZAF, who has survived for 17 years – will probably go into the history of eternity in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All the proposals that come there, from school books, which are, as it were, inherited from one generation to another, are nonsensical, because, first, the book publishing is not involved here, and secondly, these disposable books, which are now rather cheap in their creation, have to be made much more expensive because they have to last four, five, six years. But please look at a schoolbook after a year. You can really throw that away, so cheap it is made. To want to continue to inherit books produced at the same price four or five years in the family, please, that's really dreaming, that's a dream dancing or simply the untruth, just an advance. They do not want to accept the facts. So we have forgotten to return the school book action, as some of us have suggested, to school autonomy. Every school knows exactly what schoolbook she wants and what criteria the teachers want to teach. But you just ignored that. Of course, it is much easier to burden parents with 10 percent than to really think about how to save without burdening families. Even the savings package number one brought great strains. We all remember: Children's allowances were shortened, schoolbook self-reservation was introduced at the time, and school-free travels included a 10 per cent self-retaining of up to 300 s, home travel allowances for boarding school students – that is already forgotten and has not been mentioned at all today, so to speak, in general, families have had to bear this even last year – the family allowance for unemployment benefit is not paid if the partner earns more than 14 000 S, and so on and so on. That was, as I said, last year, and now the crown is added to the whole. It is not enough to ensure that, by means of savings measures in other areas, the burden also affects families – for example, the introduction of the energy tax – but it burdens families alike or much more than anyone else, because a family needs electricity, a family needs heating; thus housing becomes expensive, and the budget of the families is getting smaller and smaller – then, in return, it is also punished those people, ladies and gentlemen, who take care of themselves. They are told that you can deposit the supplementary health insurance insurance for tax purposes. Years ago, it was 100 percent, then it was reduced to 50 percent and now, at once, you can take retroactive action even in existing contracts and say: Well, you've finished it, but unfortunately you can only drop it more than 25 percent. [[Abg. Swimmling: Only at higher incomes!]] It doesn't matter what income it is. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who has a high income?]] That's what everyone does. If I conclude a contract today, I wonder if I can afford it or not. I trust that my income will remain as it was. But it can't be that you say in retrospect: Dear people, you have signed contracts that you can only cancel at the end of the year, but for that one year you can only write off 25 percent of them. That's it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: She's talking and talking! You can't listen at all!]] That is to say, this federal government is preventive. It also offers no possibility of tax relief or tax depreciation in case of housing renovation. But, please, who's rehabilitating the living room? - I don't think it's a single. It is the families that are rehabilitating their living rooms, and that has been tax deductible so far. That was also deleted. As I said, all these are loads that affect families too. [[Abg. Kiss: Mrs. Colleague! Take a break!]] If you can't listen so fast, you'll be asleep, maybe it'll work, maybe you'll be rested and can follow me again, my colleague. Well, is that a suggestion? Wonderful! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Where does the shark sleep?]] Minister! They have not introduced structural reforms, such as the family division that we demand, i.e. the taxation of families, divided by family members with a corresponding tax allowance at the level of the minimum of existence for children. Even our National Council for Family in Upper Austria – which is a Socialist Councillor – gave a press conference in which he said the next tax reform will be and must come by the turn of the millennium, because at the latest then we will have to eliminate the disadvantage of the single earners and introduce tax-free minorities for children. Please, how long do you want to wait? Do you want to starve the families for four or six years? - I don't understand. Although your own government colleagues already point out that there is a man’s need, there has been no thought and no jump over this shadow. [[Abg. Eder: Need for the woman!]] The same is true of the 600 million schilling of these "Kindergarten Billions", which you would like to celebrate and book for yourself as a negotiating result, Minister. For years we have been promised by the Ministry of Finance "the Kindergarten billion", and this has been postponed from one year to the next. In my opinion, however, these 600 million schillings for the family resort are not achieved, because even the Minister of Finance, after these 600 million schillings were released, gave an interview in the ORF, in which he said that he would loosen this 600 million schillings for the development of childcare facilities – but no word about the day mother project, no word about the really required measures! The women want to be mother-in-law, even for smaller children. They want these projects to be really promoted, and not just an alibi action so that they can be shown there and there. All of this has not happened and will probably not happen in the future. [[Calls and calls between the political groups.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of ÖVP) You're all going to cover!]] I think that this 600 million schilling for childcare facilities – I would like them to be spent on a day mother project – is just a drop on a hot stone that the mothers will not even reach. For if one knows that a study says that creating additional childcare facilities in Austria would cost 42 billion schilling if they really meet the needs of all children whose mothers want to give their children in care facilities after a year and a half of a year, then these 600 million schillings are really not even butter bread. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (da Abg. Mrs Madl, look at the Böhacker!]] The removal of the birth grant will also make the birth rate worse in Austria, because young families – yes, it is my name – cannot afford to have children in times of extensive stress. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Madl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Look at the Böhacker!]] This has been addressed a few times today. I do not want to mention the effects of this measure on the generation contract and on the laborious early recognition of mother and child birth damage. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[Abg. Tombner: Show yourselves that it is already gone!]] High house! The family – which has already been said today – is the germ cell of the state and must not be discriminated against taxly and economically. We all have the obligation to protect and promote families – and not how this government is doing to ruin financially.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19924	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e19946	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words from the perspective of the family minister on the subject of family. I can therefore take a short look at the fact that my predecessor, Mrs Sonja Moser, in particular, has presented and presented in detail the guidelines of the very important family policy of the Federal Government and I can therefore save further explanations – also for reasons of time. But I do not want to spare myself or you, to point out one thing, which reads as follows: In spite of all the regrets we have here and about some necessary reduction measure, such as the withdrawal of birth aid or also the measures in the student field – I think these measures are acceptable in the overall context, I say very clearly – we would like to recall what has been provided for additional family benefits since 1992. This includes the third age season, ladies and gentlemen, the total amount of children's leave. This is a very essential step towards a minimum of tax-free existence, which is the first half of the path. I too am in favour, like my colleague from Upper Austria, Hiesl, who is a member of the ÖVP, that it must be a long-distance goal if it is to have and get the minimum tax-free existence again financially. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, apprenticeships and other things are very important measures that have been taken in the last three years. If we have to take something back now, we still have a level that is at the forefront of the state's financial transfers to the families in Europe. And that is very important to be held here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because you, Mrs Madl, have spoken of the 600 million – Mr Öllinger, spoke of "milliönchen", and I think that this is an inadmissible destruction of a very significant amount – and of the fact that Mr Finanzminister recently announced that he would only like to finance childcare facilities in the sense of buildings – I can tell you – this is a small amount that we could still be reached, that we have left this point again, and that at the margins of the Council of Ministers we have very much agreed to promote childcare facilities as a whole, i.e. the training of mother-in-laws, also the longer opening time of kindergartens and the like. We are promoting what always serves the well-being of children and with which 600 million Schilling can be used to finance the impulse, which will then be carried on by the countries and communities in the following years. A very, very essential aspect of family policy, which could be realized essentially in the morning. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been pointed out several times and correctly that the removal of the birth grant naturally raises a problem with regard to the examination discipline towards the mother-child passport. We still have a few months left to consider measures. We will come to a solution here together. It is important to maintain the high level of examination within the framework of the mother-child passport of well over 90 percent, almost 100 percent, in Austria. That's what I'm calling myself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Koller! Some things are not allowed to stand in space, so: Leave that with the three vans! You have already asked me to do so in committee, and I have given you an answer. I told you at the time: What's the matter? Mrs Moser's service car will probably still be there, because formally the family resort is still an independent place today. That is why it could also be that Minister Scholten's two ministerial vehicles are on the vehicle's agenda, because the two ministries also have to merge into one. [[Abg. Koller: Three service vehicles, that's immense! Three vans!]] And the electric vehicle, which has not been driven since the times of the Minister Flemming, should at least make you less trouble. [[Abg. Leikam: Let's give it to the Koller!]] I explained this in detail to you. You could have looked at this, too, because of the amendments your group has made. I'm sorry you had to end your virgin speech with such an unbelievable polemic. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No polemics from the government bank against a Member!]] And since we are already at polemics – and I will come back to the part of Mrs Haller – let me just say something to Mrs Tegischer in order to address the youth policy here as well: I fully agree with you – and I assume that we rarely meet here in a cross-group way – that the unfortunately God is indeed a problem for young people in Austria, which needs to be combated, and that violence, but, of course, violence among young people, is a matter for me. Since sexual abuse - especially in children and not only in Austria - is an ever-increasing problem, I do not want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am in favour of an extension of the § 207 Criminal Code to the sexual abuse of minors also for crimes committed abroad. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because here "blue" actionism – and that is not right for me politically – has manifested itself with a black tray, a few remarks. I mean, Mrs Haller, it is not possible to mourn "for the end of family policy" as you wrote, but rather "for Austrian family policy". By the way: The word budget comes with a "theodor" and does not need a second "theodor". Thirdly, I would also like to say that you, Mrs Haller, if you fully address the reduction in the karenz period with 3.5 billion schilling as a deficit in family policy, so that one of your guidelines contradicts and mine, because I do not believe that the karenz period and therefore the karenz money are exclusively or only 70 percent a family policy achievement. So I'd really ask you to leave this with the Taferls. A few months ago, the Taferl fell into a TV discussion with our Wolfgang Schüssel. And you haven't really awarded the Taferl today either.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20055	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20076	Mr President. High house! Today, we face the difficult task of organizing the federal budget so that the security of a stable state is given to us and our children and that remains so for the future. Our main concern must be to make meaningful and lasting savings and to distribute the burden as fair as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We in Austria still have a very high level compared to other countries, despite the painful savings that I admit to be made in the family sector, and the necessary measures are to ensure that we can hold this level for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We, the ÖVP with Wolfgang Schüssel, confess to saving now to secure the future. In the area of family support, the Free School Book Action is an action in which one should really change the structure. All those who have children know how many books stand up in the course of their children's training. I personally have high stacks on my attic, because my five children have also gone through all schools. This is really wasting! [[Abg. Swimmling: But they can write "budget" right!]] Perhaps we should go a whole new way and let every school – that has already been addressed today; I would do so – provide a certain sum of teaching material and books and leave it to the teacher and the parent representation to decide together and autonomously on the use. In the area of family policy, we have many positive institutions that we can maintain despite the necessary savings, such as the leave period with a job guarantee – in this respect we are still leading among most countries around us –, the age season for family allowances, apprenticeships and school leave trips and the billing of child rearing periods on the pension, where I think the latter is particularly important, because it for the first time evaluates and recognises child rearing as a service for society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is also important that it has succeeded in increasing the special expenditure framework by 20 000 s for families of three and multiple children. If we really want to evaluate the family benefits of the multi-child family more fairly, we have to go in the direction of a minimum of tax-free living per family member. In fact, it is a big difference whether two working parents have a child, i.e. two incomes for three persons, or whether four children, where the mother naturally has to stay at home, divide an income into six persons. This really results in the impoverishment of larger families. 600 million schillings were provided for childcare. One might think here for the future to take a different approach, which, according to Schattovits study, would be the fairest distribution of the supply, namely the care check. Mrs Haller has already talked about this several times. This would, in fact, sum up all the benefits of the public service, provide a certain amount per child, and leave it to the powerful parents themselves, as they want to regulate this care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This would create a variety of private initiatives that make sense to offer. But those mothers who prefer to care for their children themselves – which, according to the survey, is still the larger part – could carry out this task themselves without any disadvantage. However, as long as we do not have such a solution, especially the mother-in-law model should be promoted, because this is still the most family-like. My wish would be for many mothers to realize that if there is a possibility, they will give their children the best if they care for them themselves at least during the first years. For the whole life, children are laid the ground floor for whether they can feel at home and secure. Children need support 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. The co-responsibility of the fathers for the education of children must also be stressed again and again, for fathers have equal responsibility for the success of their children's lives. And they should know that again! A major problem that is becoming increasingly public is violence in the family. We can at least provide some protection against violence by improving security police, criminal and social labour law measures. I don't understand the often low level of punishment for these crimes. Above all, we must strengthen the awareness that it is the worst crime to commit defenseless children, and that everyone must do his best to protect children. Every child is unique, it is unmistakable, it is valuable, and it is entrusted to the parents of God. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger has said here that it will cause women to have to take care of them again. What does that mean? – Child care is joy, is fulfillment for me. I raised five children, and it was the most beautiful time in my life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Women today have a big lobby. I don't know any politicians who would dare to question women's rights, but children need us parents as their lobby.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20155	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20176	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really do not want to miss out on my own constitution and performance and, following the example of my previous speakers, to speak with the same endurance and intensity at half past three o'clock in the morning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Bravo!]] So I won't cut my speech in any way and don't hold back – I have some documents here – even though that almost looks like a dangerous threat. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! "Whoever has debt is not free." – This was explained by the Prime Minister of Sweden, Göran Persson, on the occasion of the agreement on a second package of savings, on a programme of savings, which was also signed in Sweden. And to the critics of this package he addressed other words, namely: "Healthy state finances are the prerequisite for preserving well-being." And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, Austria's social democrats are also going to be ours. If a picture of the horror is drawn here by speakers, I cannot join in, but I add quickly – and I have already done so in all the other speeches – that no family politician and no family politician can be satisfied with any reduction measures to the extent that there is no one among them who does not express any concern, but we all know that it must be. If Mrs Motter says we've swallowed it without If and But, I also have to disagree with this. Mrs Haller, who has not been in the room since her orthographic "performances", I would just like to say one thing: The decline in birth does not accelerate, but the birth figures have remained constant since 1985, even during the period 1988 to 1994, in the so-called social-politically particularly good years. They are – I do not know how such a number can be achieved, but in the statistics it is so stated, Mr President Vergestnitsch – 1.45 to 1.5 children per year per woman. Last but not least since 1985! I am sorry that a party such as the freedom of movement, which others always assign to homework, sometimes even wants to carry out criminal duties, has come to a Taferl class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mrs Madl thinks that we are being downgraded to a voting machinery, then I must say that the chairman of this party is not even a part of the vote, because he has left his "machinery" behind and has gone on. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want to be funny again today?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Today you want to be particularly funny again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the family compensation fund has been in deficits in recent years... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Finally leave out our Wad’ln! Why are you biting in our Wad’ln?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are now hearing is the alternating cloister of the Klubobmann deputy and Mr Haigermoser. I'm going to keep quiet every time, so that you can get your ears on it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's very funny again!]] Depending on what one understands by humor. We know that over the last few years, the family compensation fund has accumulated deficits of a total of 10 billion schillings, which have to be covered by general budget resources, Mr Klubobmann Khol. In recent years, the Social Democrats have pointed out this precarious situation and called for structural reforms. Now it is about achieving a balanced balance sheet of the Fund in order to finally enable repayments of liabilities – through the structural packages 1995 and 1996. Our stated objective is to continue to ensure the core achievements of family policy at a high level by means of the necessary but unloved adaptation steps. The future support system must continue to be eligible for funding, and we must have a margin for action. Finally, consolidation measures are not only in the interests of overall economic development, but also in the interests of the maintenance of the social state and in the interests of the families, because high deficits are only quite at the expense of the families. Key benefits could be preserved: from the age stage of the family allowance with a commitment to school and study success to the multi-children's season in tax deductions. We have also set up a special expenditure framework of 20 000 S for the multi-child families. In my group's view, essential benefits – and benefits in kind, ladies and gentlemen – are a non-thinking element of family support, i.e. benefits such as school book action, student and apprentice free rides remain untouched, and where cancellations have to be made... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mr President, I think there is a considerable unrest and pleasure, but I am somewhat disturbed by my speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20282	Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the debate is still continuing is due to you, but I would ask the speaker to pay at least the necessary attention. [[towards the freedom of movement]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20318	However, where removals had to be made, Mr Haigermoser, there are at the same time provisions for social compensation... [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you have against me? I've been listening.]] I know, and your tie is really nice today, I like it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm hanging on your lips!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Thank you. I've been waiting for you to tell me for years. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was clearly sexistic now!]] That's nothing sexistic, that was a clear compliment, Mr. Klubobmann! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, that was clearly sexistic!]] In the case of social compensation, after the removal of the birth aid for social weak, there is the possibility for toddlers and grant recipients as a substitute for the free movement of students to take advantage of a cost of travel. [[Intervocational calls]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] My Carinthian covers with your Vorarlbergian: By the way, you have a really great hairstyle, really! Where one of them has gotten to feel the lawn mower You're a nocturnal hairtoll, really! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you have anything else to say?]] No, since you've admired my ferry shirt, I know I must also admire you! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you want to see my underwear?]] No, no! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But that would be a possibility!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, that would be a possibility!]] I would particularly like to stress that a long-term concern of SPÖ women and SPÖ family politicians has been met and that 600 million schilling has been achieved for the better agreement between family and work to establish and promote childcare facilities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're talking a lot too long!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Maybe you can give me your speech afterwards so I can read everything!]] I also believe that important and positive points for the family sector are enshrined in the Federal proposal. For example, the amounts are unchanged for the family advisory services. There has been an increase in funds by around 20 million schilling in the maintenance advances. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many millions?]] 20! Family hard work for families in need is provided at an unaltered level. . I believe that these are important points, because especially those families that need the most urgent assistance to society will continue to be supported. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Money, benefits, tax measures and infrastructure, such as childcare facilities, are very likely to be key factors in making the decision to create a family easier. But equally necessary and important are certain additional conditions that affect the life of a family in a modern industrial society. And such important approaches are included in the Coalition Convention: providing qualified part-time jobs and family-friendly flexibilisation of working time with smooth-time models, part-time employment and annual working-time models. However, these include, of course, promotion measures for women who wish to re-enter their jobs after childcare, as well as further training within occupational training. One word for the new Karenztime regime, often quoted: Even after the new regulation, Austria will continue to have a high to highest standard. The EU recently set a minimum standard of three months parental leave. Member States may grant parental leave as full or part-time leave or part-time leave until the eighth birthday. It can also be determined, however, that from important business-related...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20518	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, that does not apply to you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She's just boring!]] I may find the panel arousing, but I would ask you to keep this hustle and bustle a little limited. [[Several representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman study the previously by Mrs Abg. Table used by Haller]] [[Abg. Kiss: But Mr President, it must also be allowed to discuss certain things.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps in the couloirs, there is sometimes more joy there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There are three spelling errors in there!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20583	However, it may also be decided that parental leave should be suspended for important business reasons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Even this board is even more interesting than this speech!]] That is a representative of a family party who has no idea of family, but is constantly making calls! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't worry about my calls!]] There are also special rules for small and medium-sized enterprises. At present, a serious problem is often discussed under the heading "risk of poverty in prosperity", with current studies showing that this danger is the most frequent single-parent, but also low-income, families of children. The number of children is only in connection... – until I'm done, Mr. Haigermoser! – with low primary income, an indicator of risk of poverty. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How long does it last?]] Some EU countries, namely Denmark, France, Ireland and England, have grants for single-parents. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Gibraltar!]] Not Gibraltar, you're misinformed. I say yes: They don't understand anything about family policy. In the case of single parents, there is still a lack of childcare facilities as a double burden and the still existing differences in income for women. We also know, however, that the level of income alone does not allow conclusions as to whether a family is vulnerable or not. On the question of poverty, I share the view of Mr Bartenstein, the Minister of Family, who has just recently expressed himself in the ORF. This issue is also taken very seriously by us. In the short term, solutions need to be sought. There is a strong demand for family policy. Finally, I would like to say: I believe that the consolidation programme and the budgets for 1996 and 1997 are a prerequisite and, at the same time, start-up for further effective structural measures in the interests of maintaining our social system and in the interests of families.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20663	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20692	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although it is 3:00 a.m., I would like to wish the new Minister of the Family all the best for his great task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Kampichler, get the pult up a bit!]] He has now taken over two major areas of responsibility, although everyone would be sufficient for himself and provide enough work, but he has already proved to us in the first days of his term that he is very well able to cope with this work potential. He has done his job well, although the two areas have different contents. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Does the bitzings know?]] But you have one thing in common: The topics of environment and family are real topics for the future, are important for the survival of humanity. In both areas, errors, if at all, can only be repaired with great financial effort. In both areas, it is urgent that we come from repair to prevention. Our problem, ladies and gentlemen, is at present just one: We have to spend relatively high costs on repairs, but at the same time we have to make changes for the future – all under the great heading "renewal of the state budget". My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The restructuring of the state budget is also very, very essential and important for families, because we cannot leave the next generation of debt mountains that it cannot handle. Family policy is policy for the next generation, and it is our task to secure the right foundations for families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would recommend Mrs Madl, who has painted so black here – she has meant that these rules are the financial ruin for the families – to talk to Mr Haller. It has recently been in Brussels and has heard from other family organisations what measures there are in the rest of Europe. [[Abg. Kiss: Hopefully many listen to them!]] Austria is very big there, and we always drive home with great pride. I think this will be confirmed by Mrs Haller. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Does the bitzings know?]] In the meantime, too, Mr Klubobmann! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In times of recession, families are also a particularly important factor for the economy. Families need almost the entire budget available to them in order to be able to cover the things of daily need. In other words, money spent by families will immediately become economically effective in us, and a part of it will return to the Minister of Finance in the form of taxes. Any schilling that we leave to families in the form of a fair tax system or fair family support has a positive effect on the economy and state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means, ladies and gentlemen, but also that every schilling we abstain from the families has a very negative effect on the economy. It must therefore also be in the interest of the Minister of Finance to leave the necessary budget resources to families, especially to multi-child families, and not to make savings. In addition – and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, we agree here – every investment in families is the best investment in our own future. You know: The children of today secure the pensions of tomorrow. We must act in politics above all for those who choose children today, for they also ensure the future of those who – for whatever reason – do not choose children. In times when the employment potential is reduced, it must also be possible to provide additional spaces for educational activities. That is, if the job potential is lower, it would be only right and cheap to leave this new time potential, which is available primarily to those who have to do important educational work. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we are engaged in family policy and that we are providing parents with the necessary equipment. These parents, with the good education of their children, ensure that positive-minded young people grow up in our society and these also become motivating factors for the economy. I know, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, our family minister agrees with us on this issue. We will support it by the family organisations, because it is a lot: It's about our own future, and it's about the future of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20794	The next item is Mrs Bures' speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20823	Mr President. Federal Minister! In advance, thanks to my colleague, Mr Mertel, who has always taken advantage of the opportunity to take a very comprehensive approach to what the position of family policy in social democracy looks like. However, I think it is necessary, in the course of today's discussion, to point out that the need for consolidation as a parliamentarian does not, of course, prevent us from taking social policy measures; some have already been mentioned today. The question of children's right to protection against sexual abuse – not only in Austria, but also abroad – is not directly related to budget figures, nor is it quite specific measures against violence in the family that are not automatically budgeted. Two points to the discussion which has been held here. One was rightly discussed, namely the regulation of leave. I think it is not enough to say that the parents or mothers really want to be three or four years, because the main problem is to find a return to the profession and, rather, it is necessary to offer solutions in the area of re-entry aid, in the area of framework conditions, such as child care. For this reason, 600 million schillings are not enough, but I believe that they are at least an insignificant contribution to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is necessary to discuss a tax-free minimum of living here, but I would point out that this would be especially beneficial for those families who have higher incomes. Of course, those low-income families, who either do not provide a very low tax benefit, do not benefit to the same extent as those who have higher incomes. Furthermore, such measures – namely a departure from individual taxation – would only lead to even more push women out of work and to reduce family and child labour without asking women whether they would like to do so at all. Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein! I have not been in this house for so long, but I welcome you and wish you all the best for your work. They're the fifth Minister of Family. In principle, women rather have the attribute of persistence, but I wish you – in order to finally express a wish – that you use more persistence and more endurance than your predecessors have done for the interests of the families. For me, this means, above all, working for the compatibility of family and profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20869	Mr Ellwall. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20890	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! "The institution family must be protected, and appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that its services are recognised for society." – This sentence is from a statement made by the Commission of the European Union in 1994. This finding is also of particular importance in Austria. The expenditure from the 1996 budget for the family sector is around 59 billion schilling and has almost doubled in the last decade. Our time is subject to a rapid change of values, so that the question of the family's tasks and meaning is necessarily the basis of our social system. In my opinion, the family is still a bearing pillar of our society. It is the smallest cell in the stage construction of the human community, which today, as in the future, will or will perform essential functions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also proves the result of a survey conducted by the Institute for Demoscopy of the Academy of Sciences, according to which 82 percent of Austrians consider the institution family indispensable and only 13 percent obsolete. In Austria, about 100,000 families currently live on or below the poverty line, including 250 000 children. This is why I am particularly concerned with improving, through targeted family policies, the provision of child care facilities, such as day-care facilities, as well as the development of qualified part-time work, the provision of flexible working hours, re-entry assistance for women in the profession et cetera, in order to facilitate the compatibility of family and work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to promote these measures, the Federal Government has made 600 million schilling available in the 1996 budget. The Federal States will also use the corresponding amounts to implement these projects. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The tax situation in multi-child families of single-earners is unsatisfying. Multipurpose families are not as taxable as single adults or families without children. The introduction of a minimum of existence for children like that of an adult would lead to more fair fiscal treatment for families and should be one of our family policy goals in the medium term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Despite the many family policies of the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities – for example, Austria is at the top of Europe in direct transfers, with 14.2 percent of the average gross earnings of an industrial worker – Austria is currently in fourth place in the birth statistics of the world. We are currently unable to reproduce ourselves from our own families, so to speak, so that we depend on immigration. To change this requires great effort, but above all increasing the importance and reputation of children's families in our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the public hand alone will not be able to guarantee a family- and child-friendly society. The Community's active participation as well as that of the individual is necessary. Especially in the light of changing economic policy conditions in our state, it seems all the more important and necessary to make a special effort to ensure the existence and the good functioning of this socially irreplaceable institution family. An important contribution here will be made by this Structural Adjustment Act, which will help to ensure the future of our children and young people. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to bring in what you, as a responsible member of our society, are capable of, above all, this House – for the benefit and for the future of our families. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20974	Mrs Perfuss has now been reported to the House. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e20996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you're the same as me. I am more and more convinced that most of the colleagues must actually be sadomasochists. In fact, we should have been in bed for a long time, including the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Anyway, I'd like to be under the duvet. Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein already gives me a very tired impression. But as a new minister, as a family minister, I wish him all the best, also because he comes from the same district as I do. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few brief comments on poverty. Although Austria is a wealthy country, despite the exemplary social system, 700 000 to 1.5 million Austrians are at risk of poverty. The reasons for this are often bad job opportunities, debt and divorce. Although the general standard of living has doubled compared to 1970, often enough families live with a basic income of only 6 200 s per person, because the poor are usually poorly trained. People in the country are not affected as much as those in the city, and foreigners are particularly at risk of slipping into poverty compared to nationals. Unfortunately, there is no cure to combat poverty. The funds from the hardening fund, which is again spent with 25 million schillings, can only help relieve emergencies – not much more. In the long term, only Mrs Mertel and Mrs Moser have already indicated this – good training opportunities and an efficient economic and employment offensive as planned by the Federal Government – can guarantee better opportunities for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21042	Mr Amon has now been reported on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21063	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You have all seen with your own eyes today that Mr Bartenstein has been given such a beautiful Taferl by Mrs Haller. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They stole them again!]] And there has been a strange incident, when this panel was suddenly taken by Mr Meischberger from the back of this House, and has just been tried to make this table disappear. I would therefore ask that this table be returned to Mr Bartenstein – because it was obviously given to him – by Mr Bartenstein. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: He's going to complain to me!]] But this is, of course, in view of the fact that there are some orthographic errors on this panel. That is obviously the problem if you are allowed to rise with a lack of satisfaction. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But to bring in a little more serious in two, three minutes: The problems of young people in general are, of course, diverse. I do not want to leave this area completely out of the way, even if it is shortly after three o'clock in the morning, and I would say in advance that nothing would be as bad for the Austrian youth as if you had taken the entire room for planning for the future for the next few years. In view of this fact, this savings package is a useful measure – for all the problems that exist in individual areas, for example, when we think of the students. I think it is undoubtedly an important thing to secure the generation agreement, because one cannot believe that anyone can have an interest in paying into a system of which he cannot be sure that at some point he can get something out of this system and draw a benefit. A number of tasks lie ahead of us in the field of youth policy in this legislative period. I am thinking, for example, of an extension of youth participation opportunities, of increased co-determination, of the issue of political education, of drug problems, of youth unemployment, and of a redistribution of living income at the beginning of working life. In view of the hour ahead, I am not going into detail on all these points, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21126	Mr Lacner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21148	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria also takes a leading international role in family policy after the consolidation package. The services in this area can be seen and are not suitable for being called "far-reality building on the families". On the contrary: Services are still provided at the highest level. The aim of these consolidation measures was to ensure these transfers in the future. The still high level of these measures has never been questioned. On the other hand – and this should also be mentioned – these savings have been very strong extensions in recent years. Social transfers alone rose by an average of 11 percent per year between 1990 and 1993. Of course, family policy does not mean petrification to me, but constant development, with a shift in weights according to the changed conditions, without the possibility of a "construction of the families" or "rare mower methods" being mentioned at the same time. In order to ensure and improve family policy transfers, it is certainly necessary not only to respond to changes in the financial framework, but to actively influence them and to make them positive in the future. Criticism of the savings measures in the field of transfers is of course also based on the different social ideas, partly but also on the assessment of possible misdevelopments in the whole or part of our welfare state. Now allow me, after a few basic remarks on family policy, to draw an area out of these family policy benefits and to highlight the importance of this measure, namely that of leave allowance. [[Sound conversations in the bank series of the Freemans.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Capabilities You might be a little quieter? I mean, I give my first speech, and it would be a command of courtesy, Mr Stadler, to listen to me. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] ==References== March this year, reports by the Austrian media went on to say that the EU finally agreed on minimum standards regarding the so-called karenz leave allowance. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (to the Abg. Dr. Mertel) Mrs. Colleague, he has too short a tie! Tell him!]] Do you remember where they were located and, above all, do you remember what has been looked like in some countries? – At least three months after the new, celebrated EU rule, parents are admitted as a minimum leave. Previously, there was no way at all to use such and similar facilities. There is no mention of a paid karenz leave fee there for a long time. Austria is and remains there with the possibility to go two years in Karenz, clearly in the top of Europe. I believe that this must be emphasized over and over again. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum.]] And, of course, you have to mention the following: Between 1990 and 1994, the cost of the karenz money has more than tripled, in particular by introducing the second year of karenz, which, although it has brought us worldwide attention to the field of maternity protection, has on the other hand - and this must also be said - provided us with a huge increase in costs in this area. This development, of course, was difficult to finance in the long term. What possibilities did we have now? – First of all, we could not respond, but only hope that the financing problems will somehow, at some point in time, resolve themselves. – You can give yourself the answer to what would be the direct consequence of this attitude: In not too far away years, we would not only be able to afford the second year, but possibly also the first one. The second option would be to delete the second year of leave, to say to the women and men who have relied on it: We are sorry, but we can no longer afford this social policy measure. Well: One thing is clear not only as a social democrat, but also to anyone who has in mind the social welfare of our Republic: Both solutions would have been unrepresented by social policy. We therefore have a third possibility, or there was a third possibility of taking a long-term social path. This is because, in principle, the possibility of going in Karenz for two years is maintained, but one also says: One and a half years for a parent should be enough. As a general rule, this path is not only more acceptable, but also the best, because it combines social security and balance with long-term financial viability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21211	Mrs Beder is still speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21233	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to deal with this family debate in detail, but in the light of the morning I want to limit myself to a few sentences. Mrs Moser has already mentioned that young people want a harmonious family. We all know, however, that this is not always possible, but that there is violence in the family, violence on women, violence on children. I am glad that the 1996 and 1997 budgets provide for 100 million schillings again for the family advisory services, because the family advisory services can, in some cases, advise and, in part, help. A study has already been commissioned in 1992 at the initiative of the Federal Chancellor and at the initiative of the then Minister of Women, Dohnal, to investigate the causes and consequences of violence. The project manager was Dr. Erwin Ringel and Dr. Leopold Rosenmayr. It is clear from this study that conflicts cannot be carried out by force but are merely suppressed. I am glad that this study also states that, in part, women who are employed and self-employed are more vulnerable to violence or unhappiness than women who are economically dependent on their partners. I believe that the step into a women's house is often a difficult step, because this is linked to the fact that, under the circumstances of friends or family members, one may be viewed as a bit wrong. I am delighted and I also support the call made in the Coalition Agreement, namely that the creation of effective opportunities should be provided for in the intervention of judicial and security authorities – and that, I believe, we should decide quickly – that the violent partner can be turned out of the marital home. I think this is very useful for the help of women who are really in need and who face violent partners. I also speak out vehemently against violent representations on television. I mean, our children and our young people are too exposed to such violence. Today, for example, cable television during children's films – at times when children are watching television – can be seen advertising for later night movies, in which violence is glorified, brutal night films, and the children see it then. We should really do everything we can to ensure that such violent scenes are not shown on television – at such times. The children are suffering. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you something to think about in the early hours of the morning, a quote from an abused boy who said: "By beatings a child never learns that it should not make any mistakes. The child then makes more and more mistakes. Because you're afraid you'll get everything mixed up." That's for children, but I think you can say this also in these early morning hours: We should also think about verbal violence. – Even if it happens here from this pult, verbal violence must also be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21290	In the word, no one has been reported anymore. The debate is closed. – No final word is desired. Ladies and gentlemen! We are then entering the voting procedure, in the vote on the Family and Environment Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This includes the type. 72, 86 and 87 in 95 of the supplements. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled amendments. Mr Haller also has separate votes with regard to individual points of the kind. 72. I am therefore going to vote on the amendments mentioned, on the parts of the draft law, on which separate voting was required, and finally on the remaining parts of the Family and Environment Advisory Group, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 72 Z 5. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I'll just let you know what I'm doing. 72 C 5 as part of the Committee's report, and seek a sign from those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. - That's the majority. Accepted. In addition, Mr Haller and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 72 Z 9. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule. 72 Z 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. Accepted. I'm gonna leave you on this. 72 Z 4, 6, 10 to 19, 28, 34 and 35, 37 to 39 and 43 as amended by the Committee's report and seek a similar sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Family and Environment Advisory Group. 72, 86 and 87 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for a sign. - That's the majority. Adopted. I am now interrupting the meeting until today, 17. April 1996, 9 a.m. Following the resumption of the negotiations, the Federal Chancellery/Public Service Advisory Group will continue. The meeting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 3.22 p.m. and resumed at 9.01 a.m.]] Continued the meeting: 9.01 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21388	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you very warmly and on time and freshly the interrupted 16. Resumption of the meeting of the National Council. As prevented on today's day of negotiations, the MEPs are reported Mag. Dr. Höchtl, Mag. Chief, Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Kammerlander, Hans Helmut Moser, Mrs. Dr. Brigitte Povysilund Mrs. Mag. Stoisits. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21427	The Federal Chancellery has made a statement on the resolution of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, according to which the Federal Minister for Finance has given power. Today, climate is represented by the Federal Minister for Human Rights. Articles 1 to 19 of the Structural Adjustment Act 1996 Federal Chancellery/Public Service
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21454	We are now continuing to negotiate the Structural Adjustment Act. The advisory group Bundeskanzleramt/Public Service will be consulted. This advisory group shall include Articles 1 to 19 of the Structural Adjustment Act. I now ask the rapporteur to initiate the debate soon.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21469	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to ask the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 1 to 19 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee Report 95 of the Supplements. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21488	Thank you to the rapporteur. At the beginning of the discussions, we also set speaking times for today as follows: SPÖ 195 minutes, ÖVP 182, Free 169, Liberal Forum and Greens per 117 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21512	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to wish you a good morning and thank all those who managed to be here on time at such an early hour – after a short rest period. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But let me come to the real subject now. This committee meeting and how it took place was actually symptomatic of all the committee meetings that I have experienced or my group colleagues have experienced: It was marked by the disinterest of the government. After all, everything was already out, nothing could be changed – everything palletti. The coalition parties once again prove themselves to be the leaders of the government. Criticism of the opposition is undesirable. Best of all, she's not getting attached at all. It would be best not to speak. [[Accompaniment with the liberties as well as the detonative acclaim of the abg. Dr. stupid.]] But really sensational – and this is the reason why we should cut this short again – was Mr Cap's speech from the SPÖ in the committee. He has indeed brought it to light, in his contribution to debate, which he himself clearly held to be extremely gestuous and humorous – I think he has remained alone with this assessment – not to say a single word on the matter and on the subject, but to put on exclusively party political polemics, with which he and his party, in the course of these deliberations, has actually disqualified. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now to this so-called official savings package. I would like to deal with a sub-sector, and my colleagues will then also address individual areas. The opinion of the Kärntner State Government in the review procedure clearly shows what is to be kept by the Official Saving Package. I'm allowed to quote: In particular, if the present 16 existing laws and a new draft law are to be put together in a single collection of budget consolidation novels sent to the National Council within a few days and a draft law which is to be sent as a follow-up law in 1996, the preservation of Austrian law culture will be added to a new "beautiful point". [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I understand that the excitement in view of the early morning hour and the watchful and worked night is quite fierce, but I believe that this formulation should nevertheless be put to the fore and give it due consideration. Finally and finally there is talk of the preservation of the Austrian law culture. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And that doesn't tell anyone, it's not just any opposition politician who's "wag" to criticise it, but that's the official opinion of the Kärntner state government. The fact is that the measures relating to the public service are taken in total solely from the point of view of the achievement of savings measures and do not mean any structural changes in substance. I would like to draw up a few points on the field of education which is particularly concerned. Teacher employment is immediately affected – that is what it is all about. This official savings package is intended to save up to 1 400 posts in the field of education, and this is what we want to push through with accompanying measures. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr President, the noise level is unbearable!]] I'm trying to make my voice a little louder.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21578	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning they all said they're fresh and quiet, but now there's such a constant background resonance. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21604	I just want to hold on: For me too, the night was long, and I think it is a question of fairness, it is a question of courtesy to give the speaker at least half the opportunity to make his debate contribution over the stage. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This applies to all here. In principle, therefore, it is about the so-called accompanying measures to reduce the timetable, to reduce the lessons of the AHS sub-level and the primary school, the technical teaching institutions and the educational institutions for kindergarten education. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The pedagogical effects of these measures are not to be discussed here on the ground – we will have enough opportunity to do so – but together with the Minister of Education. And that's not what it's all about now, either. The fact is that 1 400 posts are eliminated, for young teachers. – If the Federal Minister and Government partner continues to make statements and suggests that this will not have an impact on teacher unemployment, that she will not even increase marginally, although at the same time a withdrawal stop for pedak graduates and graduates of the teaching studies on the stage is questionable as to how this should be reconciled. What opportunities do I ask you all seriously, ladies and gentlemen, have young pedagogists – let us call them that – who have so far been able to keep up with karenz representations, Springerdasein et cetera, what is there in this palette, just financially over water when the state now beats the door in front of them? And what about those who have just finished their studies, who, once we say it, have been looking forward to working as a teacher and have not only studied for the Magisterium, because they obviously have no better ideas, whatever is always done to the person concerned, if these people are now told that they are simply separated from being given no need for them? - You don't need them. This must already be seen in a general social context, since the school is increasingly being used as a repair workshop for social misdevelopments and for social defects. Those who work there and manage the whole thing, namely the teachers, must take these repair measures more and more, which goes far beyond the placement of pedagogical content. That should also be remembered, and that should not be forgotten in the whole thing. But it is Pharisee – and I say it literally as a Pharisee par excellence – if, for example – and this is already in direct connection with the Secretary of State, he is here, too, to see – the socialist Vienna City School Council President Scholz himself, mediatally very well prepared – in the face of the forthcoming elections in Vienna this is of course a special sugarl – going into the opposition role, representing the great opposition politician and actually countering his Secretary of State, who is coming from the same political group, saying: It is all terrible that 7 000 young teachers will not get a position beyond the year 2000, and it is particularly bad that only 1 000 AHS teachers in Vienna will have to suffer the hard loss of unemployment. These will not be in place until 2006, i.e. for ten years. In spite of all this, however, there is a dual nature within the government parties. The whole thing has to be seen in the context, in a puzzle system: One says this, the other says that, and the third countercards it again – this is always in the triangle. The Minister of Education, in turn, says that despite the reduction of hours, young teachers can continue to be employed – this is necessary in order to maintain the well-mixed age structure in schools, otherwise there is a shortage of teachers in the immediate future as in the 1970s. – I can only say: Bravo, well recognized, well spoken. But what does this eventually look like in practice? How is this to be implemented, and what is actually being worked on here? It's worth looking at more closely. But here we come again to the socialist city council president, and so, ladies and gentlemen, you see how everything begins to network. At the same time as the Black Minister of Education says it's all palletti anyway, he regrets that the situation is so bad, although his group is government partners and the Vienna City School Council in March issues guidelines for the preparation of the course distribution for the school year 1996/97 to the AHS, in which it is stated that II L teachers – i.e. karenz representations, temporary contract teachers and the like – give hours which a teacher needs so that he has a job and thus an income, under no circumstances – boldly printed, literally! – may be used in the award of hours, as the hours provided for them are required for pragmatised and contractual teachers with secured hours. - Bravo! So we're back to the starting situation. What Chance, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will they only have those – and this is a question I really address to you – who are now completing their training or who are now in training? – Probably zero comma Nothing, zero comma Joseph, can easily be calculated. These are pure red-stick actions and no structural changes. Structural changes really cannot even be mentioned. There are still a few points in the Structural Adjustment Act that I would like to take a short time. It is always said that the structures are being changed. Mr State Secretary, the structures are not changed, but pay cuts are being made and pure savings measures are put in place – nothing else. The hourly conversion for the evening school teachers is a typical example of how to make pay cuts without structural reforms. Now, that's it, and that's all. The current regulation of three to five – five hours held for three hours – is now reduced to the conversion key three to four, and one to one hour on Saturday morning. There has only been the idea of saving without taking into account the impact on the employment situation, i.e. the loss of jobs of the teachers of the evening school. That's a pure reduction in the salary. There are some relevant calculations, Mr State Secretary - we have made this sound in committee and discussed it briefly - which have shown that an accepted other conversion factor, which has also been discussed, could be achieved from seven to ten, full teaching obligations with a much lower attack of multiservices, which will of course also help the state to save, and, on the other hand, the number of unemployed teachers could be kept lower than that provided for in this factor three to four. There is still a special "sugarl", i.e. the reduction of the calculation factor for the remuneration of the permanent additional services, which up to now have been paid by 6.8 percent – now I just don't have anything to do with you at 6.43 percent. I really ask you seriously – I also asked the Minister of Education, because you cannot be seen separately from her "black" colleague –: Does that de facto mean that this hour, which is held to be an additional service, is now less valuable, because it is now paid worse? – This is quite a question that needs to be clarified and answered once. What does that mean? – This is simply a reduction in salary and nothing else. Or does this mean that this hour is worse and therefore worse paid? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are not structural changes, but only red-stick actions, otherwise nothing, according to the lawn mower principle: simply go over them, a little bit is already hanging, and so we get the millions in. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do the unions say about this?]] But at the end of the day, a really very intelligent example of this always-pronounced intelligent saving. There is a reduction in compulsory education for health reasons, which is now limited to two years. So far, 100 per cent of the subscriptions were made in the semi-educated course. Let's hold this as a fact. Now a maximum of 75 percent will be paid in the case of half the teaching obligation – is that right, Mr. State Secretary? – i.e. a reduction of 25 percent and at the same time the withdrawal of the right to retirement. Let's also hold this as a fact. However, if a pedagogy or a pedagogue uses a part-time obligation for health reasons, i.e. it is practically not healthy enough to make a full teaching obligation, but has a reduction in teaching obligations for health reasons, there is a maximum of 75 percent for this. However, if the person concerned remains fully ill, she receives 100 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Paradox!]] This is really paradoxical, and it is not necessarily an incentive to bring people back to schools part-time. It is created by the state because of a grey zone which is exploited or not, depending on the nature, and an incentive by the state to take the more financially favourable path. I do not think that this is really a good example of intelligent saving. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand – and this must be seen in this context too – we take the case of a teacher, a teacher who is also a mother whose child is ill and who cannot meet the full teaching obligation for care reasons. What do you think this mother who maybe takes on half a teaching obligation? – When using a 50 percent teaching obligation, it is not paid 75 percent, but only 50 percent. Now I ask you: Where's the weight? Why is one thought higher than the other? - Maybe you can give us some information. You really can't call that social justice. That children or family members also get sick and in 90 percent of the cases of women remain left to manage these things within their own family is a social-political fact, which has not changed until now. This should also be taken into account. Let me conclude by saying: The Federal Government is once again proving, with such unbridled, unbalanced measures, that it is not actually willing to tackle structural problems which are undoubtedly at its root and to eliminate them in the longer term by appropriate measures, such as through a genuine and comprehensive administrative reform or, in particular, through a performance-oriented remuneration system. However, pedagogues as scapegoats and as culprits for the Marod State finances and to burden them three times as citizens with these austerity measures are neither a sign of intelligent savings nor the structural measures that the public service has expected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21680	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21702	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Before the Liberal Forum was adopted on the extended Easter holiday, Mr Moser of the Liberal Forum continued on 26 March. In March 1996, he participated in the Committee on Budgets and something rather curious... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Not just the Moser, everyone! You've been ill-informed again!]] I'll take you. Your argument with the concern for the Constitution is not out. I believe that, for political reasons, you have taken a political decision by a political group not to attend the parliamentary committee meetings. Mr Moser – that is at least curious, that is why I would like to tell you – has spoken of positive efforts in connection with the administrative reform, but the great throw is missing. Mr Moser – unfortunately he is not here today – has completely wrong ideas, at least as regards the administrative reform. Administrative reform is a process which cannot be done with a throw. Mr Haselsteiner! This is not only the case with large firms in the private sector, but also a process of profound reforms and cannot take place on a single day. I already agree that this process of administrative reform has been laborious over the last few years, some of which have even come to a standstill. There was much in preparation, in studies, opinions and good will, but little in implementation, implementation and political enforcement. But in the second half of the 1990s this process succeeded, it has long been initiated and irreversible. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, the Austrian state will present itself slender, efficient and economical. What are the elements of this reform process? – First of all, the so-called savings package with which the previous speaker has such difficulties. This official savings package brings savings, with immediate and sustainable effects, eliminates abuses, brings administrative reform in the narrower sense, e.g. skill adjustments, has the tendency of system approximations and also entails social policy elements. Above all, it brings a trend change in the staffing status of the public service. So if you can see no structural changes at minus 11,000 posts, Mrs Colleague – a pity you are leaving us now – then I must say that I really have doubts about your objectivity. It is also necessary for posts to be saved. In the last ten years, there has been an 18 percent increase in the number of federal servants. At present, there are around 310 000 staff who are responsible for costs beyond 200 billion schilling. This required a great deal of understanding of public servants, a responsible staff representative and also negotiating skills. Mr State Secretary! I would like to congratulate you on this great success of the negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This negotiation success was also crucial and very important and has paves the way for further consensus. However, the administrative reform process is not complete. I would also like to invite the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to continue to participate and to cooperate. I arbitraryly grab out some elements: There is a fundamental task to be carried out: What is the state supposed to do? What? What else? I mean, we need more state, for example, in the environmental field, in the field of childcare, less state in the post – this path has already been taken anyway – at the Federal Forests, at the Statistical Central Office, at the agricultural institutions, in the weather service and avalanche production. So a wide field of activity. Or on the problem of the follow-up costs of laws. There too, the opposition will have the opportunity to cooperate constructively, for example in the survey of the Committee on Budgets and the introduction of the Federal Accounts of Costs. A survey will also take place on the subject of red tape reduction. A comment on the harmonisation of pension systems. It is clear from this that administrative reform is a process and not a throw. The harmonisation of pension systems is certainly fair and correct, but, ladies and gentlemen, those who have entered public service in good faith, in knowledge of benefits in retirement, in times when public service income has been worse than that in the private sector. They're not supposed to have any disadvantages now. I did not fully understand colleagues in the committee when he meant that it would be a social-political scandal to protect trust here. Maybe he'll do this later, he won't give me his attention at least now. For new entrants, there will in any case be harmonisation of pension systems in the new Federal Employment Law, where there will be completely new conditions for public servants: for example, a changed life income curve, higher salaries at the beginning, transfer possibilities, flexible working time models, salary reform for contract staff and much more. The first draft has been to the trade unions, and the government proposal will be sent to the House this year. Another good opportunity for the opposition to participate constructively. In particular, I would like to stress the social policy commitment of Mr Schlögl, for example, in the area of youth: more than 1 000 in 1996, almost 1 000 in 1997 in the area of older longterm unemployed: 300 photographs of at least 50 years of age who were unemployed for at least one year, that is to say, a real model function of the state. There is also a continuous increase in the number of disabled people: 1994: 300 plans, 1995: 350, 1996: 400. In this area too, congratulations! Congratulations! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a few comments on the amendment of the Federal Ministry Act 1986: two ministerial posts are known to be less, three less state secretaries. I believe that this is still possible, and I think that an even smaller number of members of the Federal Government would be negligent. The challenges associated with the EU are enormous. It is also important that EU State Secretary Schlögl supports Mr Bundeskanzler. Some newspaper commentators and some opposition politicians have criticised the competence of the Federal Minister Dr. Scholten – quite unsuccessful in the rest. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Was the criticism unsuccessful or the minister?]] It is right, Mr President, what Federal Minister Scholten said in a newspaper interview, namely that universities, infrastructure and telecommunications are key standard factors. I would add that transport, training and communication are also important location factors. This link between transport, training and communication makes sense, which brings more attractiveness to Austria as an economic location and brings us closer to the main objective of the Coalition Convention, namely to safeguard and create jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion. Hard times for the opposition: first the elections lost on 17. In December 1996, second, we decided in Parliament a successful reform package for the public service, thirdly a slender, powerful federal government, fourthly the largest groups of the population recognise the measures. I have a certain understanding of the disorientation and frustration of the opposition, but above all a quiet joy that destructive and populist politics in Austria suffers shipwreck. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21760	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21790	Mr President. High house! My honourable predecessor, of course, was very enthusiastic about the budget and he also said that the administrative reform would be a process. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He also worked in the committees – unlike you!]] His knowledge is obviously marked by the fact that he overlooks a little that this long-term process of administrative reform is the real reality. This is the central accusation that we must make to the so-called reconstruction partnership. It is quite clear that public service, the administration of one of the very, very serious problems in that State. After all, almost every third tax schilling is moving to the public service and administration. Therefore, any budgetary reorganisation, any attempt at consolidation, which does not concern public administration, is at all political levels: Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities, sentenced to failure. For this reason, since 1987, this would have been the central task of the great coalition, which was formed as a rehabilitation partnership: It would have been your job to make this "millstone" – at least partial – easier. If you look at this aspect of what the great coalition has brought together in these nine budget years, I must say that the result is more than thin. The fact is that over the past nine years, despite all the announcements, staff levels have grown enormously that public service expenditure has increased disproportionately in terms of the revenue development of the Republic. As a summary of the administrative policy of the great coalition, it can only be said that it did not at the end of the day achieve any administrative reform, but also no budgetary consolidation on the administrative reform, on the limitation of public service expenditure. This is a fact that my revered predecessor can't change anything. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let's take a look at how things have developed: All government declarations since 1987 are announced, announced and announced again. In 1987, it stated in the agreement on the work of the great coalition: 1.5 percent reduction in activity. I say this so clearly because, as a result, it is always done as if the increase in public service is due only to certain sectors such as education and security which one had to provide in person. The fact is that the necessary and also announced objective, namely the effort, i.e. the budget burden, that is to say the consolidation contribution, if you want to reduce it annually by 1.5 percent, as the great coalition has done, has failed. On the contrary, the effort has increased disproportionately. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is past!]] 1987, yes. You think all of this is so successful. That's not it. There have been announcements in four government declarations. Allow me to be a little skeptical about your early jubilation, that everything will now be different. I told you: In 1987, such promises were made. In 1990 it was said that the establishment plan would be reduced by 1 per cent annually. That would have been quite nice: In nine years it would be 9 percent. In the case of an asset now summated of approximately 250 000 This would mean that we should be around 225 000 today. I know, that's where the train got away now, et cetera. But by the balance, if we take the public service into a slightly tighter framework, we must be about at this level. - You know, it's not us. Mr Schlögl, State Secretary, hoped to be at 236,000 in 1997. Geb's God, it's coming. I really wish him only: I miss out on the promises of faith so often announced that something is happening. The same was true of the next government declaration in 1994. Even then, of course, savings et cetera were made with exact announcements. But this legislative period is well known to have been very short, and that is why we do not have to lose many words about it. The fact is that the great coalition supports its self-esteemed objective of the opposition as a general objective of achieving fiscal consolidation through a reform of the administration, over a reduction in public service expenditure until that time has not been achieved. She failed. That's reality – and not your cheers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am now saving you the exact figures to be mentioned in this context. In any case, it is true that in this period of public service, the balance has grown by around 10 percent, but has not fallen. A very crucial point that the government is considering is that, in turn, I must say to God that it achieves this objective, the costs of public service will be frozen at the 1995 level. I hope that you will achieve this, because something has been so crucial to the past that public service expenditure has grown beyond the increase in public revenue. The situation has really deteriorated and not improved. However, my colleague, Mrs Klepsch, likes this very well, and he is pleased that the budget burden has grown in about 5 percent jumps. Ladies and gentlemen! Why has the government not achieved any positive results in this area? In any case, there are some very crucial things to keep in mind. First of all, public service is a very large group of persons. Now, if you count all the local authorities and other "anrainers", I would like to say, you can see that this is a group of people whose number is not far from half a million and with their family environment is around a quarter of the population. There are 21 percent of employees employed in the public sector, a huge sum. This is a factor, because there is also political power behind it, which is well organized in the Public Service Trade Union. I understand that the political structure, which is thought and structured in a social partnership, such as Austria, represents an almost irrevocable rock and, therefore, a large number of ministers of administration and state secretaries failed to carry something forward. Mr President of the Council! But it cannot be the fact that we take note of this. We need to change something about these things. So far, it hasn't happened. There are again announcements, and we will see what comes out of it. Three Federal Ministers have lost their teeth in the administrative reform. You knew the problem. It has also been addressed – at least in person. After all, it was a Federal Minister Neisser who fell into the administrative reform. After all, it was a vice chancellor to whom this task was assigned, namely, Vice Chancellor Riegler, one has almost forgotten it. After that, Federal Minister Weiss from Vorarlberg tried to bring something forward. Now I am not counting the Secretary of State, your predecessor, Mr Schlögl, who has also tried to do so. The fact is: They have failed in a number of political circumstances, which are currently present in a large-scale coalition system. This is, on the one hand, the fact of the strong union, and one simply has to present it in real terms. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Wrong! Clearly wrong!]] It was only necessary to quote Dohr several times. That's a fact. The second is: You, ladies and gentlemen, have also failed in the reform of the State's tasks, namely to the heads of state. I recall the state reform, which would be very important at the head of an administrative reform. The Republic should consider: What are the activities that a state is actually supposed to carry out? There would be a need for an initial explanation where, in our opinion, what has been done so far in dissemination is quite plausible. But it is not the yellow of the egg either, and we have to go much further. Secondly, you have failed in the state reform in the prestige of the national leaders. That too must be expressed openly! Although a large state reform has been announced, papers have been produced over and over again, it has been small-scale, but the big throw has not succeeded. At the end of the day, however, what was at least developed and borne by a wider majority of parliamentarians was stoned and shot down by the national leaders at the end of 1994 and subsequently the Federal Government was even grounded and said: Well, if the heads of state don't go there, you can't do anything! – Since then, peace and quiet and pause have been in the state reform. Mr State Secretary! I hope – and this is one of your agendas – that you will take up this thread again and get results in the foreseeable future. Finally, you have also failed to step on each other's toes and not give in. In many areas of detail it is necessary to determine: This is a "black" area, which is a "red" area, and if nothing goes, then nothing can go there either. This is actually the basic philosophy of this current savings package, saying: That must not be put on, because – for God's sake! – if you change something at one point, due to material circumstances, as is the case in the university field, then the whole thing coincides like a ticket house! For me, this is a symptom of the political inability of the system of large-scale, social partnership: We must put everything in a large package, negotiate it as far as possible so that the public does not notice it, and then the whole thing has to be pulled through. . We will still have to debate the matter with the Supreme institutions when we talk about Parliament. – However, the irrational thing is that, with better knowledge, a government in many points where it knows that it has to change or correct something about it, does not think anything can happen, for otherwise this whole accumulation of interests may go into the breaks. We have already experienced this in the savings package I: The government has brought air and, in my opinion, has sought further reforms, particularly in the administrative field, but then the trade unionists and the staff representatives from the school sector have protested – their own at the time; Mr Neugebauer will agree that at the time it was teaching minister Busek, who was torpeded by his own trade union – and then on the red side one or the other has been dropped, and then the whole house of cards has just collapsed, and it was concluded. In my opinion, this is the system that clearly poses shortcomings. We shall now see whether what the great coalition has done for this legislative period will suffer the same fate. I fear that it will be quite different in detail. Indeed, there will be a wave of innovation in all areas, and we will consider whether all of this holds the way it is planned. I hope that a saving course will not simply be carried out by lawn mowers, but will be carried out structurally and by reforms. The interest groups should take a positive role in this, rather than simply taking part in a little bit, but do not leave room for real reforms. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come to the present. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Finally!]] The same song is also sung in the new Declaration of Government: We have announced moderate pay rounds in the Coalition Convention. We have announced a reduction in the number of public servants by 11 000. Equivalent measures are to be taken in the Federal Railways and Pension Insurance sectors. Structural measures such as the limitation of Pragmatization and pension law are planned, and a zero-one round is planned for politicians' salaries, in the final part of this chapter. All of this is almost identical in previous government declarations. Let us now look at what is found in the structural laws. With the moderate salary accounts – I have to say that – one has actually taken a break in the usual and previously practiced Quasi dynamization. I expressly register this as positive. The second positive fact is that the problem of early retirement has actually been recognized and is now at least addressed in the approach. It is, of course, a remarkable thing that the average age of retirement in public service, at all levels, is relatively far below the average age of retirement of other workers. This is one thing that has developed for some time now and which, unfortunately, has worsened the situation. For example, if in the municipality of Vienna – a very large employer – the average age of retirement somewhere between 53 and 54. I wonder: Either the Wiener are so disease-sensitive or the employer is the municipality of Vienna so very hard that the employees there almost after the 50. Are life-years completely destroyed, or is there something else going on? – I think the third point is reality. But it is also in the Federal Service in part – although not in this scarce form – that the decision-making in the public service is made relatively easy. It is now being tried to change a lot. But I believe, Mr State Secretary – and this is a very crucial point – that much harder action is needed. However, this point is tending to be addressed. Finally, at least the attempt is being made to minimise the inequality between the pension systems of officials and private workers, where there is really a world in between, but this will not be enough in the long run. On the other hand, Mr State Secretary, important things, which you have also personally announced, have not happened. First: Although originally planned, they have done nothing at all in harmonizing the employment and social situation of public servants and those of private sector workers – that is, the harmonisation of ASVG and public service. I believe that this must be a very, very essential reform objective, in the balance and in the longer term. I know that, Mr Herb is really right, that you will need transitional periods, but the goal is essential. For there is an injustice in Austria: In fact, after many decades of public service activity through the public sector, which has a safe job and has found a good situation from age-care, it has had a low income, since self-dynamics has significantly improved the income situation, and in recent times it has even been claimed that the income situation of public servants is even higher than the average of the other employed persons who are self-employed. This is a development that we must take note of and take into account where we have consequences. That's what I'm saying as a public servant. That's very important! Our aim is to ensure that At the end of the day, a uniform worker concept with a relatively uniform labour law – which will have to be differentiated there and there – and with a corresponding social approximation in that country. This is a very essential goal, where unfortunately these things did not happen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Another criticism: The Federal Government was already a step further in an earlier government statement – Mr. Herb, if I may remind you – on another point, in the beenium question. Now I already know: Nothing is more pleasant for a self-employed person than if his income increases in bi-yearly rhythms. This is pleasant, one notes it as a positive employee. At the end of the day, however, in the public service, but also in the private sector, we have reached a poor situation, as if – and this would be a very essential point, Mr State Secretary, and it has also been announced that I find nothing in the structural adjustment laws – the public servant at the beginning of his career, where he may be setting up a family or still has training costs et cetera, that is to say, in the first period of work I still do not deserve much, despite the dynamics contained in the salary schedule, and then, if he goes into retirement, he is very good in income. I think it can only be the objective of a reasonable income policy for public servants that the initial salaries are increased and that income growth in the last decade of active working life is strongly flattened. This curve, i.e. raising the income of beginners and flattening the elderly, is a very essential goal, and I think it could be achieved cost-neutrally. This is also of utmost importance for the pension situation. I believe that public servants are actually privileged in terms of the pension situation, and we will have to restrict it more. I mean, Mr Neugebauer, that it would be important for the trade union to understand that it is more in favour of the younger colleagues, even if the trade union representatives are at least older ladies and gentlemen, if I may say so. This aspect of younger officials should be more considered as a goal. Next essential point, where you have also made announcements, but where not very much or nothing has happened, concerns Pragmatization. I believe that Pragmatization is necessary for certain areas of public service – but that is the exception, as you yourself have said! Pragmatization must be the exception and must not be the case of what it is still now. I believe that this is also a point which has a very significant impact on pension law and on the income situation. These are the points we are missing, where nothing has happened or for which there is no evidence in the structural adjustment laws that there is actually a willingness to reform. That concludes. Mr State Secretary! I mean, especially in your area of responsibility, the state reform is missing as a prerequisite for a meaningful administrative reform, which was originally taken into account in administrative management. It really breathed the great coalition at the time and tried to put it on its feet. I would like to thank the current Second President of the National Council of Neisser, who has formally "wrung down" in this regard. Just: there's hardly anything happening. The evaluation of this reform package has not taken place. First, there was no state reform, second, no administrative reform that does not depend on the point, thirdly, no legal consolidation. The constitutional adjustment that you have in your drawer and where I hope you will get it out soon, especially in the light of the constitutional debate we have here in these days, is due to its implementation. You can force your thick convoy of your attempt to impose into our federal constitution everything that exists in constitutional law, in these days another thick pack of more or less reluctant, or, let us say, the meaning of the Constitution does not conform to the relevant materials, yet a constitutional adjustment is necessary. In my opinion, all of these things together not only make this state slim, save budget resources, increase the effectiveness of public hands, but also bring you closer to the goal of consolidating the budget. What you've done so far is an attempt to cover the costs – that's nothing negative, but, on the contrary, to mention as positive – but in the long run, you won't come around for real structural changes in the public service. We miss this, even if it was announced in the Government Declaration. In any case, what you have submitted so far is not enough. In a few years, you will be able to recover the public service's charges, and you will be back at the starting point. That's why: State reform, administrative reform, and then appropriate concrete design of the service and remuneration right of the public service. These steps would have to move things forward. What you have presented and announced so far is not enough for us.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21900	The next item is Mr Donabauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e21921	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A federal proposal which is intended to take effect for two years, which needs to change fundamentally, needs appropriate preparation and also a preliminary consultation. When I listened to my previous speaker, I had the impression that we were consulting the Government Declaration today. Dr. Frischenschlager, I guess You are very, but we are today discussing the Structural Adjustment Act, today, yesterday and the next day, and this Structural Adjustment Act is a comprehensive matter that has the necessary adjustments to arrange the ongoing change processes. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Yes, eh!]] We have excessive expenditure in the government budget, we must stop this development, we must stabilise. That's the hour's commandment! We need to focus on this, and we need to work on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The challenge is quite simply that we must finally limit the pre-emptions to the future in order to secure room for tomorrow, for the future. This is the postulate, and that is why we all have to work together. We all are good hope, the general economic flute... [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Not me!]] We are well expected to cope with the general economic flute that we have not ordered from God. We want to create work for as many people as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl, even for you, no question at all! – We must strive to meet this Europe-wide challenge together. Those who read newspapers yesterday can recall that the President of the Commission, Santer, who was here yesterday, said that we have a general employment crisis and that we can only work it together, in the 15 states' concert, that we must meet it together. We have a challenge in this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These consultations require our whole commitment. It is also about the optimal use of time. Many are sorry here and in the media that they are totally overwhelmed that all these materials are far too complicated. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly note the following: I have been involved in many of the Committee's deliberations, and I have not noticed there that someone has been particularly overwhelmed. It was quite normal, and I noticed it yesterday, and I do not notice it today either. Only: What challenges us – ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you – is an excessive activism. [[the speaker looks towards the liberals]] It does nothing if we have important things to discuss and deal with for three hours with the discussion of questions and many hours to vote. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Four hours!]] That doesn't mean anything! Yeah, yeah. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why they sleep so long today!]] This is where valuable time is lost that we need for important tasks in this country at the end of the day. Today, the Federal Chancellery and Public Service chapters are discussed. The negotiators succeeded in implementing savings. For this, we want to express our appreciation to all those who have contributed. Mr State Secretary! This was certainly not easy, because the diversity of interests is great. I heard from the previous speakers today: One wants what others don't want. That is, we will have a lot more to discuss, so it will still be laborious. But today we are not consulting all things that will still be in place in the next few years, but we are just consulting the Structural Adjustment Act. It is planned to save 16 billion schillings in the public service. This is a huge step that will, of course, also have a corresponding effect, which we also need to think about. There is also the legislator, there we are all required. I would therefore ask you to show more care in the case of new applications. Please, let us remember: Every law needs its administration, and every law not only orders, but every law also requires new rules. And all of this is not necessarily just encouraging, and that is why we need to pay more attention to it in the next few days. The challenge I mean is that we also need to step up the process of legalisation. By means of legal adjustment, many laws have often become unreadable through countless innovations, they are no longer enforceable. It must therefore be our effort to make greater use of the possibility of re-declaration. I think we have a rich field of activity in front of us in the next few weeks, months and years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important to perceive these potentials, but not only to perceive them, but also to implement them. Dr. Frischenschlager also spoke about the forthcoming state reform. We are all talking about this very often, and I believe that we must actually tackle it too. This has also been demanded by all sides. We need to reorganise the structure of competence within the local authorities. We need confidence-building measures between the federal, state and local authorities in order to restructure the financial impact. We need a new Article 15a agreement on the consultation mechanism, because only then can we implement things. Mr State Secretary! You have indeed been put on the table a lot, and we are not afraid that if we are offered the opportunity to cooperate properly from the beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If savings are spoken of in the public service, of course, this is the consent of everyone – the least, of course, of those concerned; understandably. If this is said: We need a new service right, we need a new worker concept, we need a harmonisation of pension systems! Each of us knows it, only it will be very difficult to implement all of this, because that requires caution in order not to create disorder or unnecessarily hectic hustle and bustle. This must be carried out in a solid and correct form. There are, of course, areas in public service where one cannot save. I believe that in the next few days we will have to give a little more attention to the security sector. This is not because Austria has become more troubled, but because the world has become more moving and because we are threatened with many new dangers. That is why we must give clear answers here. So this is an area where we do not need to limit, but probably expand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is also a need for action in the administrative court. You will have expected this subject to be addressed by me today, but it is really important to me. If you look at how the file is developing there, it is already a reason to think, if within ten years the new attack has increased from 4000 to almost 11 200, in the meantime the uncompleted cases have gone to 9 700, and about 400 complaints per month more than can be done. We have to react to this, and we cannot say: That's right, that's it, nothing changes! The citizens are waiting for answers. We have already put forward a number of proposals in the Committee's deliberations in this area, and I believe that we must work together to ensure that the proposals are implemented quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from the opposition, there was a broad agreement. We know concepts such as "your drive over" and "rasen mower" and "unsocial" and "fearly" enough. We are waiting for proposals, and if you say: Here not lawn mower, but here lawn care!, then tell us where and how lawn care. We're waiting for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also personally disturbed by the fact that there are still protests at the universities. In a free state everything is allowed, yes, you just have to think about whether everything is useful. When I went to Parliament this morning, a woman, a Vienna woman, spoke to me. She said: I'm 70 years old, and I'm a little worried about the future, just look at our youth. – I said: Madame, we cannot condemn her on a flat-rate basis. But what we must do is invite them to talk and negotiate, and we should not let them move around the streets all the time, although they think they can arrange their future there. They are endangering their future there, and I believe that must be shown to young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every discussion – whether in newspapers, television or elsewhere – is about savings. And, of course, this is also the question: Ladies and gentlemen of politics, what are you doing? Wear your as well. You're gonna make sure you're doing this? Yes, we can give several good examples here: There have been no increases in salary or salary since 1994 to 1998. Someone else should do this to us! There are only a few professional groups that have to take on this victim. We made the government smaller. That too, I believe, is a positive, a resuscisable measure We have re-arranged the financing of parties. We have taken back 10 percent, and we will have to consult a few more. But I think you should show that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! Participation financing and saving – that is what you have to say. This cannot be done in such a way as to demand it on the one hand, but on the other hand to oppose the national election outcome of the 17th century. December raises because 18 million schilling are missing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is your fear!]] That's your only reason. This soup is really too thin, I tell you. – Mr President, I understand that you are excited. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to save, show us that you really do. We are waiting for you not only to make announcements, but also to finally take action. High house! We have a great responsibility to handle these changes together with the citizens. We need to get away from short-term conveniences. We need to create conditions in common efforts to be able to take a reasonable savings course. We are in the best society. Many European countries show us every day that they have to do and do conversion measures in their budgets. We too are doing this, and I do not think we should stop looking for better daily. It is our duty to understand that additional burdens and additional expenditure will not secure the future but endanger the future. We therefore invite everyone to take part in this structural adjustment law, to which we will give our approval. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We ask you: Become aware of your responsibility to our country and its citizens and take a reasonable path to the welfare of our country Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22107	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22128	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already learned a lot from Mr Donabauer's speech. I now know what is important, what is important. Don't create disorder, Mr Donabauer said. That is the hour, the hour in which we adopt 98 laws or amendments, where it is already clear that, when these 98 laws or amendments are adopted, the amendments to the legislation are still being introduced into these discussions, as they have already been included in the Committee's deliberations. And even if this revision of the amendment is still being introduced here in plenary, it is expected that within a few weeks or months the revision of these structural adjustment laws will take place with new revisions. It is simply the matter that you decide here, so bad that it makes compelling adjustments necessary. This is what you know, ladies and gentlemen, and yet Mr Donabauer said: Do not create disorder! He also says not to create hustle and bustle! That too was a foreign exchange issued by Mr Donabauer. Ladies and gentlemen! Please, what is it other than a hustle and bustle that you have created here with these discussions? You can also not reduce this impression through a semi-empty house. Now, of course, it is over, but what has happened in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen, was in principle nothing but a blind hectic, which is in no way appropriate to what we are discussing here, what we should decide on what structural reforms are necessary – for this Republic, for public service, for administrative reform. That is why I would like to add to the foreign ministers, Mr Donabauer, that they are not going empty miles. We are going empty kilometers with what you here regard as a great structural reform and structural adjustment, empty kilometres insofar as we are likely to have to discuss actual structural adjustments or new structural reforms in a few months. For of the major structural reforms, Mr State Secretary, which you have also announced in the field of public service, and which I also agree that they are necessary, nothing is left of what we now decide in the structural adjustment legislation; I am thinking, for example, of the area of pensions. Now one could add to the phrase "do not go empty kilometers": "not hollow phrases threshing", Mr Donabauer. That's the hour's foreign exchange! For what you have done here, Mr Donabauer, has been nothing but hollow phrases, for example if you say that extra burdens and extra expenditure do not secure the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Kiss: There all Austria laughs!]] This is an empty phrase, because also restrictions and job destruction, what you are promoting here, do not secure the future. So what do you want? You have to express more clearly what you propose, what prospects you have for this country. I come back to the structural adjustments and I will try to explain in some detail what we understand about them. There is a large area which has not even been taken into account in these structural adjustments. Mr State Secretary, you too should not be unaware of the fact that there are not only officials in the public service, but also contract staff. This is an important point on which we must first agree. For all the adjustments and restrictions that you have and will decide on for the public service with regard to civil servants are also made to the contract staff who do not, however, enjoy the benefits of the civil servants. The contract staff are those who feel both the disadvantages of the public service – the bad salaries in the active time – and the disadvantages of the private sector, namely the small pensions of the ASVG. This group is also covered by structural adjustments. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... safe workplace!]] If you say, Not the labour market! I could give you some good examples. [[Call the SPÖ: "Workplace"!]] Of the structural adjustments you will now decide, contract staff will be equally affected, namely in the salary round and in the salary adjustments you propose. I am not convinced that that regulation is excellent with the two unique adjustments that you will decide here. I would like to have a trade union, which, if only little is possible in terms of salary, at least achieves that something is changing in public service jobs – in certain areas. It should be tried to enforce modern working time arrangements. In certain areas, for example with teachers, this is possible, and you know that, Mr State Secretary. These working time arrangements allow not only the existing floor to be occupied by teachers, although massive restrictions are also necessary in this area, but also to allow young teachers to be included in particular. It would be possible to implement it with modern working time regulations, with a modern teacher’s right to work, or with a new official’s right to work. It would be feasible if the question of Pragmatization were finally discussed honestly and openly in this country. But this is obviously not possible, because there are massive resistances on the part of the union, which I believe, Mr Neugebauer – I say quite openly – leads the small officials as a protective sign in order to secure the rights of the court councils. It is nothing else, Mr Neugebauer, what the trade union has been doing to public service policy in recent months. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Neugebauer: Awesome!]] I can also prove this to you and have already mentioned it. Where have you been, Mr Neugebauer, when it came to protecting the rights of contract workers and demanding that they should not be subject to the same adjustments and should be subject to the same adjustments as officials because they have substantially different conditions? Where have you been? Where did you defend these rights? – I didn’t hear from the union! Mr Neugebauer! Where have you been as a trade unionist in recent months when it came to defending the rights of the younger public servants who are heavily burdened by these structural adjustments, to those who have reached a relatively good position at the age of 50, 55 or 60, actually only count the days until retirement and make this somehow as favourable as possible? - I didn't hear anything. These are the points you have to address in the debate on the public service. These are the points where reforms are needed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are not only older court councils who want to wait for the pension and achieve the best possible pension design – that is what I say now in a polemic way; I already know – but there are also younger officials and, above all, contract staff, Mr Neugebauer, whose rights you actually have to represent and their future – that is addressed to you, Mr State Secretary – this debate is also about. As regards the assets: The measures you take in the field of assets and now decide on are much more relevant to the younger officials. All restrictions, not only on salary with the two-way adjustments for 1996 and 1997, but also on the limitation of anniversary payments and so on, concern younger and active contract staff or officials much more than older or retired officials. An additional problem is that in the field of public service, by the measures you have put in place, you also create multiple burdens, which actually lead to undue burdens. You can discuss all of this. Of course, it must be discussed quite openly whether, if the state is no longer able to afford it and wants to do so, it should not be reduced in terms of salary increases, whether one does not do what you actually did, namely a one-time salary supplement, which is not charged, and so on. Of course, we can discuss this, but there must be something to do with it: either jobs or a future – not necessarily the secure, pragmatic future, but a future that is worth living – also in public service. If I look at what there are multiple loads for certain groups, then I must say that you will probably partially produce a completely counterproductive effect with these loads. Let us take the example teacher or the example university. There are not only the burdens from the general savings package, where the term "saving" is actually related to what we decide on loads here, not only because it is burdens, is wrong, but because saving is not what you achieve with it. In fact, it also causes additional expenditure, but elsewhere. Let's take the range of multiple loads again. There are groups that are repeatedly burdened by the cuts in the general public savings package, then there is a separate school or teacher savings package, then there is a separate university savings package, and then if you have the wrong to be a woman or a family, for example, in public service, there is also the burden that you are exposed to by not only being employed by officials or contract staff and at a school that is, so to speak, exposed as a teacher and as a parent, but is also subject to restrictions for women and for families. So it can catch a single person, especially in the public service, not only once or twice, but three, four or even five times with the burdens you decide here. This is a cumulative effect which, of course, is unreasonable and leads to resistance for certain persons and groups in this situation. We will feel these resistances. We will feel that they are willing to carry university reforms, for example, as far as teachers or university SMEs are concerned. For if we first give people the feeling that they are only the beneficiaries of the system, that they have to pay far too much anyway, that they have to expect salary deductions not only this year, but also in the coming years, with restrictions, not only this year, but also in the next few years, then people become annoying, then they will resist and will also refuse what is really necessary in reforms. And I do not think this is necessarily a situation that is desirable in which we can actually achieve the structural reforms needed in the field of public service. I will address one area in particular, namely the area of pensions. It is amazing for me, Mr State Secretary – and you have made a lot of promises here – that in the field of the harmonisation of pension systems the most few are taking place and that there is nothing left to do with it in the coalition agreement. This must be taken into account once: In 1990 the government parties to the Coalition Agreement agreed that any future change in pension rights must exclude further development of the different systems. All changes must therefore apply in the same way – I stress: in the same way – to all pension schemes. In other places, it says: In order for the pension scheme to continue to be understandable – that would be the first euphemism – and to be perceived as justifiable, the currently different pension systems are only to be developed in parallel and merged in the long term. There are no longer any foreseeable differences to be compensated for. That was 1990, coalition agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ. – Nothing happened in the following years. In 1994 you agreed as a coalition to also take harmonisation measures in this area of pensions. That's what it says – I quote –: Government parties will continue the path of harmonisation and longer-term insurance in the pension system. – This was in 1994, a little shorter than in 1990, and had the consequence that the path of longer-term harmonisation and protection of pension systems has not been taken but has been split. Since then, we have had different pension contributions between public servants, railways and ASVG insured persons. This is a problem with harmonisation. In my opinion, this is a problem which, from the point of view of the public service trade union, is a good argument for preventing this harmonisation. This is also argued by the Public Service Union. And then we still have the problem that now, although all the parties – and I really emphasize this: all the parties; there are not so many similarities between all the parties here in this House, which could be welcomed – you have agreed that the harmonisation of pension systems is our goal, namely all pension systems. There is no party that has been excluded from it. And what is the consequence? – The government parties who still represented this in the election campaign agree again in a new coalition agreement. But there is nothing left in it about the harmonisation of pension systems. What you, at least in 1990 and 1994, and probably before, I did not look at it, in relation to the harmonisation of pension systems, has been eliminated. It is no longer a goal of this government, it must be said clearly and clearly. In this way, Mr State Secretary, you will have, in your honourable efforts, this harmonisation of pension systems – and this will have She is trying to at least point out – achieve or approach – also counter-carrying through the Coalition Convention. This is clearly the point: They may, as it were, give good speeches to the public, but they are essentially prevented by the situation which is obviously in the coalition, or by the coalition agreement itself, from starting this harmonisation of pension systems. That's an unsustainable state! This is also a break from a clear election promise! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not need to cry out here about broken elections, Mr State Secretary. I know, there's enough of that. But I note that this would have been a point where you would have had the support of all the opposition parties, to which all – ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ, Liberal Forum and Green – have jointly agreed. And then it disappears from the coalition agreement! Is that not a matter at all, even though you promised? This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties. This only shows how "fair" you are and how "severe" you first take your suffrages and second, your own intentions. Because it was your declared intention to go the way of this harmonisation. The last point, and it's not more important. Mr Donabauer also referred to him with one of his words, when he said: The challenge is the labour market. To what is going to happen and what is to happen in the next few years, we have to face up to it. – This, of course, also concerns the public service. First of all, this concerns the necessary administrative simplification and red tape reduction, which you always promote, but which you do not achieve with a structural adjustment law, which consists of 98 individual laws or innovations, but rather – on the contrary – interact. It was also Mr Donabauer who said: Of course, every law needs its administration. – They decide here 98 laws or innovations, but obviously not many thoughts about how, with what added burden, what consequences for the administration of these laws should be administered and what this means for the administration. All these measures, which you have or will decide here, cost something. The consequences of this will have to be borne by this administration, which you want to simplify, which you want to facilitate, and we will have to carry as citizens. I do not think that this is a favourable condition for you to be actually successful in this area. But back to the consequences for employment. I believe that the public service in Austria – and I am certainly different from many in this House – can have an important and positive role in terms of employment situation and development, because whether the service provider is a public or a private one: The question is how he is organized. This is a question which is crucial to whether he can actually and well handle the tasks he is assigned to him. Of course, it will also be necessary in the future to develop and develop certain public services, for example in the field of the environment, environmental protection, prevention in other areas, health prevention, for example, and also in the field of public safety. Of course, it is important to carry out additional tasks. Of course, it is important not only to carry out public tasks in the field of education, culture, but also to expand them. We have new tasks to deal with. We have to face up to these tasks in the field of school, education, culture and also the challenges in Europe, which you always like to talk about in your Sunday speeches. And, of course, it will be important that these tasks and challenges are also addressed by people who are still young, who can bring the necessary dynamics into this task management. I believe that you simply put wrong signs when you decide to stop staffing in the public service if, for example, you really do not allow teachers to take up new teachers. I believe that it would be necessary – but you probably have the wrong partner for that – to develop new models, new models of working time, for example in the field of school, which are suitable to actually lead to more employment, to a better division of employment among more people. I believe that this challenge you are talking about in relation to the labour market, with regard to employment, you have not been able to fulfil this law in any way with regard to public service. It is undisputed that the structural adjustment laws – these 98 laws, or at least those of the public service – in the field of public service will in some cases lead to massive restrictions and cuts on employees, that there are additional intensifications by certain other measures for the labour market as a whole, and that what you try to stimulate with accompanying measures in the structural adjustment laws, namely, consequences for employment, for example, in construction, in which you will certainly not occur. And with that, your entire employment offensive will fall on the first kilometers or meters. It will not lead to the desired results. On the other hand, in the field of public administration, they will contribute to massive loss of motivation, massive refusals to necessary structural reforms at universities, schools, but also in other areas not mentioned. In fact, we cannot afford to do that; neither should we afford it. I think it is important to maintain the motivation of public employees. This is only by making it clear to them what the prospects for public administration are in the coming years and decades. This is only by giving them a clear concept of orientation, but not by being comforted from one year to the next year – with the prospect that it will actually get worse next year than this year. This is not a perspective for public service. And I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to take this step forward. They will have our support – but certainly not that of the coalition party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22238	President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22260	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the discussion and for how it has been done so far. In particular, I would like to thank you for the direct but also indirect praise that has, in part, come from the speakers. [[Abg. Oils: Very indirect!]] However, I do not want to conceal that some of the criticisms of the various opposition parties have been a criticism which is serious, which is partly very justified and which I also share on some issues. I am aware that what we have put forward today – unlike Mr Ollinger, I believe that the structural adjustment law, if at all, will only require very few innovations – is that this is the first step in this area, but that it is a very crucial and important step. These various measures, which I believe are very balanced, which not only affect young workers, but in some areas also older and, above all, higher earnings in the public service, will for the first time allow the freezing of public service expenditure, which has been admittedly increased in recent years. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] We have already achieved for the first time in 1995 – and this, Mr Frischenschlager, is also very important to mention – a reduction in expenditure in the public service. We had budgeted around 215 billion schilling in 1995. It has actually only become around 214 billion schilling. And what we are planning for 1996 and 1997 will help to ensure that these amounts are respected. What I do not understand about the opposition's attitude is that, on the one hand, it criticises that in the last days and weeks it has been overcrowded with many laws – 98 laws – that some of the opposition parties feel compelled to read all of this, but at the same time the speakers of the opposition parties come out here and call on the small State Secretary Schlögl to present a state reform in addition, that he should present a major administrative reform, that he should present a re-codification of the federal constitution, that he should present a new funding programme, that he should submit a legalisation – and, and, and. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We love him a lot! He's taxable!]] Imagine that this would have really been successful and we would have presented it in a very short time! What a criticism of the opposition would have been! It would have been said that such elementary, so important laws would be presented by the coalition in a hush-push action! I really want to leave the church in the village and say that we have achieved a lot that we still have to do a lot. I am convinced, however, that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22327	In fact, the church remains in Purkersdorf!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22357	Purkersdorf is a very lovely city, Mr President. On the individual critical opinions: The administrative reform is very important and necessary, not a question. The administrative reform has the task of ensuring that all the measures that are now being put into effect are in practice, and that we jointly reach an effective, a slim and cost-effective state. Many measures are necessary to this end. There are some that are not enough. I am convinced that our predecessors have already done a lot. The problem is that many things have been done in the analysis, but not even started in the implementation, or if started, then stuck. My task will now be to achieve, together with all the representatives of the various parliamentary parties, that this administrative reform will now really be set in motion. [[Abg. Wabl: Even with the opposition?]] Yeah, why not? Some of the ideas of the opposition are also useful! Not all, but some are useful. It will be important and necessary that one really comes to a merciless public service mission criticism. This will be necessary at the federal level, especially in the local authorities. I believe that what we have at federal level on tasks is the most fundamental tasks of the State, namely education policy, security policy, internal and external security policy, education, training, social policy and similar areas. These are the most original tasks of the state. In my opinion, these will also have to be done by public service in the future in the interests of the public, the citizens of our state. Many of the tasks currently being done by the local authorities should, in my opinion, be very critical as to whether they are still necessary. In my opinion, many areas could be managed by private individuals much more meaningfully and cost-effectively. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's right!]] [[Abg. Wabl: For example?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The car registration, for example!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, for example, or the entire street cleaning service, to name just a few things, but also many other things. The second area, which is important, is the fact that, of course, we must have the courage to press ahead with privatisations and disseminations in the public service. Some are already included in the present Structural Adjustment Act. Some will be started in the next few weeks and months. I am convinced that these breakdowns alone will succeed in reducing the level of employment in the public service by about 10 000 to 15 000. Mr Donabauer mentioned the consultation mechanism. This is a very important and important task. It is that we are voluntarily restricting ourselves to the fact that all the laws that will be passed in the future will be very strongly examined on their financial implications and that it will not only be discussed whether these laws are really necessary, but also what consequences will be incurred for the individual local authorities. This consultation mechanism and an Article 15a Treaty with the countries and communities has already been developed and is currently under discussion between the two government parties and the countries. I am convinced that we will be able to conclude this consultation mechanism in the first half of this year. Of course, there are very different and divergent interests between the federal states and the federal government. I am convinced, however, that it will succeed in achieving this objective. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also announced that the administrative reform should not only be carried out by the Federal Government, but also that we must involve very massively the employees who work in the public service in this administrative reform, because the workers in the public service know where there is no need. With their experience, they can best help us to work together to move a lot in this area. In principle, the legal adjustment already made by my colleague, Mrs Freshenschlager, has already been completed. Negotiations with the various ministries, particularly with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, are taking place and I am convinced that the fact that there are still legal standards in Austria from the 18th century. In the last century there will be a change in the year, so that we will be in the situation that there will be no law with us, which was passed before 1945 and which is still valid. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of the state reform was necessary and important. I believe that the state reform must not be used in the areas which have been negotiated so far. This is too little, since there is still no agreement on what costs of these reforms will be taken over by which local authority. I believe that this reform must go far beyond that. There must be an open debate on which local authority will carry out what tasks in the future. I know that there are very many double-tracks, sometimes even triple-tracks, that there are many incentives that are paid by both the federal government, the countries and the local authorities. There is an urgent need for change. I am convinced that there will be very long discussions in this area, that it will not be easy to reach a common solution, but this is absolutely necessary and important. However, it will also be decisive that we not only discuss what will be in the future but also try to implement the package as it is here today. I have to reject some criticism that has been expressed here. For example, I must reject the criticism made by Mrs Preisinger, namely that we are now saving up 1 400 teachers. That's not true. On the contrary: 1 400 standard planning posts are saved. This means that there will be almost no "head savings" in the area of teachers, but only savings in overtime, in the multi-service sector. This measure was very important because it prevents a threatening teacher unemployment. If we had implemented in the field of teachers the unauthorised demand for an increase in the teaching obligation by one hour, there would have been a massive saving of almost 5,000 planning posts. – We have not done so, but we have put in place measures that are exclusively designed to significantly reduce the additional services. Let me give you an example: In the case of compulsory school teachers, primary, secondary and secondary school teachers, we currently have about 75 000 planning posts, and with the measures we are setting up, only 12 planning posts are saved, and that is very, very little. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Little!]] It is therefore not true of criticism. Similarly, it is not about crossing the lawn mower with the teachers of the evening school, but about achieving justice for all workers in the teacher sector. It is not to be seen that an AHS professor is paid for these hours 1 : 1 on Saturday morning, but a school teacher who teaches on Saturday morning is paid for five hours for three hours. We've changed that. But this is not a driving force with the lawn mower, but the making of justice. The current regulation has also been highly criticised within the teachership, and there is a great deal of support for this measure. Another point is that if a teacher makes only half of his teaching obligation for illness reasons, he has been given 100 percent. This is simply an injustice to other groups of people. That's what we've changed. If the teacher does half in this case, he gets 75 percent; it is already a privilege, but even better than 100 percent. Therefore, I do not understand the criticism of the Freedom Party of this measure – nor where this regulation only lasted for two years and the person was automatically retired after the two years when he wanted it. This was a privilege which I think was urgently abolished, and we have now done so with this reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Criticism has also come with regard to the massive increase in planning posts. – It is true: In recent years, the number of planning sites has been substantially increased. We have now put in place decisive measures, and at the end of 1997, there will not be 236,000 employees in the public service, as has been said by Mr Frischenschlager, but only 229,000. This is very, very important and good. It is crucial that not only the Indians, but also the chiefs, were saved. We have made a great effort to make the highly-doped and less-doped posts quite fair according to a reasonable... [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Does the Minister of Science know this too?]] Why shouldn't he know? This has been done in close agreement with the Minister of Science, and the Minister of Science has had to take a great deal of criticism of the fact that he has carried out these measures. On the question of the amount of living, I can say that we naturally want and need to make changes in this area – that is urgently necessary, especially because the initial salaries in the public service are still very bad. There should therefore be a new employment law in the Federal Service, which takes account of this abuse and contributes to the fact that there are higher initial salaries. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The adjustments made in this area are important in order to reduce costs in the public service in some way. These are adaptations which are socially balanced, which all groups meet – including the different generations, which are in the public sector. Services are employed – which are not directed against employees in the public service, but are aimed at making the public service attractive together with public servants.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22480	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karlsson. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22501	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the comments made by the honourable Member, Mr Freshenschlager, and to say: It is relatively easy to make yourself here and say: Do something now, you haven't done anything in the last few years! I would therefore like to illustrate the magnitude of the tasks ahead of us regarding the administration in the public service, a little humorous with a historical quote from Anton Kuh, which sets the following scene: In 1913, a Heurigenlokal in Vienna, at the counter stands a man who explains: There will be no more emperors, there will be a border between Vienna and Prussia, the Egyptian will be made from roßknödeln, a piece of bread will cost 2,000 crowns and so on and so on. The man came to ruin, a post-Offizial who wanted to make the Randal a cozy end, interrupted him with the question: And what about the officials? The speaker looked at him, drank a swallow, looked at him again, and said to a sigh, They'll stay! – End of the quote. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Let us be glad that we have the officials!]] I believe that this is a characteristic of the size of the task, but I do not want to say that the continuity of the administration does not have anything good either. For example, last week, in a debate with Polish parliamentarians and Commissioner Fischler, we were able to point out that there, where Austria was, the continuity of the book system and the cataclysm is very likely to be a favourable basis for the possibility of reforms within the meaning of the EU approach to these countries. So it's got something good to do. The word "administrative reform" is also spoken very easily. In reality, Mr Schlögl, the Secretary of State, said this, is about really tiny, small steps that must be implemented step by step. If you see the size of these tasks, you can only congratulate the Secretary of State on what has now been achieved by this Structural Adjustment Act. The administrative reform is an example that concerns us only now: We all have recently come back here or have been re-entered and praised and have filled out a package of forms, some of us for the x-th time, with the question to be asked: Should the National Council President, if I put an employee instead, know when I was born, where I live, postal code and telephone number, or is that just a form that is simply dragged on? It's not enough if it says: Name, political group and signature? – This is a small thing, a profit, but that sums up in millions of waste hours of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] On another point of the Structural Adjustment Act, I would also like to say a few words about the promotion of parties and the promotion of political academies. These were cut by 10 per cent, and it was also announced that a valorization of the amounts should be reintroduced only in 1998. It is always very popular for this side of the house to say: [[to the liberals]] Get away with the state party promotions! or: Let's cut them to half! – or whatever demands come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] That sounds quite good, but I think that we should clearly confess to the promotion of the parties. It is the political parties that are the cornerstone of our parliamentary democratic system. And it is dual-use, as you say, Mr Kiss, when they say on the one hand: If we save them, that's nothing! On the other hand, however, in the absence of our own, as was the case with the 30 million schillings, the employment of the courts of each grotesque is required. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Last but not least, an area with the current structural adjustment... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Yes, the reform in your movement is such that the handler Meischberger has been replaced by the social fund user Schweitzer. That's what happened in your party now. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kiss.]] A last chapter, not with this... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How much have you missed?]] So I don't give anything into a social fund, and I'll get it out of me like you do in Burgenland. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Freeman: You'll take it right away!]] Secondly, To boast with donations given to social institutions, I find myself as the fishest.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22599	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please have a different expression.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22626	I'm sorry, but where I come from, you're unfortunately going to be a little dialectic in the excitement. I am sorry, Mr President. Finally, The area that we do not take into account in this Structural Adjustment Act, but which is important to me for the structure in the public service, which has been discussed due to a very different event, is the promotion of women in the public service. In Austria we have a very good federal equal treatment law that requires women's promotion plans. And for the first time, they have demonstrated clearly how it and how badly it has been ordered in public service for the many talented women who exist there. The ECJ judgment is now taken by some as a pretext, so to speak, to pour out the child with the bath and say: Getting away with the women's promotion plans, that doesn't do anything anyway, nothing will go on, and that's not EU-compliant! This has made the discussion a little too easy. I am firmly convinced that the Women's Promotion Plans and the Federal Equality Act can remain in such a way that discussion in this area must continue and continue within the European framework, and that it is now time for the many talented and qualified women we have in the public service to obtain the opportunities and opportunities they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22665	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22686	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In an old song it says: "Everything is new to May," and although we are still looking forward to the wondrous month, I was trying to believe that when I heard the first part of Mrs Karlsson's speech here. In the first part of your speech, she has been quite moderate and has even quoted the old coffee house literate Anton Kuh. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: I'm always moderate!]] However, it has stoked her oats, and she has then registered a complaint from the President – as I mean: rightly. The noble way of expression, which is meant to appear, has been replaced very quickly by a terminology such as "fies" et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen! Where the handrailers are sitting in this Republic, we know: Here in the left half of the empire! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Meischberger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Meischberger – bar at hand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Krüger! Bar on the handle!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Khol! In Tyrol, you are very upset at the National Council elections: The voters have come to you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bar at hand! Meischberger – bar at hand! 3 million schilling bar on hand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If a representative of a government party, like Mr Schlögl, says that the great opposition is in some way exaggerating the "little castle" with its call for an administrative reform, this may be an unusual modesty for a representative of a government party, but I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this modesty, which is shown here, is nothing but a well-calculated substatement. Because, Mr State Secretary, you are at the Federal Chancellor's Office State Secretary and there you have access to the entire apparatus of the Federal Government: from the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office to the coordination competences of the Federal Chancellor's Office, access or service by all ministries. It is an old demand of the Freedom Party – I would like to renew it at this point; and true parliamentaryism can only take place then – that the opposition or the entire High House, all Members of this House, have a legislative service here in Parliament, which can provide legal paroli to the official. Ladies and gentlemen! Never before in the history of the House has it become so obvious which farce of parliamentarianism can come to pass, than now, because two budgets are being whipped by the committees in a hush-fush procedure with 98 laws and a number of constitutional provisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is nothing but a farce, it is unworthy of a pluralist democracy. We have here been accused of a parliamentary sham democracy by this kind of lawmaking. With regard to what is happening in connection with the many constitutional changes, one can only speak of a constitutional vandalism. It has been said by prominent judges of the courts of public law that there is even a suspicion of an overall change in the Constitution, since a number of individual laws here are raised in constitutional order to immunise them against the jurisdiction of the court of public law. Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of expenditure in the public service is also known to affect the field of science. The measures in this area include a reduction in the amount of contract redundancies and a reduction in the compensation for exams. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen where these apparently subordinate measures can lead: to a targeting of universities of large-scale nature throughout Austria, to an alliance of students, to academic medium-sized buildings and university professors. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that one aspect is clearly lacking in the debate on savings in science. The University of Vienna announces that the targeting of universities will continue until next Monday. We already have in mid-April – at the end of April on next Monday – and there are only a few weeks to complete the semester. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is no question at all that at least one third of all students in Austria – that is about 80 000 – will lose the semester. This is the real responsibility that I urge here, including you, Mr State Secretary, and, of course, the Minister of Science who is not present today, namely the responsibility not only to save money through short-term liquidity measures, but also to bring it in when these measures are at the expense of the coming generations. That's the decisive thing. Remember that the 80 000 students who lose the semester have to take a reduction in lifetime by half a year. What does that mean? This means that 80 000 students will have a loss of the later gross domestic product to the extent of saying and writing 40 billion schilling. Because an academic will have an average half-yearly income of around 500 000 s; that is, I think, quite a serious calculation. If these 500 000 S are multiplied by 80 000 students, whose lifetime is reduced by the strikes, then an economic consequential damage of 40 billion schillings occurs. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the demonstrations in the university area were used by various left-wing groups at the universities to form a new left-wing alternative, as expressed by the staff member of the Austrian high school in the programme "The Matter". That's the very decisive thing. It was no longer about the subject matter. The demonstrations were misused by the traffic lights in the high school area to serve as a vehicle for new left utopia. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Together with Communists and Marxists!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Yes, this is a great philosophy, Mr. Colleague. You are the education spokesperson of your party, and it would be a good thing for you if you had made a clear statement here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is the truth!]] Instead, you can easily lean back in your double official chair and polemize here inaccurately. That's the truth. What do you have to offer? – What was offered here is the arrogance shown here – including in the negotiations – symptomatic. I am not surprised when, for example, the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine says that the Minister of Science has shown an arrogance instead of negotiation. The same arrogance is demonstrated here in the House. One leans back comfortably and polemises unbelievably. Ladies and gentlemen! This type of budget consultation, the degradation of Parliament and the proposed committees to a facade parliamentarianism is a symptom of the legislative process. Finally, I would like to read a statement from the Austrian lawyer. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the lawyer is very well embedded in this republic – you are careful, considerate et cetera. I therefore appreciate the fact that a stand representative, who is normally only very moderate, gives an opinion on the structural adjustment laws in the following form – I quote: The Austrian Bar Association firmly rejects the planned expenditure-related projects and will inform the public with all the means available – now, Mr. Niederwieser, you will be careful, because it is particularly true of your group – in which reckless manner fundamental rules of the federal constitution are not only bypassed but removed. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Don't you have your own opinion? I would have liked to hear your opinion!]] This should give you some thought, Mr Niederwieser, before you leave unwholesome calls out of the pile here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22865	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22887	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, As we're about 3 today. 30 o'clock depending on the sensitivity "Good morning!" or "Good night!" If we wish to leave the house, we are sure to meet staff members who are, to a large extent, also public servants in this house. Some faces were to look at the streets of the long night – and also the knowledge of who owes it that it took so long. But I would like to take the opportunity of expressing my warm thanks to those who work together in this House in the early hours of the morning. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The public officials may have recognized the need for a cash-striking, a cash-striking, which was ultimately initiated by Wolfgang Schüssel, through various entrances to the central institutions, budget sections and the Ministry of Finance much earlier than some politicians. In addition to other remarkable sentences in his budget speech, Federal Minister Klima has made a particularly clear statement for me, namely that a deficit itself is not an appropriate instrument to create jobs. This is a complete turnaround of political evaluation, a philosophy characterized by the person Bruno Kreisky. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite these findings and the fact that the head of the Economic Research Institute, Professor Kramer, has stated at a press hour that the public service is not responsible for the budget situation, the public servants have nevertheless come into negotiations with the service provider and have taken joint action on the task of covering public service expenditure for 1995. In four major areas: in a very, very moderate wage round, in the saving of planning positions and overtime and in measures to increase the actual retirement age, compromises have been reached. Mrs. Dr. Preisinger! I can offer you a conversation about the value of a teacher overtime: It is no less valuable, but the basis of calculation is quite simply different. While previously calculated in months, the individual day is now charged. The colleague accepted this solution. Dr. Frischenschlager is not here, unfortunately. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We will guide him!]] I would like to thank you very much for this transport of my statements. The public administration and the public service as a whole – I think Professor Freisenschlager would also be my opinion – offer a wide range of services. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Professor is too much!]] Too much of the honor – good! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out that the response to increasingly tighter budgets and increasingly reduced job plans means job reform. It also concerns the trade union and public servants to initiate a process of change by putting the effectiveness in the foreground, because one cannot assume that public servants are happy to do a job that will eventually become a macular. – Here you will also find the full support of the stand representation when it comes to closer to citizens and more appropriate administration. If the Secretary of State meant that the law was also to be applied, I am of his opinion; however, if we should do away with everything that was invented before 1800, I do not know, because at least we should retain the general compulsory education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are also dealing with other income trends, as early as June of last year. As far as the contractors of the contract, the Commissioner for Oillingers, are concerned, I must say: I know many cases of contract staff. About one third of the Federal staffing costs are colleagues in the contract staffing relationship, who do not want to be pragmatized at all because their active income processes are, of course, much better than those under the Wage Law 1956. The accusation that we have not done anything for the younger colleagues in the past goes empty if we look at the rift between initial and final references in the last 15 years. The public service relationship – commonly placed as a Pragmatization to the prranger – is based on our federal constitution. If you confess to this, you need a corps of employees representing the rule of law, but they also have, in the exercise of their work and responsibility, the elbow freedom that protects them from party political indoctrination. Socio-economics, ladies and gentlemen, as she asks my colleague, is a matter of course for me: simply talking together, overcoming prejudices in order to come to a common responsible action. If he implies that trade unions only wall and block off and therefore nothing went on, then I must say to him: Trade unions are there in their self-understanding to secure social standards. They are also in a position to respond to framework conditions and to reach reasonable compromises in conversation with the service provider. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That you are for that is clear anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Motivation – also for the public service, Dr. Graf – is a very essential operational psychological element. We must not allow it to lead to a spiritual adoption of the employees of the public service. Reform and spiritual freshness are not a question of birth certificate – this is what I would like to write to colleagues in the main book of oillingers and fresheners.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22971	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e22992	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1970, a well-known Austrian industrial company had 32 percent of its total workforce in administration and central areas. The same company still had 21 percent of employees in these areas in 1990. In these 20 years, turnover has increased from 400 million to around 10 billion, many new business areas have been opened up, numerous new markets have been processed, and the overall requirements have increased accordingly for management as well as for staff. Of those in 1970 who were still active in 1990, only 20 percent had the job they had in 1970, from a geographical point of view. I am not talking about the fact that these jobs have changed from content and requirements. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this development can only be explained by the fact that it required market and competition and that it was obliged to adapt to these requirements. When it became apparent in 1994 that the industry and therefore the enterprise will face serious economic difficulties and have to take appropriate measures to maintain competitiveness, the following happened: Every single job was evaluated, there were corresponding consequences in the structure and in the organization, but there was also something: There were voluntary wage and salary exemptions of 5 percent for the batches under the management of 10 percent in management, and of 15 percent for the board. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the answer of this undertaking to rising economic difficulties. Here, Mr State Secretary, you have your big problem: You do not have the opportunity to measure objective performance in the public service – we know that – and you simply lack the means of printing that an undertaking has by the development of profits and revenues, so to speak, automatically. But this, Mr State Secretary, does not free you from dealing with these issues in so far as you also have to compare the dimensions. They have the exact opposite effect in public service in these 20 years: You notice an increasing number of officials – in case of increased demands, I admit, but that is also the case there – you have exploding costs, and that is the opposite. I believe that when we talk about the feasibility and when we discuss what is acceptable to officials in the public service, that must be mentioned. These measures and these reorganisations, this structural change, are not welcome for those concerned, not a priority welcome, they are cuts in their private life area, which are partly not only unpleasant but painful: Vulnerability, job change, separation from the family – ladies and gentlemen, no one likes it! Not only the public officials, but also employees in the competition industry! If today we are discussing the fact that we have moved at least a little bit in our approach, Mr State Secretary – this compliment has been made to you many times – then the difference is still so great that I have to say: Mr State Secretary! For ten years, you still have to put on juice and strength – what you will undoubtedly do – and then you will not succeed. But believe me: If you complain today about what you should do, then because we consider you to be a taxable young man, who may also be able to do so. However, Mr State Secretary, you will have to face a major challenge even more than in the past: This "match" with Mr. Dohr – to such a one it was at least publicly stylized – was, as it were, one where the smallest common denominator was recognizable and the opposites at least to the outside were not penetrated. [[Abg. Leikam: Good!]] But if you don't provoke these contrasts, if you don't get involved, then While you are slowing down development, you will not come to a reconstruction of the state, you will not come to an end to Pragmatization, you will not get the protection of relocation, and then you will not have all the conditions that you need to set up an efficient administration in that country. You, Mr State Secretary, and all of us here in the House know that it is no longer about the interests of the employees alone, but it is about party political interests, about trade union interests, and this is about the interests of power. And if we can finally uncouple the public service problem and the content argument is in the foreground, then we may also be moving forward. I'd like you to.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23030	Mrs Dr. Brinek has now been reported to the House. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23051	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With the Structural Adjustment Act, we also regulate certain laws, issues in the field of universities. The universities have come into the conversation in recent days on their own and on the media reception anyway. We should observe this movement with care and attention. Every superlative comment, whatever it comes from, is just as damaging as any naïve testimony of solidarity. The assessment of the situation is disfficulty, and this inconsistency is shown by the different types of media that are presented in a different way. The changes in chapter BKA refer, for example, to a university field that looks different in Innsbruck than in Vienna and Leoben. Vienna itself, as the largest university location, knows sharp differences. For example, external readers perform a sector of teaching in Innsbruck for the higher honor, for the jewellery of the business card for free, so in the Vienna university room entire families live, generations of teaching, free reading and remuneration. That is to say, in general, to try to solve the remuneration issue as it was originally discussed, it is not possible, of course, because it is not fair. Therefore, we must quickly come to other forms of problem-solving. A similar difference is the assessment of what savings can be made in the area of the remuneration of examination activities. The Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Fundamental and Integrative Sciences in Vienna will take a different position than the Academy of Fine Arts and the University of Applied Arts. If you ask Professor Frohner of the Applied, he will say: what extra charge of examination activities? When she asks Professor Rollett who holds her main lecture in psychology – equipped with a relative monopoly – she will say: This is a performance-related reward. I need this examination fee. Or another point: The change from the once very training-oriented University of World Trade to a university with the task of also researching the character of Universitas has led to improvisations with the rapid growth of the number of students. If the WU had perhaps had a different budgetary right, more autonomy, one could have gone more solid, more transparent ways than the current ones that have led to this uncertain problem. So I understand every single assessment, every call for help from the universities. It is only from these individual assessments that no general policy action can be derived. What, then, is necessary? I have six points to make: First: The rapid collection of the necessary data as a basis for successful service and remuneration negotiations. This is just as important to Parliament as it is to the government and the negotiators on the side of the trade union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Structural adjustment work at legal level also needs structural adjustment work in the field of the department. We know that the area of transport is also assigned to the scientific community. There are two research sections, two research section heads, and we are very aware of the dangers of parallelity and competition. Here too, there is a need for action, which must be clarified, from our side as well as from the universities, for university research to remain in the field of the university, to take its course there, because there is also the guidance for research. Third point: Based on the reformed ministerial structure, the government should clarify which promised privatisation proceeds are to be allocated to the non-university research institutions, such as the Academy of Sciences. I hear promises everywhere: from privatisation. Fourth: In order to clarify this question, there is no need for a new body to be set up. Two university teachers have recently joined the public and have wished for a university council. The new university board is well able to set priority standards. In addition, fifth: The proposed expenditure on science and scientific education is quite respectable in the European comparison. The discussion in recent days has also mediated this. The development of expenditure dynamics can best be discussed on the ground, therefore: rapid implementation of the 1993 UO, amendment of the budgetary right, i.e. more flexibility! And finally, six: If we want to strengthen the relationship between science / research / education policy on the one hand and economic policy on the other, not only in Sunday's speeches, there must be clear statements from the government on the priorities of the next years, i.e. statements on the sharing of tasks between the individual institutions, on which to close them – think of Seibersdorf, Arsenal and others. It must be concluded with "sloppy" parallel institutions, created in the wild, which pay tribute to the falsely understood competition and competition principle. I conclude and believe that the development and improvement of the culture of discussion between universities, government and Parliament can be based on these points, but they are only a beginning. Such a difficult dialogue requires patience and endurance from all sides. We'd like to be ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23123	The next speaker is Mr Lammer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23145	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The public service is currently subject to a wide range of attacks. The coalition parties see it only as a potential for savings, so that certain dubious budget targets can be achieved. Some political statements give the impression that the public service is guilty of the financial disaster of the federal government and that the servants are the great earners of the nation. This is in favour of some media which do not go far enough and which, referring to the alleged area of protection, stimulate the mood against the public service. Hans Rauscher, for example, asks in the "Kurier" of the 13th century. Having regard to the alleged privileged pension right of officials: Is this not a danger to social peace? High house! The officials of the public service are constantly being criticized, particularly in connection with the Federal Staff expenditure, the official's pensions and the supposed privileges. However, if we look at the officials of the public service objectively, we must, I believe, acknowledge that they are certainly most likely to bring them into this administration and that an administration without the officials of the public service is not at all possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not the official who is responsible for this budget disaster, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the one party, who, because of your government activity, decide one law after another, without considering how many officials are necessary for the administration of this administration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In doing so, you have made it possible, in accordance with the laws and regulations adopted, for more and more officials to be admitted. And today, you notice, it's too many, and ask why it's come to pass. If we look through the documents of this budget, it must be noted that the savings now to be decided on are particularly affected by the lower level of public service. State Secretary Schlögl already stated in the Committee that he would have been happy if the Supreme Institutions had participated in it. On the question of whether public servants are privileged, the 1989 report on the social situation of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which clearly states with regard to comparable staff, states that higher pensions in public service, higher incomes in the private sector – considering the income of living – in most cases do not compensate. In recent times, public servants have been willing to take up significant deterioration in their service rights as a contribution to the savings efforts of the Federal Government, such as job cuts, reductions in overtime, reductions in rewards, deterioration in anniversary allowances, increase in pension contributions, introduction of a pension scheme contribution, extension of the duration of the salary agreement until 31. 3rd. 1996. Nevertheless, public service is hit again by the load package of the Federal Government. This will continue the policy that denotifies public servants as privileged and scapegoats and demands of them disproportionate victims. This leads not least to the reduction of the motivation and willingness of officials to do so. Public servants are not only burdened by the tax and family measures they take as taxpayers and family members as well as all other Austrian citizens, but also by a special civil servants' tax package. No-one round for 1996 and 1997 with a one-time payment in 1996 amounting to 2 700 S and a one-time payment in 1997 of 3,600 S, further significant planned savings – according to State Secretary Schlögl, approximately 11 000 officials and planning posts are saved – will be stopped, so that in important areas urgent re-occupied will no longer be possible, further reductions in overtime remuneration, reductions in rewards of about 50 percent, further deterioration in anniversary expenses, reduction in early pensions, where the question is open and to be clarified, to what extent and until when a catalogue of occupational diseases can be created for public officials in the special areas, and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's not enough. The Federal Government intends further significant deterioration: The introduction of a conversion period in the calculation of pensions, transition to ASVG pension law, suspension of biennials, implementation of a Pragmatisation stop, introduction of retirement provisions. While there is a demand for unreasonable financial victims for public servants, those responsible do not think of implementing the structural reforms which have been pending for decades. Our Freemans stand for the following objectives: We want a powerful administration. We want performance to be worth it. We want self-confident employees. We want a real administrative reform. We want to take part in this administrative reform. We want a comprehensive red tape reduction. We want a slim administration, and we want a competitive administration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems that the Federal Government is not courageous or capable of finally embarking on a comprehensive administrative reform, and instead, it is trying to keep public servants to reach its dubious savings goal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals therefore call on the Federal Government to finally implement the following reforms: Summary of ministries in terms of matters, adjustment of competence, elimination of multiple payments, restriction of the laws and regulations, creation of a right of service and remuneration, provision of part-time work, reduction of hierarchies, streamlining of organisation, introduction of a cost account in the administration, privatisation of tasks which must not necessarily be concerned by the State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, public officials are no longer willing to make unilateral further sacrifices before genuine reforms are carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. We liberties oppose the fact that the Federation as a service provider abuses the trust of public servants by continually intervening in the right of employment and remuneration unilaterally. We liberals oppose the fact that the politicians continue to stamp public servants for the state of federal finances. We liberals oppose the constant deterioration of the income situation of public servants. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that once again you will seriously deal with this issue in order to understand the fears and also the concern of the public servants of our state. Only then will it be possible to achieve a targeted and high-quality result.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23251	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23272	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the Structural Adjustment Act, the Federal Chancellery and the Public Service, a facet is also to be introduced which concerns me personally and the minorities in that country, all that is reached by the ethnic groups. It is true that this Structural Adjustment Act benefits minorities. It is true that the ethnic groups are being promoted and the majority in that country know that there is a need to force diversity in order to preserve this Austria in its own way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since yesterday and also since today, we can pursue what the Freedom Party has said, what the Liberals and the Greens have said. By the way, the Greens are not even present in trace elements. For half an hour there has been no green Members attending this debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What has Mrs Stoisits achieved for an election result? You know that?]] Yeah, right. 1.2% in your home town of Stinatz. So if you hear what the opposition has said in these last two days, and if you know what the Federal Government, SPÖ and ÖVP do for minorities in particular, you can say with pride as a member of a minority – I am a member of the Hungarian minority –: I am pleased that these 1996 and 1997 budgets are more being done than ever in the past. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And it can also be proved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] Yes, I take note of that too, Mr Freshenschlager. But you can also put it in numbers, and you can prove it. 7 years ago, when I came to this Parliament, for example, the approach for the ethnic groups has been about 4 million schillings a year. We all know that this amount has now increased to 13 times. This is certainly not astronomical yet, but 52.7 million schillings a year for the Slovenian population, for the Croatian, for the Hungarian, for Czech, for Roma and Sinti, which can be seen, which are also not to be disputed from a cruel opposition. Please note! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We know that this federal government is showing a very, very alert sensorium in the implementation of the People's Group Law. We know that there are problems with minorities in this country. But we are ready to talk to the minorities. We are willing to address minorities, and the minorities feel it. Something has changed climate in this country. It has changed something to benefit minorities, to the benefit of those who need the special protection of the majority. I say this quite consciously, because I am pleased that many of these minorities in this country, who bear political responsibility, in the federal government, in the countries, are doing decisive things. This is also to be said here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the part of the Greens – they have not been able to articulate, how should they be, since they are not even physically present? – is kept in the meeting: This federal government is not doing enough. It does not do anything structurally with regard to minorities, for example with regard to the advisory committees. It does not do anything about the public service as far as the favoring of those candidates for the public service is concerned, the minority languages speak. She is unable to give the minorities the feeling that we are completely specific to you and your concerns. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] We of the ÖVP are those who have already demonstrated in the past that it is a matter of our self-confidence, of our identity, of being there for minorities. We will prove it now, and we will keep it that way in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The situation of official languages in Burgenland is very interesting. Croatia and Hungary, but also Roma and Sinti more and more feel that in the minority communities in which these languages are spoken, the mayors who are prepared to go to the respective minority, extend the service offer in a way that the individual can say, yes, I can articulate myself in my language, I have a contact person in the respective community. For this the Federal Government makes decisive, and with these means it also creates, among other things, the material substructure, so that precisely this self-confidence, this identity can grow. I am confident that we will continue to do something for minorities in the future, when the common foreign and security policy is in place, so that the majority in this country feel that the minority lives with the majority in this beautiful Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23353	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Peter. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23374	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We politicians hide in the impenetrable contact of public servants. There is a need to talk about this at this point. The payment by us politicians – you hear and marvel – is based on the official schedule, which is probably the most inappropriate scheme that can be found for the remuneration of politicians. This scheme is masked by the indifference, is garnished by biennial jumps, by pension claims in the truest sense of the word, and the whole thing is then enriched for us politicians by discharges and by multiple references from several political activities. In reality, we have made a beautiful decision, and then we wonder that these privileges, which the politicians have taken out, are criticized. I will present this to you on the example of our President-in-Office, because he is of course and rightly the best-earner. A very thin salary of 940 000 S per year is enriched by official allowances. So you get 1.8 million. Then there is the replacement, which means that we are already at 2.6 million schilling. If you add the distance allowances, there will be a lot of 2.7 to 2.8 million schilling. But now it depends on how long it lasts on his chair up there, because the longer he sticks to it, the more random the whole thing becomes – and with us it's the same. After a year, his salary is just 2.7 or 2.8 million schilling. But if he is a really tough president, he comes to 3.3 to 3.4 million schilling for exactly the same activity – only by having washed the bottom of his pants on his chair for a long time and had to look after us for longer. If someone makes the record of 21 years of doing this job, he comes to 4 to 4.2 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The system by which we politicians in Austria are rewarded is unsustainable. It includes a pension claim, which in many cases is higher in its cash value than the reference of us political mandates during the active period. To an increasing extent, we are experiencing a loss of reality of political mandates – and that is quite exciting –: The former high-ranking ÖVP politician Kohlmaier lets us know: Whoever is a politician can only advise any ambitious young person to leave his fingers behind and earn his money elsewhere, where he remains free from indifferences and indifferences. Dear Mr. Kohlmaier! 200 000 S Pension is available throughout Austria only for politicians and not for anyone else. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] There is virtually no free service contract with a pension of 200 000 S. Mrs. Fekter, where else is there? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: In the state lights!]] In the nationalized industry, says Dr. Fekter. I thank you for the introduction. Mr Kohlmaier receives over 200 000 s per month from two pensions, and this is fourteen times more! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's stay in reality! This is ultimately a blow in the face for every normal Austrian, who can get a top cover of 31,000 S gross after the ASVG. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let us take the example of Mrs. Smejkal from SPÖ. They cannot explain to anyone that a vice-bourgeois champion, who instead of going to the old age pension, wants to be transported by the Vice-Chairman as chairman of the Vienna Landtag, for this route of five meters, two steps higher than 1.8 million schilling waste disposal. Ladies and gentlemen! It's all about us, all the parties. It is about the reputation of our politicians, it is about how we get our pay and how we present ourselves in the public. The Secretary of State has already taken a first step and explained how it is handled when a public servant goes into politics. On behalf of my group, I should like to make a further amendment to this effect, which aims to ensure that the service provider, the public authority, a servicer who has gone into politics and who has, by his own initiative, chosen the way of retirement change, can re-enter when he has finished this political career. [[Quoted print version removed]] What's this about? It is not about criticism of an unsustainable state, but about making it better. We Liberals have put together with the management consultants of Neumann Consulting and asked: What would be reasonable? We have assumed that politicians are the most independent professionals there are. We are not bound by wisdom, no one, except our conscience and our voters. We are therefore a classic freelancer. All of you, who voted in favour of constitutional amendments last night, must know that he is solely responsible for this. A little too cheap will be to talk about club pressure. So we politicians are self-responsible, so be it also as far as our remuneration is concerned, we are classic freelances. So you don't misunderstand me. I recognize that we are paying politicians well in this country, otherwise we will either have no good politicians or we will corrupt them. There should be a decent payment which is sufficient for politicians to be able to live on it very well, but it must be a clear, comprehensible fee of self-employed, of freelances who, of course, make their tax declaration at the end of the year. I warn you to pay politicians for how old they are, how long they've been sitting in here, because they're not necessarily getting better. It is also not always good for young politicians, but also the old ones are not necessarily good. I mean, it doesn't make any sense at all to provide for biennial jumps, and I also warn politicians to pay for performance or even for parliamentary speeches, because then the session would have taken up to 5 a.m. yesterday. So there should be only one fee, even if someone has several political functions. That's what he's supposed to do, why not? But he gets only one fee, then the multiple functions will stop relatively fast. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is obvious to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we politicians do not need a settlement. We should get a high, decent honor twelve times a year. Of course, only 12 times, Mr Feurstein, the year has only 12 months. – But there is no doubt that a settlement is not necessary, and the pension provision that the state should and must offer to us is, of course, based on the ASVG. I believe that for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the President of the National Council, the members of the Federal Council are fully satisfied with an ASVG-pension. Because if we get high fees, we are of course also able to afford a private pension insurance. Pension insurance with ASVG is intended to ensure that no political mandate falls into poverty after leaving the groundless. But those who get 31,000 S gross after the ASVG cannot explain to me that they fall into poverty. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we should set the same level as we do in the case of savings packages for our people, with our voters. I, of course, recognize the difference between political salaries. A person who comes from Vorarlberg to carry out this post must receive a higher compensation than someone from Vienna. We don't need any supplements, and we can limit service weights. I consider myself to be service balances, service balances are important because they give a minister the opportunity to carry out his task better. But many of us could resort to driving without causing great costs with service weights. [[Abg. Leikam: Which one of us has service weights?]] [[Further violent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The President of the National Council has a van, dear friends. All three national council presidents each have one. - I don't know what's so upset you. Was right That's how you're going, dear friends? If you don't have one, make sure you don't. [[Further violent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The clubmen also have one. It's amazing how excited you are once we talk about your privileges. If we do not always talk about the privileges of the Austrian population, we are talking about yours! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You don't have a van, I'll confirm. But no excitement, ladies and gentlemen! We therefore need a manageable arrangement for our honours, which must be decent and high, so that there is decent and skilled politicians. Everyone can then buy around ten schillings an octav booklet in the trafic, where this is very accurate, and thus know what a politician, a politician, deserves, and thus the eternal envy that the liberal group so much likes to play, has ended once and for all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop being stupid!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Policymakers are self-responsible mandates and should be a model for the population. We'll have to start with saving up. A clear commitment to high active income, but away with cash values of pensions that reach a height of up to 20, yes 24 million schilling! These are the things that are further desavouring and further damaging the professional status of politicians in the population, in so far as they can be damaged at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Schlögl has promised to devote himself to this question. I hope he goes far beyond the previous model, has the courage to really see the politician as a freelancer and to get him out of the official's schedule in all areas. I am pleased that Mr President-in-Office of the Council Neisser within the Austrian People's Party is also working on it as chairman of an appropriate working group within the ÖVP. If we have the courage, ladies and gentlemen, and we resolve ourselves from the brunt of civil service rights, we become freelances, we become self-employed, for that is what we are politicians in reality!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23538	The one by the honourable Member Mag. Peter's proposed amendment is sufficiently supported. It shall be included in the negotiations. As the last speaker on this point, the honourable Member has the power to speak. Dr. Grollitsch reported. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23562	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer said, knocking on the shoulder, that the preparation for these structural adjustment laws was sufficient and good. I can inform him of a brief letter from the Office of the Steiermärkische Landesgebung to the Federal Chancellery concerning civil service law, salary law, contract law: "The deadline for the opinion is so short that a serious consultation with the draft cannot be expected. This procedure represents an affront towards the countries, especially since the Federal Government has carried out a review period of six weeks in the framework of the proceedings under Article 98 of the Federal Treaty Act. Although such long periods of time cannot always be observed in urgent cases, a minimum period of two weeks must be regarded as absolutely necessary, the request of the Federal Government should not be merely alibiding." Alibihandlung – yes, of course, what else should it be if we make assessment periods of not even a week available on this very existential topic? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is called the office of the state government "Alibihandel" yesterday, Dr. Kier aptly described "Löschwasserbewerbung", "Löschwasseraktion". It burns the roof chair, it's what he meant, and you get water of fire in all hurry. But, Dr. Kier, it doesn't just burn the roof chair! That the hat's burning, we've told you often enough. In the course of the budget debates, there has often been enough reference to the need for savings in this area. But only now, where the foundation began to swell, a threshold fire was detected, there were hectic money acquisition actions. This has been referred to several times, and that is true. It was passed over to all, including more than 17 992 public officials in the university and higher education sectors. I have done so with a few sentences, as they have so far been lacking in the debate. There are 17 992 disappointed, discouraged professors, assistants, scientific and non-scientific staff at the High Schools due to the events of the last weeks. If something positive can be read out of the hectic robbery, then perhaps a certain solidarity effect on universities, then the fact that it was finally realized that structural measures are really necessary. A protest committee for the saving of research and teaching at Austrian universities has spontaneously come together, and that means the process of the ministries: We have not been informed or late on the measures provided for in the special tax package for universities and universities. Our employers, the ministries, are opposed to the workers. They also try to play the individual groups against each other at universities and universities. The Ministry decrees profound structural changes without a well-founded analysis of the state of the situation. The fact that structural measures with the savings package are not justified is intended to make these measures permanent in the long term. You've done the same thing: They have tenderly intervened on quiet paws and have claimed – the Federal Minister has said so – that it is primarily a matter of equalizing injustices. The non-remunerated and the reclaimed teaching assignment for the same activity are paid differently, and only to compensate for this, 300 million have been collected from the members of the universities. What was so unjust? The non-remunerated teaching assignment was then set up for his teaching activities for the university member, for the assistant for his college salary. The revitalized apprenticeship was intended for the practical proximity of external training. In the course of this post-negotiation, a solution has now been found which is totally at the disadvantage of external teaching contracts. It will reduce the practical nature of training and the quality of training. This will happen exactly where your science minister wanted to go with his new study law. Quality improvement and reduction – with these measures you are in addition, believe me! The Rescue Committee calls on the union. I have here called from the "GÖD" original quotations of Mr. Dohr, the posthumous, that is, after the lacing of this package, after long-standing reforms and, among other things, also by itself: In the event that no satisfactory outcome will be achieved by mid-April, our Federal section for higher education teachers has decided that further action and strikes will be prepared. – So posthumously, they announced strikes. What else does Mr Dohr say? . We demand that the planned job cuts be immediately suspended. In the present situation, this would certainly lead to a further deepening of the situation which has already been stressed. More and more students, less and less staff – this bill can't go on. – How true, Mr Dohr, how true! But what is he doing best in this interview in his own newspaper? He is asked: After such external interventions, how will one actually cope with the autonomy of the university? Mr. Dohr says: This de facto limited autonomy sometimes makes things quite complicated. We'd rather get involved with the universities only then, he says quite honestly, if nothing else goes. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do it yourself. You're partly autonomous. This one-bit autonomous being, this partial autonomous being, is disturbing the universities. They are urged by an UOG in 1993 with the claim to be self-employed, and by the first sample of nails, namely that they regulate self-employment by, for example, an adjusted saving at each university, one can already leave one's fingers on it again. A little autonomy is not enough until no autonomy at all. And when it comes to wearing only when the cash registers are empty and when the rulers are in the end with their Latin, it hurts the universities especially. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Believe me, you didn't get into the black with these adaptation laws regarding universities. We will have time tomorrow to discuss this in more detail in the context of the scientific debate. They will certainly make no progress with this form of operation, with this scrapping in an in itself inappropriate area and by undermining university autonomy in the formation and training of our listeners, our spiritual good, our elite of tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23653	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for special discipline – I will also say why. I ask that every member of this House should now take up the place assigned to him here and remain in that place. We are now voting on the German Chancellor's Office/Public Service Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This includes Articles 1 to 19 in 95 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Frischenschlager and comrades. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the Advisory Group affected by this amendment and then on the remaining parts. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have tabled an amendment to Article 1. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application did not find a majority. The vote will now be taken on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the Committee's report to give the same sign. - That's the majority. The text of the Committee's report has been adopted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Federal Chancellery/Public Service Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act in 95 of the Supplements. Since this part of the draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first make provisions within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen! I no longer accept that a member of this House is now coming into the Chamber. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part of the draft law to give an appropriate sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer enters the hall.]] - Who came in? Mr President, Mr Fischer! I'm just counting the voices. I'm not aware of your voice anymore. [[Abg. Dr Fischer: Mr President! I've been talking to the Macedonian Foreign Minister, but I'm going again!]] Thank you. – This part of the draft law has been adopted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Articles 73 to 78 of the Structural Adjustment Act 1996 Justice
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23702	We are now entering the debate on the Justice Advisory Group. This includes Articles 73 to 78. I would ask the rapporteur to make an introductory comment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23721	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 73 to 78 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's Report (95 of the Supplements) and to adopt the resolution annexed to the Committee's report on the revision of the Law on Rental Law. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23742	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. Mr Dr. Ofner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23766	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is so pleasantly quiet and peaceful today in the hall. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This will change immediately!]] I am not going to be able to heat up the mood at all, although I wish, in the sense of living parliamentaryism, that a little bit of a stir is touching. It must not be the same that the President of the House is referred to a little less enough to bring in the mood. Yesterday things were different, and I would like to talk about them with a few sentences. It is by the speakers of the government parties that the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, if not Parliamentaryism and its rules in connection with the request by the Liberals for nominal vote in some cases. Those speakers who have chosen abuse here have confused cause and effect, ladies and gentlemen! There is abuse if I go here and realize that the provisions of the law to be adopted are unconstitutional, the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, the possibilities for appeal and review, the intervening and half-rates, sentences, individual words which are just unconstitutional, have been decided as constitutional provisions. That's abuse! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not a misuse if a responsible, conscientious opposition party comes along and about which – admittedly – time-consuming and laborious renegotiation of national voting for the future, for all futures, for history, in particular, who is one of the co-responsibles of yesterday's breach of the Constitution, these six, seven or more constitutional provisions. This may be embarrassing to those concerned, but they are the abusers and not those who have called for the vote by name! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this connection, it has also not been expressed by one speaker or another that it is necessary to think very well about restricting the rights of the opposition even more. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only warn you! We all remember that before two National Council elections, there was a new National Council election order against the votes of all the opposition parties. It is contrary to the rules of a well-understood parliamentary democracy that a decision is taken against the voices of the weaker new voting rights. In addition, the new electoral order has already been decided for the election to come at that time, which is also contrary to the rules of opposition in the democratic-parliamentary relationship. At the time, one hoped to diminuate the opposition. This hope has not been fulfilled. We have then tried to restrict the rights of opposition here in the House. Because one or another wants to go to bed earlier or else has something to do, one wants to go down to five minutes or even three minutes on some topics per speaker. This means that parliamentary democracy ceases, because Parliamentaryism is not only part of the government parties, as the opposition parties are equally involved! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you start to restrict it, it is a bad democrat! But I do not just want to address the subject from this moral-political point of view. I should also like to warn everyone against continuing to exercise in the limitation of the rights and possibilities of the opposition, because no one of you knows how long he is still in the areas of the government parties and from when on the opposition banker! This sometimes goes incredibly fast: You get to the government quickly, and just as quickly you can be outside again. That is to say, everyone who likes to say that only the government parties are good and the opposition parties should look where they stay, must expect them to become themselves Leg sets, because he can belong to an opposition party as early as tomorrow. You should never forget that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Structural adjustment law Justice – not a very productive field, Federal Minister! It is therefore not an efficient field because, according to tradition, the justice of tradition has a micro-budget compared to other resorts, a micro-budget, which is still financed to a very high percentage from the activities of justice, from court fees, from fines and from similar, and what really needs to be paid is almost entirely the sum of personnel costs. That means saving justice is difficult. It also looks like what is available to us for decision-making, and the ideas are partly just curious. For example, it is based on the practice which currently exists for all parties, particularly the judicial authorities, that the person who has the right to take account of files - and this must, at least from a certain stage of the procedure, each one - and also copies, have and receive copies of the relevant file, because the insight is not that he reads files that often consist of 30, 40 volumes at court level, but he receives the billings, and he pays for them. It is now intended to install a device that calculates fees per page. Today, the law firm calls one of the two ladies in the Grey House in Vienna and says: Mrs Soundso, we need the Act Soundso, twice. And it calls back, the billings are done, they can be picked up, it's an act of surrender and you pay. This is the replacement of the expenses arising in this context. In the future, proper fees will be lifted with a device that will be calculated, with a device that monitors, and above all the state will earn them, the state will deserve to be suspicious of the one who accuses, but whose innocence may be shown, who has a right to be able to study "his" act, to pay something per page. Ladies and gentlemen! That is illogical, that is unfair, and that will certainly be more expensive in the result than the practice now practiced. So it is that the judicial system is trying to save itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will be relatively little to blame itself. If I look to the Minister and the gentlemen at the official banks, I can imagine how this happened. They came home from a meeting and said: We have to save so much, where do we do that? There is no financial meat on the body of justice where one could speculate, and then one comes to grips with such curious things. But there is another field in which one does not have the courage to intervene accordingly. This is the problem of flat-rate costs in criminal proceedings, i.e. the flat-rate cost replacement in criminal proceedings by convicts. Today it is true that if a person is condemned, the flat-rate costs are generally declared indisputable by the negotiator, because the owner or whatever person may be, usually, has no money, perhaps walks behind Swedish curtains, and it would therefore be pointless to determine the flat-rate costs to be replaced. But if they are not inflexible, then they are determined in amounts and applied for replacement, which have the character of drinking money redeeming and no longer have. If today a schöppensenat negotiates for several days and if a business administrator comes and calculates what it costs with all Drum and Dran, with the investigative judge who previously worked, with the prosecutor sitting there, and more, then an amount of 10 000 s would come out. If a person is condemned today, even one who has it, one who can pay it, one who is therefore to pay it, then he receives a flat rate of 5 000 s or at most a little more. Have you experienced more, Martin? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No!]] I've been in this business for 38 years. It has hardly ever happened to me that someone over 2 500 S, 3 000 S, 4000 S, 5 000 S, in weeks of processes, perhaps 8 000 S, has been charged flat-rate costs. In fact, one could also apply to anyone what he has caused against criminal law in terms of costs. But there you are shy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To this end, we have already introduced a fixed and finished legislative proposal, texted out weeks ago. We have demanded that we go to the tenfold, because it costs the tenfold of what we now demand. And whoever is convicted and can afford it, he should also replace it to the public, the taxpayer. How does the ordinary citizen, who may never get into conflict with the criminal law, come to bear the criminal procedural costs of others? But the resort is shy – I can well imagine from which side this shyness comes – and comes only to a subtle doubling. Now the judges have to play along, but they won't do it the same. From 3,500 p.m. to 4,500 p.m., you will get flat cost in processes that are calculated among brothers at 50,000 p.m. or 60,000 p.m. There's more to it than there is in the case of file copies. Moreover, it seemed just, and then it seemed sensible! In general, efforts could be made to finally increase the level of attention and balance in the state's response in criminal law enforcement, a more differentiated law enforcement at all. Today, it is indeed the case that criminal prosecutions are being initiated, that there is a case of convictions to ask whether this is really necessary. I'm not a softie. I am neither in politics nor in my profession as a lawyer known or concealed as such. But once again I come to talk about the problem of the offence of the negligent Krida – not the fraudulent Krida, not the fraud, not the infidelity, the infidelity, or how all these crimes may be called, the negligent Krida, no GesmbH. Some Greißler, a "crabbler", is in trouble with his company – for which reasons always – still trying to keep the jobs, trying to get over the rounds. He fails in the end. He has complaints, he has execution procedures, he has a bankruptcy procedure, which may be stopped in the absence of cost coverage, at the neck. Finally, everything he and his family possessed is gone. That's not the case with the big ones, but it's with the little ones. And then this poor sausage is still standing in front of the judge and gets the usual tax in all cases – that is due in Vienna for three to four months! And I wonder what for! If today one of his small companies has entered and he is not a cheater, but has had bad luck, then he is punished enough with the loss of his entire assets, his company. If he's had a house, it's gone, and everything else is gone. He usually doesn't know – he's not a big businessman; he doesn't usually do anything anyway – how he's supposed to get on with it. And then the judiciary is still going here, finishing a great procedure and ordering a book expert. These are usually very expensive, which is then also 40 000 S to 50 000 S, which are not then available to those who have already been put to the underwear. And that's not a procedure! If you go to the Grey House, you can find such processes in every second hall. That's where the state could really save! However, a new law would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also believe that it is not only "criminals" – under quotation marks – in which such reactions are not at all necessary – not only in the field of negligent Krida – that one pursues cost-effectively for nothing and again, but, in the other hand, they do not pursue truly dangerous, even dangerous, criminal offences, which are limited to professional crime or which are active in their context. Those with real hops and malts that can be calculated on the basis of their "supply bill" that it will not take long after the execution of the one punishment until they are again punishable and come to the next punishment are faced with blue-eyed helplessness by the judicial authorities. You think you have to practice in a misunderstanded humanity. And that's expensive too! Because the most expensive thing is the relapse of these things. One does not have the courage to meet these perpetrators accordingly and to withdraw them from the traffic for appropriate time. However, those who are already in difficulty, but who have not yet lost hope and malt, do not have the courage and not the strength to enter the financial store accordingly and to try to bring them to the rounds after their release. Because that's part of it too! Failures that have committed their punishments, which have not yet lost hope and malt, must help to stay on the right path. It must be tried to get them a roof above the head. They must be helped to find a job. They must be helped with re-indebtedness. This does not mean that they have to be paid the debt – it does not work anyway – but one has to help them to cover the debts in order. I believe – and I know what I am talking about, because I have a decades of professional experience – that we can no longer properly meet with the instruments we apply in the criminal justice that come from the first half of their main substance, from the beginning of the last century. One is taken too hard and too expensive, the other does not help to get on the right track, and the really criminals are too little "caught"! And everything costs a pagan money! These are ways in which we should courageously take new directions, new directions which would lead to fewer procedures, less burden on the courts, shorter duration of the processes and fewer prisoners, all in all: to the consumption of less means of taxation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also believe that it is necessary to find a way to apply the fine rather than imprisonment in the order of magnitude. I know that, on the basis of reservations from a very specific group, even here in the house, this is because it is said that it favours the one who has money, because he does not have to sit, but then pays it, and the poor devil must go to the port. – This can be counter-taxed by the calculation of the imprisonment, the replacement penalty and by the calculation of the fine. Both mean consumer movement, a ban on consumption. – Consumption of freedom, consumption of opportunities to start something different with the money. But today it is still true that I am far too often gripping on the sentence of liberty, whether conditional or imperative, and not on the fine of money, instead of imposing really high fines and, for the case of non-implementation, relatively minor penalties for replacement. In this way one could encounter the arguments that one says that the rich judge it and pay everything, and the poor must sit forever. For then it would be that sensitive fines would be relatively minor in their duration of replacement sentences. And that would not only help the state save money, it would even open up a new additional source of revenue, which I am convinced of, ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I believe that it is a bad advice to try, as one is trying to do here, to make use of a few shillings in a manner that is sometimes evenly curious, from practices which are not suitable for fiscal use, on the other hand, and that one does not give up the courage, on the other hand, not to give up the power to introduce, implement, implement, bring to an end, which would result in more justice and cost taxpayers less money.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23879	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e23901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate we are having today is an opportunity to consider the principles of judicial policy for the next four years and at the same time to consider how the resources that are rather limited can be used in a meaningful and efficient way. Mr Ofner has already raised a number of points. I think that we should, together - Parliament, the department, but also the subordinate departments and the courts concerned - consider how the funds can be used efficiently, how they can be used sparingly, and how we can achieve that funds can also be reworked for the areas for which we need them, where there may be a need for increased staffing to save on the other hand social costs. I'll go in a little more precisely. There is a need for cuts and cancellations in some areas, and of course there is criticism of that. One point is the aggregation of micro-district courts – a not very popular measure in the municipalities concerned. But I think that is essential. A thought that is constantly being brought to me by the heads of institutions, i.e. by the heads of the penitentiaries, is the desire to maintain an autonomous budget and to have the resources themselves. I think that can be useful. This is also true in other areas: You have certain limited resources, consider priorities, consider where it is especially important for you to use them! – This can certainly lead to a more rational and useful process. I would ask you, Minister, to consider this too. I know that there are certain resistances to it. It is, of course, also the task of Parliamentarians to examine whether we have not made very personal and labour-intensive regulations, which then do not bring about what we want, a greater degree of legal certainty, but which lead to an increase in the effort without the results being better. . I think that in some areas we need a generous use of the resources in order to achieve socially meaningful solutions. One area in which this is undoubtedly true is the division in criminal law, in criminal proceedings. The extrajudicial compensation of young people has proved particularly successful, and the pilot projects in the adult sector have also been very successful. It is not only an advantage that people who have not committed too serious crimes, who do not have to be held in the interests of society, are given the chance of reparation and are not thrown out of the way. The extrajudicial compensation also brings benefits to the victims. We are repeatedly asked to think about the victims and not so much about the suspect or the perpetrator. I very much believe that we must keep in mind the further fate of the perpetrator, including for social reasons. But what is very important to us is to let justice befall the victim. We are doing this in the extrajudicial case-law. This is about reparation. In most cases, it is more satisfying for the victim to experience a reparation, to be confronted with a perpetrator who is capable of repenting, who tries to correct his act, apologises, and deals with it. I believe that this is also more important for the victim than if someone who has so far been unchallenged, perhaps with all the consequences that this will have, disappears in prison. I think that this is the cheaper, the more humane and also the more appropriate way for society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The division is therefore a very important means of criminal law policy, and we need to take further steps in this legislative period. This could also trigger lying projects, such as shoplifting, negligent body injury and also negligent Krida. This could lead to decriminalisation. At the same time, it is also necessary to put in place effective measures to combat organised crime. I hope, for example, that the next Vienna convention on trafficking in human beings will achieve useful results. Vienna is a point on the map on which the problem of trafficking in human beings appears again and again. We are a country in which people, especially women, but in some cases also young people, children, are being abused from the east, detained, forced to prostitution under inhuman conditions. This is more and more true of Western Europe, but Austria is a hub due to its proximity to the poorer Eastern European countries, which unfortunately has to be said. In connection with organised crime, the experts agree that it is very important to use the financial resources of criminal organisations. We held a discussion during the previous legislative period on the levying of crime profits. I believe that we must continue to think in this direction and also in the field of money laundering. I would like to point out that Austria, in criminal law, has a more advanced regime in terms of money laundering than some other EU countries, because in some countries these paragraphs refer only to drug trafficking, i.e. not to profits from all forms of crime. During the debate, it was again and again – we now have a detailed debate in the European Parliament – that it is important not only to keep the banking sector in mind but also to take further action. To a very high extent, money laundering is about real estate, corporate participation, gambling, the acquisition of expensive jewelry and, above all, about the hospitality. We need to meet these new requirements. The criminal organizations and their legal experts are very imaginative about new ways of money laundering and, if necessary, we must also create further legal opportunities. In this context, however, I would like to stress that the principles of the rule of law and the human rights convention are always binding on us. The State cannot resort to the same means as the criminal, otherwise questioning itself as a democratic and human rule of law. This does not mean turning away from the crime, but creating clear, clear rules and clear democratic control for all who receive increased access to data and information. We must be aware that all further regulations can affect not only the criminal organizations but also the ordinary citizens and that they have a right to protection against too much knowledge of state authorities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must be clear that institutions equipped with great knowledge and therefore with great power can be controlled at any time, that their steps must be comprehensible, disputable and criticised and that they can also be affected. It would also be desirable, after the reform of the criminal process of the previous legislative period, to launch a security-executive procedure. I think it must be possible, in conjunction with the interior, to find an appropriate way of doing so. But not only the criminal law and the criminal process, but also many other areas should be considered and, in some cases, new arrangements should be made for them. I would just like to mention the environmental liability, the protection of consumers, where we have become a follow-up to the implementation of the EU directives – we already have a case before the European Court of Justice – the rental right with the problem of temporary rental contracts, and not least, we also need to consider divorce and maintenance. Especially in divorce law, the question arises whether it is not possible, through intensive use of people who are psychologically and socially trained, to take the lead in the conflicts and to emancipate them. This would reduce social costs. I'm just saying the keyword: Mediation. I would be interested, Minister, to what extent the first projects have been successful. I believe that it would be important to deal with divorce in a decent, non-necessary manner and also economically reasonable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would be desirable especially in the interests of children. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a few words on the revision of the General Civil Code in the area of family and marriage law. The long-standing Minister of Women Johanna Dohnalund also advocates her successor Helga Konrad for more partnership in marriage. Those who do not want to do so are now trying to make these proposals ridiculous. But it is not, as is sometimes said, that a police officer or, even better still, a police officer should be put in each apartment, who then takes care of how housework is really divided, but it is about anchoring the idea of partnership more strongly in the ABGB. In the great family law reform under Christian Broda, partnership in the family, equality and equality between men and women in the family have been established. Previously, it was known that the man was the head of the family, that the woman had to follow him in his residence, that all the wealth had come from him in doubt and that he could also prohibit her from working – but only the extraordinary work, for the housework, the child rearing, that was "natural" her business. These enormous regulations have been forgotten, but that does not mean that in practice it is not the same as we do not wish. I do not want to go into it now, but I am sure we will have another debate on the "Federal Chancellery – Women's Affairs" chapter. The reality is in many ways another: Women are still much more burdened than men. What we want is a clearer wording of some paragraphs in the ABGB, which establish that both are bound to the same extent as maintenance, budget management, care for children and old family members. That is, I think, a principle against which no reasonable person can be, and I therefore assume that we will have a satisfactory outcome. In addition, the ABGB contains some anachronisms that record an outdated women's image and women's ideal. Most of these provisions are not known at all, I think they can be removed with a dash. Mr. Federal Minister! I think a lot of work is waiting for us. I hope that good cooperation will be achieved, and I also hope that the support of your excellent colleagues in our parliamentary work will be available to us as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24034	The honourable Member is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Dr. Schmidt. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24055	Have a nice day! Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A contribution by the Liberals to the debate on justice – whether it be to the accompanying laws, or to the budget law – is rarely registered under the heading "contra", but mostly to the pro-redners – simply because we believe that, on the one hand, a budget chapter and therefore the accompanying laws ultimately serve to secure independent justice. This is one of the most important pillars of our rule of law. That's a reason. On the other hand, we have for some time had a party-independent Minister of Justice, and I think it makes sense to strengthen such a party independent. And – I have to say that – one is of course also positively caught and positively affected by the excellent cooperation with the staff of the Ministry of Justice, which differs from the quality of other departments. The latter remains upright: It is an extremely good cooperation, and I would therefore also like to take advantage of today's opportunity to thank all the staff of the Ministry of Justice on behalf of the Liberal Forum. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] However, this time – unfortunately, I say; we do regret this – we cannot be tempted to say yes to the accompanying laws or to the budget chapter. The Structural Adjustment Act could now be limited to a No, because the definition of the changes affecting the scope of the Ministry of Justice includes a whole of 13 lines in the Structural Adjustment Act. In order not to be misunderstood: I am not going to have a single line, because all that we expect in the field of justice policy has not lost anything in a structural adjustment law anyway. It would be exactly the wrong way of legislation to pack everything in here now. I don't want to be understood that way. These structural adjustment areas concern court fees, cost fees, and we would even have been willing to take part in a rather unpopular measure if we had overall feeling that the judicial policy of the coming years was ambitious, a comprehensive, but above all one based on certain principles. Unfortunately, I no longer feel that, unlike the hopes so far. I do not therefore feel this, Minister of Justice, because here in an area a reflection of you has failed, which I believe must be the most necessary reflection of a minister of justice always when it comes to circumcision when it comes to erodement or even the abolition of fundamental rights. It is not only the task of a minister or of legislation, for example – a policy field – to fight crime, but it is above all the primary task of judicial policy to limit the institutions used to combat crime. And that is what I meant when I said that there must be a natural reflection of a minister of justice if we are to get into the areas of fundamental rights in this frontier setting. You know what I'm talking about: I'm talking about the noise attack, I'm talking about the grid fencing. You have missed this reflection against a background that is a matter of concern to this society as a whole, against a background that you should see through – and I think you can see it through too – against a background of the excitement of public opinion, against the background of a policy of emotions, of interests, of given occasions. Minister! I call upon your first reaction to the plan of the big noise attack and the grid search in memory – it dates back to the 16th century. February 1995 –: At that time, I thought: How good that we have a party-independent Justice Minister! After all, you said – according to an APA message with the title "Michalek: Lush attack would be the most massive fundamental right intervention" – that this would probably be one of the most massive fundamental rights interventions that have existed so far. They believe that the time of the calls must be ended, they warn against a regulation of the occasion and a discussion carried out by emotions and irrationality. - That was on 16 May. February, Minister! At the beginning of March, and therefore already in February, the great coalition discussed how the ministerial functions should be re-occupied: They were talking, too. I am not going to get rid of the suspicion that you have suddenly thrown that firmness overboard in this prelude of coalition negotiations, which was the question of who should become Justice Ministers again, which is at least... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] It may be that you feel that this is a good thing; I can also imagine that this is happening to the Minister of Justice. It's not my intention to meet him. But I think it is necessary... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's a premise!]] He can disprove it by his way of justice policy. But I believe that it is necessary, when we talk about judicial policy, to make such comments if we feel it so, and to warn of things that are particularly dangerous in the field of justice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Because if, under the pressure of a coalition that has nothing better to do than to follow the call for the strongest newspapers and interest policy, you are preparing the ground for precisely this kind of policy by delivering drafts where you can get some reason that is still reasonable, then, I tell you quite frankly, no independent Justice Minister, then it can be an ÖVP minister, and better not the SPÖ in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why the ÖVP?]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is happening – I really say this with regret – in front of an image that does not correspond to reality, in front of an image of supposedly rising crime, in front of an image that is drawn quite consciously. And this is also an essential feature of many policies, especially justice policy. We do not believe in how much justice policy is affected by interests and is influenced by interests. It is often thought that this is only happening in the economic sector or in areas where there may be cartels, lobbies or the like. But how strong this is, you first have to introduce yourself and question yourself. On the one hand, it is actually the interest of many media to draw a picture of the threat, because crime is simply a salesable topic. That's reality. You just need to look at how this is raised. The media are interested in individual cases. It is not even essential where this individual case occurred, whether it was in Austria, whether it was in Scotland, whether it was in New Zealand; it is essential that this case can be prepared in order to be addressed as a salesable subject to the readers. It is therefore, I say, the interest of the media in making such a picture. There is still an interest that lies behind it, namely the interest of those politicians who know that emotions can make very good policies and that, above all, one can make very good politics, that it can therefore be quite rewarding for political success, fear, fear. Therefore, it makes sense to draw a threatening picture. So that's the second group that's interested in creating a different picture than it might be in reality. And then there is another area that is interested in drawing such a picture: These are some institutions themselves, such as the police, who, of course, have quite different possibilities in front of such a scenario, in a budget debate, for example, to achieve an increase in their budgets or in savings periods at least a balance of their budgets, or – and that is exactly what it is about – to get more powers to strengthen their institution. That is, we have three large fields where there are interests behind it. I am not saying that crime is actually sinking, nor is it possible to speak of crime in a bad way, because there are various crimes because there are different manifestations of crime, because there are different causes for it and because it is therefore also necessary to apply different policies to it. To clarify and differentiate these three fields do not have in mind, because they benefit from a manipulation, they benefit from an emotionalization, they benefit from the indifference. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And now it is a minister of justice who opposes such a policy and who does not play the same game that these teachers, whether they are called Vrannitzky, Khol or Haider, do. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Or Schmidt!]] They've tried to get out of the way. It's sad enough to call these three in a breath, but it's so. They have run the rank of each other, who then has the theme leadership for these two areas, who is the weakest, who spends it as soon as possible – if it goes, still last year – we will pass these laws. Now we have at least come until the summer. So it doesn't matter. However, the impression is raised as if there was a 100% security – which is an unfavorable one. As a politician and politician, too, one must have the courage to say: There's no such thing as that, folks! Therefore: Let us not look for general keys, which eliminate all these problems, and let us not convey the image as if it were just the noise attack and the grid arrest such a general key. But you don't just do anything about it, but you're in. And this is the great disappointment – even if it is only a field of justice policy, but a symptomatic one. We are therefore very disappointed about the policy of the future in the field of justice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is not only a violation of the very essential principles of our rule of law, but also the success of these institutions that the success of these instruments is more marginal. It is totally dispassionate to refer to famous examples in Germany or in America, where one has seen that with the noise attack or the grid arrest I do not know what could be done. It's simple and just not true! It is true that organised crime – and against it it should be addressed – is the fastest thing to do about it. – No, I can only say! The rest of them remain those who are not able to adapt to it so quickly or who do not even know that they have to depend on it. And these are all those who are unsuspecting, these are potentially all those who are in this room, whether they are sitting there on the top of the gallery, whether they are sitting in the journalistic loggers, whether they are in the presslogists or elsewhere or here below, or whether it is the President's highly personal. It's just that, because it's not going to be different, and I really think it's the most unintelligent and unfair argument that comes constantly when you say: A decent man has nothing to hide! Who's up there? What do Mrs Schmidt and Mrs Petrovic have to hide in their bedrooms?, as Mr Leitgeb, who is thus really the lowest point of journalistic culture – if I take the word into my mouth in this context at all – has spread. What do these people have to hide at all? And who goes up to this inferior argument? It is really an attack to say an insult to every interlocutor: What do we have a secret right to vote for? - Do not have anything to hide! What do we have a letter secret for? - Do not have anything to hide! For what have we fought all these fundamental rights and are proud that they are symptoms of a rule of law if we now come with this really unintelligent, unfair, absurd argument: The simple, the decent has nothing to hide anyway, it only goes against the evil criminals!? - That's a nonsense! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] And all of this, Mr Minister of Justice, you carry along with and legitimize it by saying: We have now dissuaded this bill, it will only be over judicial approval – as if that were the measure of all things! ............................................................................................................................................................................. And something else – now I really wonder, I may have overlooked it; I do not exclude it –: How do you react to the ideas of the clubman of the SPÖ, who is now, namely, the 15th. April, again made great considerations about the noise attack after coming from this party in the first place: We do everything with judicial approval!? – And that’s the justification for everything? – But now Kostelka said that the approval of such investigations could be submitted to the Minister of Justice. – What does that mean now? That the Justice Ministers should control the judges? That's in the "SK"! If at least this had been done somewhere in a newspaper, I'd have said to myself: Okay, maybe a journalist didn't understand it, maybe he didn't express himself. But this is spread in the "SK". So I assume you know what you mean by that. And so is it inside. Yes, please, what kind of reactions are there? Does this really mean that we will have the Justice Ministers controlled in future? Does this really mean that we are refusing such fundamental rights intervention by a politician? – How far do you want to undermine this rule of law? [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] And the curiosum is bad, so now we are already limited, in the case of savings measures, now we are apparently going to include savings in the noise attacks and grid arrests – that Mr. Kostelka said – a pity that he is not here... [[Abg. Grabner: Here he is!]] Where is he? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka, standing behind the bank lines, has the hand.]] I quote you. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Michalek.]] It's not "SN", it's "SK", Mr. Federal Minister. "SK" is called "Social Democratic Correspondence", I assume. - Well, that's what you wrote yourself. Kostelka said: "The authorisation practice should also be designed in such a way that a maximum of five to ten such noise attack permits are granted per year." – Please, be Don't hurt me. Is that really your principle that you are now talking about, more than five, six or seven a year it must not be – totally whether it really is a If there is an occasion or not, do you come to this point at once? That's a bit of a potency! It must not be true that these are the considerations raised in government groups in connection with a fundamental right intervention – which you, Federal Minister, disagree with, and that is the terrible thing! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I wonder – in order to address it again on this occasion – what about these two instruments? Whether it is the presumption of innocence, the protection of trust or the protection of privacy, all these things are seriously affected. Now, if I'm going to introduce the Rasterfahndung: I'll see you in case You should actually decide by your majority to stand here in a few years, and then you will say: Actually, the instrumentarium is inefficient, because more data is needed. – At present, it is already so that you do not hesitate to include medical data, that you do not hesitate to dig through all the areas that we have really secured. My only hope is that, after journalists have now come up with the fact that the editorial offices may also be affected, perhaps the "Kronen-Zeitung" in their argument, and then perhaps you will make another exception for this reason, as you have already done with this kneefall in connection with the work contracts. Maybe you'll even take out the editorial offices. Everything else doesn't matter to you! So I'm already discussing what data we need to store. And then, I must say, of course, it would only be logical to continue the current discussion, that when it comes to getting hold of terrorism, i.e. politically or primarily politically motivated offences, in the truest sense of the word, this formulation is so appropriate! – of course also needs to store data of mind. Of course! Then it will be about finding out which newspapers a subscriber has subscribed to, at which associations one is, how he may have spoken at school at that time, how he has spoken there or there, at which demonstration he has been and all these things. That's why we want to photograph them all, so we want to hold them all. These are all the things you'll bring in and say: Otherwise, this instrument of the Rasterfahndung is not at all efficient. And then it'll be called: We already have it, so we make it more efficient. That is not to see and want to introduce it now, without need, without any certainty, that it really brings something, simply so because it wants some politicians, sausages from which party, because it wants the heavy-duty newspapers, that is not responsible, Minister of Justice! You must make this accusation happen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Other policy areas, on the other hand, touch Not even. Now I'm not talking about what you're going to announce. It has already been tailor-made by Mr Hlavac, but also by Mr Ofner, a lot of things that would be necessary in itself. It was spoken of as a trial aid, it was spoken of by the extrajudicial case-law, it was spoken of by the preliminary proceedings. All these are things in which, I believe, we are relatively agreed on this – and that is not quite true, but where many are in agreement, I say now – that they must at least be taken into account, and that it will then be a matter of what vehemence, with what attitude and with what conviction we then drive things on. - Should be. I don't want to talk about that now. There's a lot in this book. But you yourself have not mentioned policy areas in which there is a real need for action. Now I am not just talking about criminal law, but of course we need action from the Minister of Justice, for example in the area of housing law, and I hope you will not dispute it. What you decided in this respect in the past legislative period was a flop. We all know that, but nothing happened. In the Building Committee you have still given it because it is so well-occupied with social partners and therefore you can put things into practice differently there. We have seen the result. Where is the commitment of the Minister of Justice to set in motion a new thrust in the right of residence, which in fact creates a new lease situation, which primarily creates more apartments and, above all, more affordable apartments? There is no word about this in your project! Where do we have only one sentence about what the German Chancellor – if I still have it in his ears – has said so great in the government statement, namely how important the diversity of the media is to him? Where is a new charge in connection with the antitrust law? The antitrust law was a real rudiment for the last time and has had to do with the unbundling of the printing media zero. Why Trust If you are talking about a variety of media, do you not at last decide to unbund, and not to take retroactive action as you have been used to in recent times, but rather to transitional provisions so that it can be planned so that it is clear that you know what you have to put on? For other things, you have no fear at all of simply deciding a retroactive date of entry into force. But on this question you say that not even for the future one can decide because there is already that. – This is cowardice and has to do with a principle consideration. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For example, where is your commitment to clarify – or do you have a different opinion? – what is the task of judicial policy? For example, I do not believe that it is the task of the state – with persecution by the prosecutor – to be a guardian of morality. There is no longer any discussion at all about the abolition of the Pornography Act. I know that this is probably not a majority right now, but it would be a matter for the Minister of Justice to start a discussion on this if he has the appropriate conviction. I really believe that this is not the case of the prosecutor. [[Abg. Wormitzer: I have no problem with it!]] That you think otherwise, Mr Wurmitzer, I know, but then you argue here. But we do not have the opportunity to do so because the Minister of Justice is hiding in this regard. [[Abg. Wormitzer: Where is the problem?]] What do you mean? [[Abg. Wormitzer: I have no problem with it!]] We do not even have the opportunity to discuss, and this is a pity, because of the lack of initiative of the Minister of Justice. What, in turn, have you done in marriage law? – I am of your opinion, Mr Hlavac, that, of course, there is a need to raise awareness – and there you have to think about the instruments – so that the principle of partnership in marriage is not only on paper, but that it is also lived. I only think that you choose the wrong instrument if you want to take it as a marital sin. And I'll tell you why: It is simply because the more important instrument would be to abolish the principle of indebtedness as a whole. But they stress, with quite a fair intention, an instrument that is in itself bad. I do not agree with this argument because the principle of indebtedness is abolished, because it must finally be changed. It is a matter of providing compensation in the case of divorce, but not of the fact that Mr. State attorney decides who is more responsible for breaking a marriage. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Since when does the prosecutor decide on this?]] That the courts decide on it, apologies that at least a state body, which I meant, was the cause of my promiser, decides who is more responsible for the separation of two people. [[Federal Minister Dr. Michalek: We have set up a working group!]] Yes, you have set up a working group, but we already know how it is with working groups. This is really the typical Austrian solution if you have no courage to confess color, and if you want to push something. - And that's exactly the assumption. If you really have the courage and if you have a position on it, then, please, bring it in! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What is your position on this?]] We have so far had at least a very positive culture of discussion in the Committee on Justice. I hope we can get them. But let's do something! We do not publish it in any nebulous working groups that meet all the holy times once, so that we have an alibi that happens anyway, but we really confess profile! This would be necessary in judicial policy. As far as minorities are concerned, Minister of Justice, I see no commitment from you at all. We have minorities in various areas. This is a subject - I do not know how often this speaker's vote - which also concerns, for example, the discrimination of homosexuals in this state. That's a theme that I've always looked at the faces now, whether one starts to gag: Now she's coming back with the theme. – As if it were a matter of how many people are affected by a problem! – You know, this is your way of making politics: first, count how many it is happening and then decide whether it pays off at all to deal with it. [[Abg. Großruck: This is our attitude, not our way of politics!]] Wonderful! It is now clear to us that It depends on the protection of human rights for whom human rights are used. That is to say, one looks at whether one thinks that they are to the person concerned, and if so, he gets his human rights. But those in whom one finds that they do not belong to them do not receive them either. That is also the point of discrimination against homosexuals in our society. And it is a shame for Austria, how our criminal law is constructed in this relationship! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Minister of Justice! If we are already with this minority of people: There is still a minority in this area, with regard to which the awareness of the problem of our society is completely lacking. I confess quite openly, I too have become familiar with these problems only in recent times, because this is something that you don't even see directly because these people have to hide even more because they have even more difficulties in being accepted in this society, which is the transsexuals. It is true that, in Austria, we do not even have the approach of discussing the problems facing these people and the legal regulations therefore need to solve these problems. There has been a transsexual law in Germany since 1980. In Austria we don't even talk about it. The Minister for Justice has not yet lost a word on this. And that's what bothers me so much because I'm of the opinion... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: These are our "greatest" problems!]] Look, that's your attitude! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] That's exactly what I mean. That's exactly your attitude! We are now in the field of justice and not in another area, you know, and therefore you cannot answer the problem of unemployment against the problem of homosexuals. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't hear anything about youth protection at all! I don't hear anything from prevention!]] This is exactly the polemic that we otherwise know from this side, but you are becoming less and less different. [[towards the freedom of movement]] I'm perfectly clear. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a laissez-fair-liberism without any regulatory framework!]] Your regulatory framework, Mr Khol, has now become more clear to me than I ever thought possible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It doesn't have to be my regulatory framework, but some one!]] What I mean by that is that there is no consideration at all of the real problems affecting people. We have discussions about victim protection, we have discussions about punishment, we have about a... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Pornography, Homosexuals, Transsexuals – these are your themes for which you are committed!]] Yes, these are precisely those policies, Mr. Khol, which no human being is talking about and who therefore need someone to show them. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But these are not the problems of this country!]] These are not the problems of a country, these are problems of people! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't care about the protection of young people! You don't care about the Mafia!]] And if you do not understand that politics has to be directed towards people, I think you are already disqualified for politics. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That we have different views, I accept. That is the essence of different parties, that is the essence of different attitudes. It is also the essence of a Parliament to create majority voting. [[Abg. Großruck: Accept the opinion of the others too!]] I know that with our opinion we often can't get through with it. To live with this I have to learn, and I have. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have also lost mandates for this! We've won mandates!]] That you're talking about losing again, I think I'm particularly funny, but it's symptomatic, and that's why I like to respond to your call. It is symptomatic for me when we talk about human rights in relation to the problems of people, whether it brings mandates or whether we lose mandates. That's the point! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You've done the topic!]] That's your attitude. They ask: If we lose a mandate, do we lose votes with that? – You don't care about the principle! [[Abg. Großruck: You have a strange attitude!]] And that, Minister of Justice, you must not allow it! Here's a need for stability. Here's a profile required of you. A clear opinion is required of you here. And if you make this clearer than before, there will also be approval from us. [[Abg. Großruck: We have delivered a clear statement!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24515	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24558	Mr President. Minister! I have never had a statement made here by this speaker's chair as affected as Mrs Schmidt's ride against the Minister before. [[Abg. May. Barmüller:... so affected!]] [[Rejoicing at the Liberal Forum]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was probably so surprised because I did not expect this bottom drawer from Mrs Schmidt. [[Abg. May. Trattner: We've known her for a long time!]] It is obscene, Mrs Colleague, first to praise the officials and then to submit to the Minister immeasurables. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What is it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: What is it?]] It's creepy, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're right for a media headline. You do not tolerate being subject to your position – your position on noise attack and grid arrest. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You didn't understand her!]] And on this point, Mrs Colleague, you are very gentle, if you go under the belt line in that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You didn't understand the argument!]] That shows where you came from and what political school you went to. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] They have accused the Minister of abolishing fundamental rights on this issue and have called for the Minister to set limits on the institutions when it comes to intervention in fundamental rights. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: No, you want to get rid of them, and he's watching!]] The Minister said in February only that he considered this to be a serious intervention in fundamental rights, and the Ministry then came quite specifically exactly what you called for, namely the border crossing of the institutions. It has come from there that noise attacks and grids, the modern methods of investigation, are only possible under certain conditions. I agree with you that the proposal made yesterday by Mr Kostelka is unacceptable. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Go!]] It may not be that the order of these investigation methods does not go beyond the courts, but, as Kostelka wishes, only through the Minister. We will give the ÖVP the approval of that proposal, which grants a tripartite Senate – not a single judge responsible for it – the right to arrange these new methods of investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner:... don't agree!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Bravo!]] And you know very well that we have taken the border crossing of the institutions very seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to go further on the minority issues to which Mrs Schmidt has concluded, because I believe that we have to deal with much wider, larger and priority areas in the field of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: That's great!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, there is the entire complex of economic law. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Regrettably, when it comes to justice, it is always thought only of the apparatus. Mr Oellinger, through his warmth, which he has just shown, also acknowledged that he does not consider company law, consumer protection, environmental liability, insolvency law, housing law, antitrust law, construction contract law – all the issues dealt with in the judicial committee – as essential materials. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You forgot about the rental right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the next meeting of the Committee on Justice, we will adopt a law which will require 86 000 Gesmbhs to publish their accounts to the company's books, and I hope that this will bring greater transparency and protection of creditors into our economic life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as consumer protection is concerned, I believe that Mrs Hlavac is very likely to have to be adapted to EU law. But beyond that, I cannot imagine very much, as I believe at all, that the necessary EU legal adjustments are effectively included in our legal system and should not lead to a bloating of the regulatory density. We must not be burdened by Austria's economic location, but we must compete with the EU's adjustment, which means detach, deregulate. Less is more! Any EU adjustment should be used for deregulation and not for the bloating of tasks and bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Here you will find support!]] In addition to the entire economic law complex in the Committee on Justice, I am particularly important to the social-political complex, although I am not d’accord with colleague Schmidt, because I simply have a different attitude to values. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Thank God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] As long as the ÖVP, Mrs Schmidt, is in the government, we will put valuable emphasis on society's policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, I see the problem of violence in the family, violence against children, violence against women, as a much greater problem in our society than a regime for the transsexuals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The provisions of criminal law also clearly determine the values of a society. It's important to deal with victims and perpetrators. It is important to protect society through criminal law – on the one hand, preventively and on the other hand, but also from the perpetrators. That is, the protection of victims – perhaps a little too short to date – is also important to us. In this respect, we are preparing innovations. You know that we have set up a subcommittee on criminal law change. In my view, it is of social importance that we deal intensively with the out-of-court settlement of acts also for adults. Minister! I ask you, according to the legal possibilities of this out-of-court settlement for adults, to also create the infrastructure as quickly as possible. Perhaps it is possible for you to give increased funding to the parole aid agreement, which has to play a major part in this process, through re-implementation in your budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, social policy is also of particular importance in dealing with the criminality of homosexuality, with the age of protection for young people, also with the fight against sex tourism and, for me, with the laws of addiction. The Drugs Act is being discussed in the Health Committee, but since it involves significant crime, I believe, as chairman of the Justice Committee, that the Justice Committee should make a decisive contribution to this. Mrs Schmidt! As long as I am chairman of the Justice Committee, the value-conservative attitude will be recognizable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Maybe that won't be long!]] I would, however, like to maintain the climate of consensus despite your efforts against the Minister of Justice. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that you will, on occasion, apologise to him for this. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: He won't want to, Mrs. Fekter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Unlike you, he knows what I meant!]] I also hope that the non-coalition area in the Committee on Justice will take more place than before, that we will find more non-coalition-free issues than the previously established in the judicial matter. I am glad that the Minister for Justice has presented the "green book" on the work programme. In terms of content, I do not agree with all the things in it. But it is up to Parliament to discuss the Ministry of Justice's programme and, in terms of legal matters, to change it in such a way as to allow majority voting in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24913	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e24934	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, for the consolidation programme presented by the Federal Government, the judicial body also has to make its contribution, and for 1996 there is a certain reduction, a small increase in expenditure for 1997. However, the most cost-effective use of resources in general and the planned structural measures to be discussed today ensure that the necessary human resources and material resources for justice are ensured. The measures necessary to meet the savings targets will not lead to a restriction on the important tasks of the judicial system, in particular in the areas of legal and legal protection, the care of disabled people and the rehabilitation of criminal offences including detention aid. The rationalisation of the court by the further increasing use of modern information technology allows for a reduction in the number of non-judicial staff in the establishment plans for 1996 and 1997, while increasing the area of enforcement in order to take account of increased security needs, but above all of the needs of more intensive care for prisoners. A structural measure which is particularly important to the judiciary, which is also already being discussed today, is the reform of the District Court Organisation, which is aimed in particular at strengthening the power of the District Courts in the interests of the people seeking legal protection, but also, of course, at providing far-reaching potential for savings. I am pleased that the amendments proposed by the Federal Government to facilitate the merger of district courts within the district headquarters will be made to the transitional law in 1920 to the High House for decision-making in May this year. In particular, the Federal Finance Laws 1996 and 1997 take into account the not always so clearly seen close link between expenditure and revenue of the judicial body, which provides services against remuneration in many areas in the field of business management. For example, the expenditure of the courts and the public prosecutor authorities is in relation to revenue to a 90 percent above the level. Increased use of the institutions and services of the judicial system is likely to lead to higher expenditure, but also to higher revenue. The Federal Financial Laws for 1996 and 1997 take into account the fact that the amounts of expenditure in themselves very limited can be exceeded, mainly against cover by additional income. A particular concern will continue to be the continuation of the work on the renewal of the judiciary, particularly in the service of efficient and civilised legal care. This objective is devoted to various projects of the Ministry of Justice, of which I would like to highlight, as examples, the further expansion of the use of modern information technology, the extension of our new internal revision also to the enforcement of penalties, the reform of the training system and the improvement of the instrument for measuring personnel utilization. The legal reform is also included in the XX. This is the first time that we have been able to make progress in the legislative period. There is no need to fear the flood of law on my part. We will act with care and attention, and we will focus on the legal needs arising from the social and economic changes of our time. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Consumer protection is a priority. An important step has already been taken with the recently unanimously adopted broker law in the Committee on Justice. The Builder Treaty Act and a major novel to the Consumer Protection Act are in preparation, as well as a reform of the right of warranty in the case of movable goods and thus in the context of the limitation provisions on damages. The increase in insolvency in recent years must be countered by social and insolvency measures that allow for early response to a emerging business crisis and facilitate the reorganisation or rehabilitation of a viable company. In the context of family law, the working group I set up will undergo the applicable divorce, divorce and divorce law of a practice-oriented review and will prepare solutions to ever-increasing issues in these areas. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It will be equally important to address violence in the family with more effective interventions than it is currently possible. This is not only about legal changes, but also about a new kind of cooperation between courts and security authorities and an effective assistance to victims of violence. In the field of internal security, it is about a rational criminal law and enforcement policy in the service of effectively combating crime, improving the protection of victims and the sustainable resocialisation of people who have become criminal. The instruments proposed in the 1996 Criminal Change Act are to address organised crime in its financial centre by freezing and ultimately draining its illegal profits. Parliament will shortly be discussing the following serious preliminary work, such as, in particular, wide-ranging discussion within the judiciary, the Criminal Law Seminar of the Judicial Association, a public inquiry, a very normal review procedure and, finally, in an interdisciplinary working group, proposals on how, of course, the State can take effective action against organised crime through the use of new technical investigation methods, while respecting fundamental rights. We are involved – and I believe we have succeeded in this with our draft – in the balance between the necessary efficiency improvement and the equally necessary maximum protection of fundamental rights. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This law is an advance on the due and, as I believe, reform of the criminal procedure in this legislative period, which is intended to put the criminal police investigations on a contemporary and legal basis. On the other hand, on the subject of criminal law, where it is about minor delinquency, we will present a concept for simplified and alternative handling of such violations, a divisional concept in which the interest of victims in rapid reparation is to be taken into account. Part of this concept will also be the out-of-court settlement that has been successfully practised in adults for some time, which we will further develop and put on a legal basis, but which will require additional human and financial resources to be carried out throughout Austria by means of probation aid. New tasks arise with regard to the participation of Austria in the European Union. As a result of the freedoms in the movement of goods, capital, services and persons and the increasing economic linkage it is necessary to ensure the economic location of Austria in an integrated Europe of harmonisation of economic legislation. We are concerned not only with the rapid implementation of existing EU law, but above all with actively bringing the Austrian position into the European Union's legal development. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is not possible for me, at the speaking time at my disposal, to address all the judicial projects. I have therefore prepared a further brochure on the judicial projects in order to widen the information base and also discussed with the judges of all the parliamentary parties. High house! The recognised high standard of deliberations in the Committee on Justice makes me confident that the legislative period ahead will also be successful. Despite some different views and dedicated discussions, which are now part of the political debate, there is a constructive working environment with a high degree of cooperation in this body. The respect for mutual positions and the will to shape politics on the broadest possible basis make a significant contribution to the fact that, as I believe, the field of justice is an example of the possibilities of modern parliamentaryism. I would therefore like to end by thanking the honourable Members, in particular the members of the Committee on Justice, for the constructive cooperation which has been carried out in recent years and expressing my hope that this successful cooperation will be successful for the benefit of our Republic and its citizens in the XX. This is the first time that the Commission has adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25044	Mr Krüger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25065	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the opinion of the Federal Minister has once again contributed to a cooling of the emotions which have been triggered here by the two previous speakers. After these two speeches, I do not think anyone can say that women or women are more peaceful than men in principle. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No prejudices!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the blockage time available, I would like to limit myself to two main points. The one was already mentioned by Mrs. Dr. Schmidt: Sustained by divorce, indebtedness, destruction principle. I can tell you that I too am not satisfied with the current legal situation from the point of view of the practitioner. There is also an incredible incidence of hardness. I have actually experienced the fact that a 48-year-old woman who raised three children as a housewife has been killed in the course of a divorce procedure, separated by suicide, because she has seen that in the divorce process, at best, there is equal indebtedness and, therefore, she becomes a loss of maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen! In practice, there is actually only the hop or drop principle. Although it is a normal maintenance claim in the ABGB and in the marriage law, which the innocent person has in relation to the guilty spouse, and the maintenance claim in the event of fairness, in the event of the same indebtedness. In practice, however, this provision is never carried out because it is always subsidiary after the use of other dependants. In this particular case, for example, the father of the woman was not at all ineffective, and this one would have been used primarily, so that the lady at 48 years of age and after she had raised three children, would have been really before nothing and depended on the help of her father. This means, however, Mrs. Schmidt, that you should not give the child a bath and not go the German way, which is that there is indeed only one ground for divorce in the Federal Republic of Germany, namely the ground for divorce "savior of marriage". It is precisely this only ground for divorce that "marriage schisters" in practice always leads to really unfair results. There is, for example, the case that on Friday, after a working week or perhaps on Thursday, an assembly worker returns early to the married home and finds his wife not working in a specific profession in the arms of a loved one, and then has to pay support. This is not to be seen specifically now. Of course, the case can be experienced the same way if a woman standing in the civil profession has a houseman to care for. In such cases, it is always quite unfair decisions, where, in the end, the one who is really totally innocent of the failure of a marriage, if one can say that at all, is disproportionately and unjustly used for maintenance. My idea is that one introduces a combined indebted-debted principle and remains in principle with the principle of indebtedness, but creates a basic maintenance, that is not at all a question, for otherwise it will always come to such tragedies as I have described them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly comment on the proposed reform in connection with the closure of the small district courts. The legislative process that has been observed here is indeed remarkable. Thus, the Government's proposal for a law of the Federal Government to amend the transitional law is contained in the Government's proposal. The transitional law provides that the state governments may veto if the Federal Government orders the closure of a district court. According to the proposal for a law in the original government template, such an obligation of consent is no longer available, and the Federal Government can also decide against the will of the countries in spite of consultation of the state governments. This is the Government template Supplement 72. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is a legislative proposal from the Committee on Budgets by my colleagues from the government, Gartlehner and Mühlbachler in Upper Austria. The fact is that, interestingly, it is not possible to reach a decision now because the Committee's legislative proposal is obviously no longer the subject of the agenda and should no longer be voted on. I'm wondering now: Why is there even this parallelity between the Government's proposal and a completely correct request from the Budget Committee? I can only explain it this way: They now wanted to bring this over in the course of the general Husch-Pfusch procedure, but they did not deny the Federal Council the opportunity to object to this federalism-absorbing law proposed by the Budget Committee, otherwise the Federal Council would have been forced if there were only one government proposal to reject the entire government proposal. We are now at the very heart of the problem. I personally am a follower of the small district courts – I mean, of course, all district courts – because there are judges who are able to establish peace in a particular place. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You can see that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You will remember the Judge Joyful!]] Mr Khol, you may save yourself a short time from your calls, because so much so ex cathedra as a distinguished university teacher so to do down from above, I think that is not the way you should become yourself here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You'd like that!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As you say that I work with the District Courts, I can also trust you, Mr Khol, that I have successfully brought down a law with seven constitutional court complaints which you have decided here. That's just by the way, Mr. Khol. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The small district courts also have the function of subtracting capacities from the central courts in the cities. That's not a question at all. I can tell you one thing: For example, if you want to submit a divorce application to the Linz District Court and are seeking a quick appointment as a lawyer, you can expect that you may have this appointment in two or three months. In practice, however, it has always been decided that jurisdiction agreements should be made, which provide for the use of so-called small district courts, where the procedures will then be dealt with quickly. This, of course, also applies to other materials where appropriate judicial agreements can be concluded. In fact, Mr Khol, this is perhaps a completely split situation here in your ranks, because on the one hand there is the request in the Committee on Budgets, which provides for the closure of the District Courts, and on the other hand, your heads of state, such as former Raatenböck, now Pühringer in Upper Austria, speak against it massively. This is the split tongue, Mr Khol, with which the ÖVP has to speak more often here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Khol! Now, instead of making sumptuous interim reports, you can speak and clarify this contradiction. In the country, you proclaim federalism, and here you speak the word to centralism. There is a real need for information. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are, I believe, constitutional lawyers. Please explain, Mr Khol, how this law or the amendment of this law is compatible with the principle of federalism, how this law is compatible with the national principle, as this law is compatible with the spirit of the Perchtoldsdorf Pact, which has not been implemented at all, if one simply withdraws from the country's competences in order to be centralist. There, Mr Khol, you need an explanation. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the non-coalition area which Mrs Fekter, whether she is a member of the Committee on Justice or not, has mentioned. It wishes for a larger coalition-free space. I hear the message well, but the time is obviously too late for it, because that is part of the Government Pact. Ladies and gentlemen! This general clause, which you have in mind, is not worth the paper on which it is written. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact – and you know that, Mr Khol – it was a pleite first rank of your own person, because after the elections you came out here and said: A "coalition new" must come here, a coalition-free space. Mr Khol, what has become of it? – A coalition-free Broomkammerl! That is what you feel to the honourable Member in this House and also to your own Members. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should speak and say how you want to resolve this contradiction in the question of the non-coalition area, but also in the question of the district courts, as there is, for example, a letter from the head of state Pesendorfer, the right hand of the head of state Pühringer from Upper Austria, which speaks vehemently against the circumcision of federalism in the countries from the principles I am referring to in a similar form. But not to mention entering and browsing in your books. Turn out and explain to the House why you have tabled a legislative proposal from the Budget Committee, although it is consistent with the Government's proposal, and explain to the House why this item has suddenly been set aside. On yesterday's agenda on Aviso this is true, Mr Khol. Now you would have the opportunity to make it clear to the House and to explain what is the reason for this objection. But there is no question at all that you are not concerned with strengthening federalism. As a Tyrolean, they should be interested in helping the federal principle to break through. But you are proclaiming this in Tyrol, and here in Vienna you speak the word to centralism – dual tenacity first order!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25187	Mr Khol has been reported to be correct. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25211	Mr President. I am correcting the previous speaker's statements in two ways by confronting the wrong situation with the right one. I was addressed as a distinguished professor. I am not selected, but I am a university lecturer who is not in a service relationship with the title of an extraordinary professor, i.e. a title without means and not chosen. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You deserve more?]] The second correction is: It was said that there was a request from the Committee on Budgets to propose the abolition of the small district courts. I would like to say the right thing about this: The Constitutional Transitional Act is to be amended in such a way that the word "consent" is replaced by the word "audible".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25273	After this actual correction, Mrs Bures has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25294	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at the statements made by Mr Fekter, who said – I would like to repeat this statement briefly – that: "As long as I am chairman of the Justice Committee, the value-conservative attitude will always be recognizable." Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I would ask you to inform Mrs Fekter that, of course, her own value-conservative attitude does not go without saying that the Committee on Justice, as well as this plenary, is a democratic body in which the position of the chairmen alone is crucial. In this context, I would like to maintain - and this is quite clear - that we Social Democrats will always be committed to a progressive and modern reform process throughout the field of justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Whatever that means, Mrs. Colleague! Progress is going in all directions! You must define progress, Mrs Colleague. A tormented vocabulary! You have to say what progress is!]] Federal Minister! I would like to express my sincere thanks for the draft work programme, which will, of course, be the subject of discussion, but I hope that this work programme has two points, two important areas which I would like to highlight today. The first area concerns housing. Living is a basic need for people, and it is precisely because of this that it is so necessary to have a legally clear attitude to do so. However, the housing market is in a voltage ratio. There are in this housing market on the one hand those looking for a roof above the head, with as modern as possible equipment and, above all, affordable prices. And on the other hand, there are some on this housing market who often see this as a welcome opportunity for lucrative business. This imbalance between housing seekers and landlords requires legal provisions that protect the weak, namely the tenants and those seeking housing. That is, it is about adaptations to protect the tenants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very central point of the tenant protection is the questions of temporary rental. ==References== While the Law on housing rights has brought improvements, particularly in the area of short-term lease contracts, the objective of a social housing policy must be to reduce in principle rental contracts with an expiry date. Temporary leases are also major financial problems for tenants, but also for people. This means the laborious search for a new stay, another move, further deposits, redundancies and commissions. There are also other adverse effects, as it is also about the loss of social ties, of which children in particular are particularly affected, for which it is a real problem to have to switch schools, kindergartens et cetera. And the fear of the loss of the apartment, which originates in temporary leases, also leads tenants not to resort to the rights to them. Insecurity and fear must not have lost anything in the area of housing, and temporary leases should therefore be largely abolished! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Proposals in this context, as formulated in the work programme, namely the legal possibility of further, at least several time-limits, would, in my opinion, go in the wrong direction. ==References====External links== The law on housing rights was clear that a certain period of observation had to be granted and then discussed adjustments and any additions. This period, I would say, is now met by two years. I would therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to take the necessary talks quickly in the interests of a federal right of residence and, above all, in the interests of the protection of tenants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area I would like to briefly outline today, which has also been mentioned, is the reform of divorce law. The debate on this reform is about pushing back the principle of indebtedness, the obligation to participate in housework, the introduction of a care balance and also the issue of a common care obligation of the parents after divorce. I believe that it is a good approach if you propose to set up a working group on this matter for these reforms and for the implementation of one measure or another. I would, however, like to outline in two points, especially as regards the discussion on common care, what this really looks like, namely, how far in a household the care of the fathers is actually perceived in the face of genuine marriage and common child. There is a statistics on the daily distribution of household work and the time spent on childcare. If you take out the age group of the 30 to 34 years old, you can see that for housework and childcare, men and fathers spend 1.5 hours a day. On the other hand, women in the same age group have over six hours of daily time for these activities. The second point expressing the actual perception of child care is the possibility of taking advantage of the karenz leave. Not even 1 percent of the fathers go on a karenz vacation and actually make use of this possibility. As regards legal changes in the field of care, I would like to conclude with a quote from Benard and sleepers who ask the question of the "new fathers" and then write: "In the soup pot of male egoism, there were some but not in sufficient quantity to improve the taste. – And certainly not in sufficient quantity to justify a keyword, let alone a new case law."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25359	Mr Graf has now been notified to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25380	Mr President. High house! I would like to return to the Structural Adjustment Act on the legal provisions which are the subject of today's debate, to discuss a number of points which have not yet been further explained. Minister! It was already about the merger of the district courts. The federalist element was also addressed. I am also of the opinion that it should be abandoned for a number of reasons, even for the perhaps not rationally understandable reason which we have already come to know in other areas under the name of "Greißlerdeben". This instrument is also actually used to promote rural flight. Of course, we can go on the cost rails in this respect, but I believe that it is also a social policy decision and should be where we establish or also leave some infrastructure. A district court is ultimately also part of an infrastructure. This fact must therefore be taken into account in addition to the argument that the people seeking legal protection should facilitate access to justice. But as a city and as a Viennar, of course, the district court problem is still at a different level. In Vienna, we are just going the opposite way, that of decentralization, with which I am personally also a person who works in a profession of law-friendly representation. In Vienna, it is decentralized. This is in itself a good moment when it pays off from the population density, but I think it is a gross mistake that should be corrected quickly. I gave your opinion on this last year in the address of the government and pointed out that there are unsustainable conditions. So there are dishes, such as in Döbling, five-house, favorites who have no right of disability at all, dishes that can only be reached up to 15 stages. An unsustainable state in modern times! In addition, permanent construction measures are being carried out in these courts. The district courts, especially those mentioned above, have been very familiar with my professional activity for many years only as a construction site. There are permanent construction measures, without taking into account the right of the disabled to compensate for this class of citizens, which is admittedly or undisputedly disadvantaged, in competition with others. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this is a social policy task which the Minister of Justice must also face. It cannot be so in the future that the entry point can only be reached by several stages. Another example: ==References====External links== Districts are located on the third floor, but there is no lift available. These are old buildings, but the space for a lift would be available. I think there is an acute need for action, and it would finally be in contact with the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to eliminate this abuse. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another manko is the really bad transport connection of these district courts. The Döbling District Court is not at all connected to the public transport network, it is only accessible by bus via the Krottenbachstraße, where you have to climb a mountain. Only in this way can you come to the old, though beautiful castle. This district court is also currently a construction site. I believe that this is not exactly the access to the right that you want. The district court in the fishing area is also badly connected. There must finally be something to happen. You can't simply build the district courts – Josefstadt is an exception, there you have taken over an old court building – in any place, and then the population and the members of the legal professions have to return to a wide range of paths, which are associated with costs. Minister! I think there is also an acute need for action. The locations must also be carefully selected. It is planned, 2nd and 20th. District in foreseeable time or perhaps around the turn of the millennium to set up a district court. One should not make the same mistake there, for example in the selection of buildings or in the renovation of the buildings already under way. I'm sure you can save money. The next point I would like to address is the dispute award for flat-rate fees introduced by the laws adopted today. Minister! You know very well that for not too long this flat rate has been lifted at all. At that time, it was – and I believe it should be today – that this fee should simply be calculable, easily payable or payable, and that this should be calculated not in accordance with the principle of cost truth, but in accordance with the principle of the cost contribution. We now find a situation where this situation is complicated, where the sources of errors are preprogrammed, because it is often not known at all when bringing an action against the constituency and only later. Then there's a postmortem. Minister! I know this from practice, that will certainly be a problem. I believe that there has been a great deal of administrative effort, which is not expected and which does not come any closer to the principle of cost-truth. I would think that it would have been more reasonable, even if moderate – really moderate in this context – to apply the simple calculation mode and the costs linearly to raise a certain percentage, rather than using the schina argument, to also charge lawyers dispute supplements, there to operate. We are not happy with the current regulation, it is ultimately law, but it is possible to delete it if it is to be lifted differently in linear terms. It is not at all clear that if I say that a procedure involving a party to the dispute is more expensive than perhaps one with two members of the dispute or lower ones, or vice versa. I do not see any logic of that unless one tries to spend money with one, may be, beautiful, but, as I mean, unjust reasoning. In my opinion, it would have been easier and easier to decide on a slight linear increase if one had already been obliged to create revenue. Similarly, I am extremely unhappy with the simplified cost recovery for free creditors because it creates creditors of different classes. There are then those who are privileged, preferred, privileged. I think this is a wrong approach. As far as the copy fee is concerned, Mr Ofner has already said very, very much today, but I must say one more thing: It is argued that only 5 S per copy page is required. It must be admitted that it will be de facto 6 S, i.e. by 20 percent more, because it is incorrect cash outlays which are not exempt from VAT. A lawyer who usually receives the copy and also explains the money for it will require the amount to be taxed by his client. Although the Minister of Finance will be pleased, the total costs will be 20 percent. Maybe you didn't think about it, but it's de facto not 5 S, but 6 S. The costs for the applicant will thus be greatly increased, and this in an area where there is an elementary human right to access files. I do not understand, therefore, that it is now so complicated. It will also not occur as the cost-truth – you will see it – will not occur. There are, in fact, legal proceedings in which massive effort must be incurred and the criminal act covers 500 to 800 pages. Assigned: Their number is small. But 150 pages are quite the average of a proper criminal act. This too is quite cost-effective. Besides, you'll get this money back from no one, not even when you're acquitted. Minister! You usually don't get this money back. Then: In turn, it has been forgotten to raise the cost of acquitted accused persons. You could have done that. You know very well that the cost replacement is no longer cost-effective. It would have been possible to raise the cost-refund for the acquitted accuser, who has entered innocently into criminal proceedings, in order to make a few acts of justice, as has been said. To the negligent Krida a lot has already been said, for example, that one could make adjustments there. In my practice at the National Criminal Court in 1987, I did the trial practice, and the judge who cared for me told me quite correctly at the time – and I also followed – that the crime of the negligent Krida had only been subsequently inserted into the criminal law, for a single reason – one should not hide the truth – because one could not normally prove the intent of the fraudulent Krida. However, because it was unsustainable, it was supposed to be right-wing at the time that the Kridatar had to be released without a pre-punity, one invented the trapping stock of the negligent Krida, which usually always applies. This is a sintering procedure which, in my opinion, is ultimately essential. This makes us massively criminalise the population. We know that the number of proceedings and, of course, the amount of insolvency statistics is increasing. I do not think that this has been meant in the course of the introduction of this crime. There's a real need for thought, and there's something you need to change. I call on you to accept this. Perhaps my group will also become a legislative initiative in this regard. We do not want to be like Mr Schmidt, who just goes out and says: The Minister has the responsibility of bringing the law into force by the Minister. No, Minister, you're not the only one who can become a legislative initiative! We too can become legislative initiatives. We in the House should not rob ourselves of the possibility of the legislative initiative, rather we should show the legislative initiative, in all areas where it is useful. I hope, Minister, that we will have you on our side in this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25486	Mr Schrefel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25507	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The strengthening of citizens' confidence in justice as the basis of the democratic rule of law will also be the focus of justice policy during this legislative period. The Federal Ministry of Justice has carried out a comprehensive work programme for the next four years. The present brochure on the work programme of your department, Mr Federal Minister, provides a good overview and good guidelines to think, discuss and shape together with Parliament. Federal Minister! We thank you for the rapid transmission of this work programme, which will really be a good way of dealing with our work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister! We also thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for the good flow of information. Only in this way can we take part in a fruitful democratic development of rights and justice. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA represents austerity policy, but it would be wrong to save on security issues. Today's debates on the Structural Adjustment Act, Chapter Public Service, have repeatedly expressed the desire that other solutions be found in the areas of the security of the citizens of that country. In my opinion, this is a rational criminal law and enforcement law and policy in the service of effective crime control, improved victim protection and sustainable resocialisation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the last point. Major incidents such as the Otto Haas case in 1993 and the Franz Stockreiter case, which took place on 4 October 1993. April 1995, i.e. a year ago, during a therapeutic conversation, during which his therapists were murdered, a great deal of attention and criticism of the execution of the sentence sparked. The establishment of an interdisciplinary Commission has led to the preparation of proposals by the Federal Ministry of Justice, whose results are available to us, and in my opinion it is their implementation, in order to prevent, in the future, wrong decisions in the event of a conditional dismissal, second in the outcome and third in the course of their release. This is not only about the legal regulations, but also about their implementation. In my opinion, the judicial guards are also particularly required. While the Commission assumes that the final responsibility for decisions on reliefs lies with the head of the institution, only: The judicial guards have daily dealings with the prisoner and therefore know him in all situations of execution. They also have the ability of psychological assessment due to their experience. The involvement of the judiciary in the decision is therefore not only necessary in the interests of the case, but also serves the motivation of the judicial guards. That means that more motivation means greater use and brings better results of the execution of the sentence. In this sense, the planned increase in staff is also to be welcomed in the execution of the sentence. I also have a positive assessment of the project of a law of enforcement, which is under review. This will be carried out by means of the measures for the removal and the search of persons for security, including the security of officials who also need to be protected. The creation of such opportunities for officials certainly also serves the motivation, which is particularly important in the execution of the sentence. Finally, a word on the much-discussed closure of the district courts. Although the transitional law of 1920, which has already been discussed in the Committee on Budgets, is not on the agenda of today's meeting, the issue of the merger of district courts is to be discussed. I, as a Lower Austrian, can only bring in the experience of my federal state and I can say that by combining district courts, efficiency increases and savings can be achieved, but they have not led to a reduction in the legal protection of the population. From the point of view of Lower Austria, the combination has at least proved successful. This was done in agreement with the head of state, and the freedom of decision of the country was therefore in no way questioned, Mr Krüger, who unfortunately is not here now. I'm sure you're not allowed to shave everything over a comb. One must take into account local circumstances, and one must also not simply pass over the communities. I am convinced that there will be a good solution in discussions between the Ministry of Justice and the Heads of State concerned and that in no way will the federalism of the country be strained for a fee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25567	Mr Schöll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25589	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on individual previous speakers. Mr Fekter, President-in-Office of the Justice Committee, has here – one of our previous speakers has already responded – wished for more non-coalition space. I think that's what we all wish for. On the other hand, if you look more closely at the Coalition Convention, you will be aware of this – very small laws inside, where this is not supposed to be the case. An example of this is, for example, the right to build-up. I was very surprised that there was such a limit and a narrowing of myself. This should by no means lessen the content of this legislative matter. There is certainly a need for action on the one hand for consumers, on the other hand for the professionals concerned. I am surprised, however, that one says on the one hand, please very much, let us have more space for more objective solutions, on the other hand, one gets involved in such small laws. This also applies to rental law, where one has actually made the finding laconically, and we will continue for some time the effects of the 3. WÄGs, the housing law amendment law. Of course, the Federal Minister for Justice has little responsibility for this, because, as we all remember, this has been done in the Building Committee at the time, in the construction sector – although, of course, under the involvement of the Ministry of Justice. I could imagine that if it had been dealt with in the field of justice at the time, we might have been left with a lot of things. The complexity of the right of residence is that there are many provisions which are incomprehensible and sometimes no longer applicable – for example, when you think about the right of property, especially in combination with the right of rent – that there are legal uncertainties here, which has enabled everyone to experience more or less clearly. However, I would like to say one thing to my colleague Bures – unfortunately she is not here, but I would like to pass it on to her. I am a value-conservative attitude, as Mrs Fekter said earlier here, of course much better than if one wants to demise the consumer today – and this is practically every tenant – and if one wants to agree with him that only an indefinite rental contract is the only true and right solution. I would like to make it quite clear that from the point of view of the liberals I would like to contradict it, even if the Federal Minister for Justice has already made a clear and reasonable statement on this matter at a recent hour. He said he could at least imagine – that will be necessary by next year at the latest – a term of six years. At the time, I meant: Let us stay for ten years, as is already the case in the case of property law today. So there will really be a great need for action in this respect, but what surprises me is not very fast with it. It's probably going to be here again, as it was then, unfortunately, at the time. AGAINST the case, one hastens to decide, in panic, necessary provisions that could have been discussed in peace before. However, I would not like to narrow down what the Federal Minister for Justice has succeeded in following the usual tradition: It is an objectively more correct attitude to reach a consensus – and that is what we have seen at last in broker's right, where this positive style, although unfortunately a little too late, has been in the foreground – to save many years of negotiation behind closed doors once again, when you deal with this important matter in good time – which concerns many levels of population. I would like to say thank you very much to God in the sense of the traditional tradition in the field of justice, and I would like to continue, as I believe, to say. To the Structural Adjustment Laws. – I am neither a judge nor a lawyer, nor a notary or a prosecutor. I actually see these structural adjustment laws in the field of justice more about the consumer's waiting, and I would like to say that: The right will be more expensive, and this will be borne in mind by the citizens, who, of course, are already paying taxes on wage and income taxes in the State bags. Some things are certainly justified – that has already been done today – and can be understood and accepted in general. Some, as unreasonablely high rates of fees, will not be accepted; my previous speaker, Dr. Graf, has already given a clear answer to this. One thing seems essential to me: that two people's wishes expressed by practice are gradually fulfilled or quickly fulfilled. Many people are eagerly waiting for a judicial decision for a long time, and if they are still to take increases in fees, they will all the more reluctantly wait for it. There is a real need for faster procedures to be pursued, faster judgments can be made here. Perhaps you can make efforts in this direction. In criminal law, a majority of the population expects more protection of the victim. Since, I believe, there will also be a high priority need for action here in the House if there are not to be any curious situations, because we are actually dealing with the perpetrator only, while the victim, who is not only the sufferer in his own body, may have to bear costs. [[Ass @info/ plain]] This is really a dissatisfaction, and here too I trust the understanding of the Minister of Justice and hope that we can move on soon. And if we talk about trust: The Minister for Justice once said that justice should always acquire citizens' trust practically every day. That's absolutely right. All the more necessary it is to put so many things in place here, so that this confidence continues to exist. It is only then, if the confidence of citizens is given within the framework of justice, that which is certainly not only a concern to us liberals, but what all the political groups probably want: that justice continues to receive the importance it has in our country today, so that democracy can also find the necessary support in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25652	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25673	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Citizens will only trust justice if they get to justice quickly. I agree with the opinion of my predecessor here. I'd like to get a little bit now. In 1989 the Chamber of Labour in Salzburg discovered the largest financial scandal in Austria, with over 25,000 victims and more than 3 billion schillings. After seven years, the first main proceedings will be held after the preliminary investigations have been completed. The procedure itself will be a test of the functioning of the rule of law in the area of so-called economic crime. After many efforts, but also pans, the indictment, except for former prosecutor Dr. Graff, who was able to withdraw from justice, has become effective. There are now a number of issues relating to criminal proceedings, but also to the numerous bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, as well as to the civil law procedures, which were partly conducted as a model procedure. We ask ourselves, for example, why the criminal proceedings were restricted to the aspect of infidelity. Fraud and negligent Krida were not used to our amazement. According to our assessment, investors' chances of obtaining at least theoretical claims for damages are significantly deteriorated. This stepmotherly treatment of investors is not limited to the indictment. It is already heard by the court that in criminal proceedings, in principle, the claims of private parties would not be agreed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is a position which is highly questionable and which we will continue to question. In the field of bankruptcy and winding-up procedures, one of the following should be noted: These bankruptcys tend to end. Most of the legal issues have been clarified. Controversies were extended until the end of the year. Now, of course, the question is: What do the investors look like? Because to say one thing very clearly: Some investors will all lose their deposits. On the state of the civil proceedings, one thing would be to mention: We would not have gotten that far if the Chamber of Labour Salzburg had not taken over the process cost in many cases. We have received a lot of new and directional justice. For example, with regard to the disses in credit financing. A uniform case law in Austria will generally be identified in this regard. Some questions are, of course, still open. In particular, the question of prospectus liability, but also the question of the liability of the former Supervisory Boards of the Trustee Conzentra. No decision has yet been made here. The Salzburg Chamber of Workers has a pattern process, and one thing must be said: If the liability is confirmed here, the Supervisory Board will not be so easy in the future, but will represent a responsible position with many obligations, whose non-compliance can trigger claims for damages. Well – the morals of this story: Investment is not just a matter of trust. The grey capital market is full of tricks and also criminal elements. However, there are also conclusions on the judicial system. For investors, i.e. the injured persons, it is difficult to wait seven years for a main negotiation, especially since in this procedure, we believe that it is also necessary to decide on the private rights – and that is hundreds of people – to do so. The work programme of the judicial body provides for the continuation of the work on the renewal of the judicial system, in particular the use of information technology. I expect that this will lead to a significant acceleration of the various procedures, particularly in the criminal field. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, reform approaches in the field of justice can now not only be limited to Austria. Austria has been since 1. 1. 1995 is a full member of the European Union, with all rights and obligations. Cooperation with the other EU Member States on judicial matters is therefore required, but there is also a need for independent initiatives by Austria in the field of legal harmonisation and harmonisation. By removing border barriers, any EU citizen in each Member State can acquire almost unlimited goods and services. But, ladies and gentlemen, this single market is not yet the internal market of consumers. If a person is buying in another country, he is putting himself at a legal risk where he does not know if he can enforce his claims accordingly. Therefore, in the event of cross-border legal problems, it will be necessary to be equipped with appropriate legal instruments to combat, for example, competition infringements. In the future, there will be the possibility of injunctions to ensure that consumers have access to the law in Europe. Austria, however, has also taken advantage of the national scope for action. I can only remind you of the Time Sharing Directive or of the distance selling directive under discussion, which is that Austria also represents its own position towards the other EU Member States. To the Time Sharing Directive: We expect a time-sharing law, which is simply about protecting consumers from abusive conditions. You may be aware of the situation if they are "killed" in Spain when "keiler" comes to you and persuade you to enter into such a contract of use: You will then usually find in the general terms and conditions the "Legal Court Lisbon" or according to the law of the Isle of Man. These are business conditions that we can no longer accept for Austria and no longer want to accept. To the distance selling directive: If this is actually the case with the Conciliation Committee in Brussels, it will be a question of having a clear position on the question of self-medication and the question of the dispatch of medicinal products. In this respect, national states are expressly granted their own scope for action. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But we also have the task of developing very clear positions in the main committee. I am aware of the Commission's annual programme for 1996, and there are numerous proposals on which to comment. I only recall the comprehensive issue of legal problems and information society. The Commission has announced that it will deal with financial services in particular. However, it will also be the task of the main committee to refer clearly to this Europe-wide guarantee and customer service directive and in the sense of the Austrian consumer position. In addition to this Europe-wide dimension, however, it is also our task to meet the requirements in the national field. The work programme and the Coalition Convention give rise to a completely clear area of activity. I would just like to say a word on the environmental liability issue, on the reform of cooperative law, in order to redefine the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board, to define control rights and information obligations to members. I would like to remind you very briefly of the forthcoming consumer protection novels and the reform of the right of guarantee; Residential law, time-sharing, but also the builder's law has already been addressed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, numerous builders have gone bankrupt and trustees have also disappeared. You may know the problem: Lease seekers pay trustees to purchase an apartment. What's going on? The builder goes before completion and transfer in bankruptcy, the legal friend, i.e. the trustee, finds the customer's payments no longer on his account or he is submerged abroad. That is why I say that the construction law is the first step. We also need to be clear about this in principle, and we need to question the existing rules of trust. We have to ask ourselves: Are these regulations still appropriate today? A profession, ladies and gentlemen, has recognised this problem: the Austrian notaries. The establishment of the notarial trust register will improve the protection of contracting entities. This registration ensures that there is sufficient insurance for defects in art. But even for human failure of the notary because of criminal offences against suspicious property offences, clients are protected by a trust damage insurance. But unfortunately, and I say this very clearly, there is not yet in the field of the attorney's office. Here there is a legal trust manual, but only on a voluntary basis. Only those lawyers who have completed a major liability insurance of up to 4.5 million schilling can participate, and – that is very important for consumers – there is no liability at all for misdemeanors. I believe that Parliament's task is to protect the Austrian population from property damage. I therefore believe that we should not, at the level of this representation of interests, exclude a legal regime. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Civil law claims can always be more easily enforced if adequate and complementary administrative provisions, such as regulations under the Commercial Code, exist to protect against health and property damage. This makes it easier to enforce product liability claims, for example. Therefore, when we talk about judicial policy, we also need to discuss these necessary administrative standards. This is the only way to ensure access to justice in acceptable time. However, if one seeks his right, it is not necessarily necessary to seek courts or to enter proper proceedings. In Austria, there is the good institution of the conciliation bodies, which, among other things, have the task of contributing to the discharge of the courts. In addition, they have the task of carrying out preventive information and advice activities in matters and matters of local competence. Unfortunately, this task is almost always underestimated. It is precisely by providing legal information that a significant part of the cases can be laid down by agreement of the parties before the courts ad acta and can thus be prevented from economic costs. What is the situation in Austria? – There is always the keyword of the so-called task reform in the municipalities. And now some mayors think that they could also recruit these censures in the course of this "reform of tasks". This includes, for example, the mayor of the city of Salzburg. I say to you here that we, as social democrats, will be taking all the necessary measures to combat the disfellowshipping of these conciliation bodies. Finally, I have one last word to say: We Socialists support the development of law and the further development of our legal system. Right should not be used as a keyword. Citizens must be able to come to their right and enforce their rights in an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25789	Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25810	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have now listened with great attention to this debate – this highly interesting debate, I must say. In the first place, I have led two speakers to take the floor here. On the one hand, this was my previous speaker, Mr Maier, whom I would like to give right in many areas which he has adapted here, particularly as regards the need to extend consumer and consumer protection in the EU and cross-border regulations. I really think this is an absolute requirement and can only underline what he has discussed earlier. The second area in which I have also been very concerned, and which I have always intended to address, is the question of the functioning of the rule of law with the aim of trusting in justice, periods of investigation, justice and opportunities for those concerned to actually come to justice. Mr Maier has rightly addressed the WEB affair, which, I believe, is quite a model example of this question which is not so easy to answer. Minister! It is also clear to me that there are limited possibilities on the part of the judicial authorities. A second procedural area could be attached in addition to the WEB topic, namely the road construction issue already well known in this House. We are also experiencing about the same duration, even there is a sampling procedure with great difficulties for the investigating judicial authorities, this extreme task in fact, in terms of quantity and quality of the necessary investigations and procedures. This is a situation that may lead to the following – this is just a prognosis, I don't want to presuppose anyone –: If one assumes that that process, which was held in Innsbruck in the autumn of last year and is now before the highest courts, was only the first step in this issue – for example, further charges were delegated to Graz, where further surveys were needed – then it must be expected that not about six or seven years will go to the country until this issue is hopefully finally and penetratingly clarified, but that we will probably need a complete balance sheet until the turn of the millennium, until an overall balance sheet, can be put under this topic. It is, of course, very difficult for some people affected to live with it for this period of time. This also makes it very difficult, however, to meet this model effect as regards the role of a possible legal appeal to stop possible infringements. On the one hand, I can only support Mr Maier's approach. The second speech that moved me to take the floor was Mrs Fekter's speech. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I can understand that!]] I have rarely been so clearly and clearly summarized in a 15-minute concentrate, how much and at what huge pace this Austrian People's Party has changed. Take a look at Mrs Fekter's speech and the subsequent statements of the liberal mandates: There has been an shoulder closure in the thematicization of individual areas. There has been an shoulder closure in the line of reasoning over wide areas. There has been an end to the socio-political evaluation of certain issues and the popular and populist outrages of certain content. And finally, there was the logical desire of both sides – what does "both sides" mean?, actually, it is a page! –: In the field of justice, let us develop the coalition-free area. I believe that these parties wish that the speaker Fekter and the speaker Krüger would like to wish that, because there is already a similarity, which has actually surprised me in this decision and has also made me sad. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Don't you wish that? Don't you want a coalition-free room?]] Mrs Fekter! Now I'll tell you a detail, but I'm not going to call any names. I am in Upper Austria last Friday with representatives of the Upper Austrian Church together and have judicial questions... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Where was the sound?]] Mr Krüger! I want to go Your arguments really don't come in. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was a question, that was not an argument! I don't think you can answer it!]] So I discussed matters of justice with church representatives. You know, something has been said to me – and I understand it very well – that this legal line, for example, in the area of minority protection, as Mrs Fekter has addressed here and how she always publicizes the Clubobmann of the ÖVP – of course – in the field of protection age, that this has absolutely nothing to do with a Christian-social line and that the Church can no longer identify itself with this policy. [[Abg. Wormitzer: You will teach us what is Christian-social!]] And I understand! I am sure that many of the electorate of the ÖVP will also come to this turning point towards populism, towards the right very quickly and very early, Mrs Fekter! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This black and blue shoulder clasp will somehow become a little impoverished with the addition: Well, the issues of protection age and equality of minorities are certainly also a subject. There are other values and reviews, but above all you have different priorities. – I am sure that if it went to you, we would have these other priorities over years. You will always find a new theme that will prevent us from actually ending discrimination against the population, especially because you – and this can only be an electoral argument, which can only have electoral backgrounds – from finally having to confess colour where you are actually standing. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter! The summit for me, however, was your execution on the subject of noise attack. That was a loose side-set, according to the motto: cut off, done, What is it?, Which fundamental rights?, Which civil rights? – I don’t understand what basic democratic understanding that should be. I can't go with that anymore, Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Go to the Subcommittee! We have set up a subcommittee for this purpose. Or did you miss this, Mr. Collegue?]] I think it is remarkable how you are going about a historically crucial development in this country, about a development in which Austria is on the verge of giving away. They represent it as if it were any small thing that is being discussed here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is about no more and no less than fundamental rights and citizens' rights. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With you there is only crime in road traffic!]] I would like to ask Mr Klubobmann Khol: What about the election promise that in the opinion of the ÖVP, there can only be a noise attack if a comprehensive reform of the state police is taking place? What does it look like? Are you still standing for this election, Mr. Klubobmann Khol? Or are you afraid that this pressure for reform in the state police will eventually be overrun by military intelligence services and thus also by the information spheres of ÖVP and FPÖ? Is that what you fear in your party, or are you still standing for this election promise? – Mr Klubobmann Khol! You certainly need massive explanation! What I would like from the Minister for Justice, that would be the clarification of a very specific question. Yesterday, in an Austrian daily, there was a very interesting report on the environment of noise attack and grid arrest in the European equinox, in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" entitled "The Police Also Interested in Sexual Life". This is a half-paged article on the issue of Austria's integration into the Europol area, and this, of course, also concerns noise attack and grid investigation as a clear prerequisite for this apparently necessary integration into Europol. This article cites a 16-page document on Europol entitled "Europol – Draft Implementing Provisions for Work Files for Analysis". I'm now quoting the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "This 16-page paper is based on the personal data with which Europol or the Brussels Central Computer can be fed in the future – "not just name, date of birth, nationality, pre-punishment or conviction. Furthermore, Europol appears to want to feed its computer with data on family and intimacy. As listed under point 3 of the paper: 3.1. Racial origin. 3.2. Political views. 3.3. Religious or other beliefs. Point 3.4. Health information. Point 3.5. Sexual life information." "Austrian police officer", the "Salzburger Nachrichten" continues, "will get this data from 1. It will be easy to raise it if Parliament agrees with the Government's proposal for a noise attack, foreclosure, and for the procrastination regime." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If this report is a reality if the actual investigation needs and file requests are in the field of Europol, then the provision of these data, which does not concern any state, can only be made with noise attack and grid arrest. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you believe everything in the paper?]] It is only possible to do so if actually cheeks can be mounted in the bedroom of any personality in this country. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter found this to be a laugh. I think it's sad. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore turn to the Minister of Justice, whose scepticism I have heard over the last two years on the subject of noise attack and grid arrest, which has repeatedly been critically involved in this debate and has brought to the fore in a question and in public statements what it is really like, namely that what is planned here is a massive intervention into fundamental rights! I expect and wish the Minister of Justice to say today in this debate whether there has already been preliminary discussions with the Ministry of Justice with Europol, whether there is already a dialogue with the Ministry of Justice with Europol on these details of requests for investigation, whether there is agreement from the Ministry of Justice and how this data should be collected in the future if Europol is to become reality in these intended details. I do not only expect a Minister of Justice to answer such questions, I would also expect a chairman of the Committee on Justice to pass through them not salopp over these crucial civil rights, but that this is a central issue for them – and not just populism on legal issues. [[Abg. Mr Fekter: In the subcommittee we will debate this!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25976	Mrs Huber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e25997	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Budgetary resources for consumer protection are allocated to the health budget. However, as a classical cross-sectional matter, very important laws are passed to improve the situation of consumers in the health, economic, agricultural, environmental and justice sectors. Consumer protection today faces a variety of new tasks and also new problems. I mention here only the whole problem of genetically modified foods, the threat of polluting the most important element of life, namely pure water, to new financial services, new forms of supply such as teleshopping or virtual shopping. The consumer, the consumer, is the weakest link in the chain, and we have to create the basis for all that is promised in purchasing contract items or guarantees, not to be merely advertising gags, but also to keep it. If that is not the case, then the right of consumers must be easily and, above all, quickly enforceable. This is about improving existing instruments and adapting them to the new framework conditions. Especially in the EU, especially in the EU, our country must ensure that it continues to have the role of an engine. We do not want to become "driving" and mere supporters of EU rules, we want and we must also co-form them. Our representatives in the EU bodies must become decisive fighters against the lobby of large corporations and agro-industrial complexes. These are ultimately responsible for such disasters as the spread of BSE. In the field of justice, the Realtor's Act is ready to come to the plenary session and will be adopted in the next few weeks, I hope, in this House. While it is a compromise that does not take into account all consumer wishes and not all consumer protection's wishes, it nevertheless brings a better legal situation to the consumer than it has been before. However, overdue is the innovation of the Consumer Protection Act and the reform of the warranty law. I would like to mention here briefly the very central points of the new consumer protection right. This is the burden of proof for defects in a reasonable period of time, the exclusion of a burden on the consumer by sending unordered goods. The time-limit for the right of withdrawal in the case of door-door operations may only begin after a written order confirmation, and there must be a right of withdrawal of contracts concluded at fairs. In the area of the right of warranty, the aim is to harmonise the warranty period for a period of three years. – These are the most important and urgent concerns for improving the status of Austrian consumers. Corrective action is also needed in the case of booming financial services. The jungle in this area, which sometimes poses no significant dangers to the individual investor, must be explored. Personally, it is a special concern that chain letters and pyramid games should be banned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, it is clear that cooperation between politicians, consumer protection organisations and responsible officials at national and EU level must be strengthened. Many positive approaches and successes already exist. But let us strengthen this cooperation for the benefit of consumers in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26058	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26079	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Josef Höchtl is published in the magazine "News", issue No. 15, cited in connection with the debate on marriage contract and marital laws, and he believes that "there is no need for laws for private matters". – Now it could be interpreted that MP Höchtl is for the abolition of marital laws, which are indeed enshrined in the ABGB as valid laws, and which, incidentally, has been noted since 1811. In the general Civil Code, it merely shudders from paragraphs relating to marriage. If you look in the relevant textbooks in the table of contents under "E" like "Ehe", you will find: Marriages, marriages, adultery, matrimonial property law, matrimonial status and so on and so on. - It fills an entire page. Now, many – not only at the host table, but also in political circles – say: We don't need laws in marriage. – In the event of so much ignorance, it would be superior if one should not start an investigation campaign about the institution of marriage. In line with the legal literature, I would propose the following titles: "Marriage as a Civil Contract", with the subtitle: "Drum test who binds himself forever" to strip a word from Schiller's "Glocke". An alternative proposal might be: "The obstinate taming." However, the reorganisation of the budget would be extremely positive, at a multidigital level. I would just like to mention the savings of the offices and the reduction in the cost of legal care in connection with divorces. – But that’s not how it really could have been meant, with all the savings. I think I would agree with Mr Höchtl. My suggestion, however, is: Let us leave all these laws and examine them for their practicality. In the 1970s, patriarchal marriage was replaced by law by partnership marriage, which – and now beware! – not by private contract, but by law. In my opinion, between the will of the legislator and the Judicature, there are still great differences in the division of rights and obligations between spouses in many fields. According to the Central Statistical Office, women work on average for almost one hour more every day, particularly in the case of both spouses' work. One hour daily, which is more than eight working weeks a year, that is, far more than the full annual leave requirement when you work all year round. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is urgently necessary to amend the law on marriage and divorce during this legislative period. The Coalition Convention provides for exactly this further development of marriage and family law. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The law in force only provides in a very general way for the partners to agree on the sharing of rights and obligations in relation to employment, child training and housework. As the practice has shown, this is an imperfect guideline, which does not provide for a standard in the event that no agreement is to be reached. Guidance directives would be necessary, for example, on how to divide income or household work. The complaint of certain orientational standards is not in the foreground – for example, this is not easy for non-violent educational standards – but would play a role in divorce, for example in "crime", and also for legal advice, possibly with judicial pre-charge. Ladies and gentlemen! Another priority in the field of justice, which the Socialist Group believes should be implemented as soon as possible, is better protection against violence in the family, both in genuine marriage and in communities of life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies to better protection against domestic violence directed against children. The focus of the administrative intervention must be on the safety of women and children. In the acute case, the violent person and not the abused woman should leave the home. In order to achieve this, it takes concrete legislative changes to improve the instrument "intermediate order" and the Security Police Act. Proposals for improvements would be: Harmonization of the provision in the execution order ("unbearable") with the provision in the ABGB ("unreasonable"). So far, it is not enough for the imposition of a "immediate order" if the further co-existence is only "unreasonable". Further: Expanding the scope to cover life and other members of the common household. It is also important to decouple the "interruption order" with the application for divorce, which so far has to be filed within three months. Only through amendments to the "intervention order" and the Security Police Act will it be possible to implement another measure, which is enshrined in the Coalition Agreement on the Protection of Violence in the Family Circle. For this purpose, model projects are planned to strengthen cooperation between justice, executives and auxiliaries such as women's advisory services, psychological advisory services, emergency call facilities and so on. In addition, these intervention agencies should assist the family members concerned in judicial proceedings and help them effectively represent their interests. Finally, the intervention agencies should conduct anti-violence training with the perpetrators. For these model tests there are two cities in Austria, and it would of course be nice for me as a Tyrolean MP if a city of those were Innsbruck. High house! Although the area of justice, unlike other areas, is not affected to such an extent of savings, I nevertheless noticed, in the light of the budget estimate for 1996/97, that toughness can occur here too. The admittedly not particularly population-related group of approximately 1200 legal practitioners loses more than 50 million schilling according to the 1996 budget estimate, which is over 25 percent, and the slightly rising numbers of legal faculty graduates! This drastic reduction results from the fact that, according to practice so far, the length of the court year was identical to the length of the calendar year, while now being reduced to nine months, and this has far-reaching consequences for the situation of this group of young academics. The 25 per cent reduction in the number of practical trainings in this field is already a difficult one, but above all the fact that the social consequences of a de facto reduction of 12 months to nine months have a painful effect on the persons concerned, as a result of which they lose the right to unemployment support in the first application, provided that they have not been occupied elsewhere in the most educational and labour-intensive stage, namely the final phase of the study. Ladies and gentlemen! There are certainly very painful savings measures in the various areas of detail of the budget. Each area has, in good Tyrolean said, "to carry its pack", the one more, the other less. But it is precisely in those times when there is nothing to be given but nothing to be done, that we could make more progress on projects that are relevant to society. These laws are difficult to take into account for a cost, but have a decisive impact on the living situation of those affected. . As all of this is set out in the Coalition Agreement, I ask the House to speedily advance these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26176	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26198	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment for another three minutes on administrative reform in the field of justice. It is about the merger of micro-district courts: ==References====External links== It must be changed in October 1920. This was originally intended for the Structural Adjustment Act, but the subject was postponed. – Mr. Dr. Krüger! For me, it is less important why this issue has been postponed. It is crucial that the issue should be re-examined on the agenda in May. The formals are mirror fighting, in the case you have largely missed arguments. It is a question of the state government being heard only more in the future when it changes the explosives of district courts. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in Salzburg, Upper Austria and the Styria, some district courts must combine, including those with less than one judicial post and very short distances between the individual courts. This measure is justified by the aim of creating a more modern, efficient judicial administration. There are then courts which are constantly occupied, which can make a certain specialization and in which representation is also possible in the event of prevention. Of course, these measures are also elements of the administrative reform, of the economical handling of public resources. The accompanying measures are known to you: Basic book facilities for municipalities may be set up with public contracts pursuant to Article 15a, and court days shall remain in the places and notarial bodies. The experience from Lower Austria has presented Mr Schrefel: great satisfaction, no complaints. I do not fully understand the resistance in the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that a few mayors may have been offended due to the supposed loss of prestige cannot be the reason. There are no other arguments. Dr. Krüger, too, did not offer anything. By the way: The story with the arguments is a special one. It was originally meant that the people's security needs were no longer satisfied, they were somehow attached to the protests against the closure of Gendarmerie Posts; a reform which, by the way, proved successful. That was curious and nobody accepted. Individual protests are adventurous: For example, in Mariazell one fears for the legal care of the pilgrims. This is not a joke, ladies and gentlemen. And in the Obersteiermark, a community defends a location with the argument, because in the village a listed gallows to blood justice in the 17th century. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! These are the arguments to preserve identical, close administrative units! – But unfortunately this is not a joke either. I come to the conclusion. The District Court theme, ladies and gentlemen, will be a test stone for the seriousness of reforms, a test stone for Parliament. Let us finally pave the way for a long overdue reform! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26246	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We therefore proceed to the vote on the Justice Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This includes Articles 73 to 78 in 95 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this advisory group to give a sign on this point. – This is decided by a majority. I shall immediately vote on the motion for a resolution on the Committee's report on the submission of a draft law on the revision of the law on rent. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. I note that this motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 5.) This consultation group is, as has been said, done with this. Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act Internals
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26301	We are now negotiating the Internal Advisory Group. It covers Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98. The rapporteur was introduced. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26317	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to ask the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report (95 of the Supplements). Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26338	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. The first contrared woman is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26362	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My colleagues have already pointed out the embarrassing nature of this budget debate and the debate on the structural laws. I can only underline this, because I have also observed this disinterest. It is exactly the same disinterest that I now see. In the same way, it was in the Committee: There was no interest in any parliamentary control, in any parliamentary debate and in any proposals you might make as Members. If one has looked at the action of ÖVP and SPÖ in the Committee on Budgets, then one has really missed every interest of the two parties to intervene in this regard. Instead, take note of everything a minister has to offer you, swallow it down and have no interest at all in changing it. – And that is really very embarrassing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of this, I really wonder: What are you actually entitled to sit here as a representative and a representative of the people? I mean, you have a election order! But how do you live up to your electorate's mandate if you are not at all in a position to participate if you can only say to the Minister how you will vote here in plenary or in committee, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] On various occasions, however, you will cry out to the parliamentarianism crocodile tears! Then you want to make the Austrians always credible that we are damaging parliamentarianism in Austria. – But it is not that way, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People’s Party and SPÖ! They are the ones that break down parliamentarianism in Austria. They are the graves of parliamentarianism. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you're attacking me now, I'm asking you: How else could you decide in a committee a law with far-reaching consequences, but this is not dealt with by the Committee on Budgets, but by the Committee on Budgets? You have also now adopted a law in the Committee, which is linked to the far-reaching changes in Austria, in connection with the road traffic regulations, which the police should take 500 s in the event of damage to property for interfering in this conflict that arises, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's really a scandal, I can only tell you: Because the police are here for the conflict settlement. We know that this Minister of the Interior wants to see the police, first and foremost, as a conflict controller and not as a fight against crime. And in view of this, in the event of a traffic accident in which there are only property damage, the one suffering an accident is to pay 500 s? I don't think that's justified at all! They want to make it possible for the already heavily exhausted citizen to be taken back into the pocket of money, that he must pay even more than he has already done because of the measures you have taken so far. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that is really something where there is a misevaluation of the Minister of the Interior. He thinks he can make 60 million schillings if he cashed 500 s in an accident with property damage the police take. In fact, however, it will be the case that the opponents will go to the police and say that they have suffered a personal injury. There will then have to be an even more extensive accident report, it will not have to be paid, but it will have to be very high administrative costs. That means that this change will become a boomerang. There will be no money, but administrative costs will be very high. That is why we are absolutely against it. I also really believe that the police are not entitled to take money for this activity and that the relationship between the police and the population will also deteriorate. [[Federal Minister Dr. Einm talks to Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Federal Minister, how about you watch out?- Oh, my God!]] However, we must be interested that the relationship is good, that the reputation of the police is up-to-date. But this is exactly the opposite, and that is why we are against it. The annoyance of citizens on this money-raising action that you are planning, Mr Minister, is extremely great! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not even in this law, which occurred in a night and fog action so husch-push, taken care of what is when a third party calls the police. Then who's paying? Does the undivided third party pay? [[Federal Minister Dr. Einm still speaks to Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: The minister doesn't listen at all!]] Mr. Ollinger! Do you like to see someone talk to the Minister when you talk? Do you really like that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] All right, then we'll do it next time. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That is exactly what Parliamentaryism we have been talking about: The Minister is disinterested in what Members say, the representatives of the government parties are not interested in what the opposition parties say. That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister already knows what happens to his proposal for a law. He already knows that there is a party-internal decision to agree – what does he need to listen to a lousy opposition politician? – That is the arrogant opinion of our members of the government, unfortunately God, I must say already! I would like to say something about this criticism: We are not alone with this criticism, but ÖAMTC has criticised the Salzburg government, the state government of Burgenland – they have all pointed out that the introduction of the 500 S fee is a bad solution. Mr. Minister! I have been in Parliament for a long time to know that nothing is going to happen today, but I would like to ask you to: Let at least the 60 million schillings you believe to be going to the executive. If you do not shorten the rewards as you have done now, you will spend of this 60 million schilling on rewards, which you have planned in the general budget for savings – then I could say at least that this money is being done with something useful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The officials really have a right to be rewarded for their good work. After all, they risk life and health when it comes to a dangerous use. And what are you doing? – They cut the rewards. Ladies and gentlemen! You have decided at the committee meeting – and you will do it today – something that causes a heavy grip on the pockets of the Austrians and, I am convinced, whose negative effect is much, much greater than the benefits, and you have decided in the Security Police Act that a one-time false alert, when the police enter, will be charged. I really do not think that is justified! People can be built up alarm systems for a lot of money because they have your mission to protect themselves from crime – we know exactly how sensitive these plants are – and then you already want to cash on the first error of this system. I can't imagine that this will bring in a lot of money, but the relationship between executive and population is once again disturbed when there is room: Once the plant is spinning, we'll have to pay for it. You should be glad that people themselves are protecting themselves from crime, and should actually reward it when alarm systems are installed and not punish as you do now. Third: They also want to amend the law on police compensation, which complements the liability provisions. In future, the Federal Government will no longer be liable for damage caused by measures in the interest of the injured person. We asked for information at the Committee meeting, and you said, Minister: For example, if someone breaks into a business that destroys the expenses, then if that happens at night, until the morning when the business owner is reached, one must guard the business so that it is not looted. I think it really is not justified for you to raise the cost of the executive officer or the guard standing there to the victim. Or: If a door has to be opened when the executive is used, then the victim who has already been damaged must also bear this damage. That's really not to be seen! I believe that, as with all your proposals, you will once again be breaking your suffrages. At that time you said that there are no additional burdens – but now you increase taxes, take up more by 70 billion schillings, and in various other areas you are also in the pocket of citizens, in the case of compensation law, especially those who have already been harmed by a criminal act. What can be done by the business owner concerned for someone to break into his business? It would actually be a duty for the State to ensure that such criminal acts do not occur. I am really surprised that you agree with that by ÖVP and SPÖ. On the whole, you can only say: From all these changes you can read that this is just an effort to get money, because you do not operate properly in your entire area – this is true not only for the Ministry of the Interior, but even for your entire budgeting. You want to satisfy your need for money now in the smallest and most embarrassing way – but you will not get our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26512	The next speaker is Mr Robert Elmecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26539	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the comments made by my predecessor. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé has accused us, the representatives of the government parties, of being the graves of parliamentarianism. [[Demonstratative condolences with the liberals.]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! We firmly reject this accusation, and I am bringing you a counter-example. Yesterday your group with your clubman, Dr. Haider, first called for 16 votes in the name, at the last moment, to be reduced to 6 all, and then Mr. Dr. Haider was not here all evening. With no natural... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] I was here, this is to be read in the minutes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All night long, Dr. Haider was not present at any natural vote, and you accuse us of being the graves of parliamentarianism! That's what happened to the hair, that's lamentary, that's absolutely not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: But he has never been to Romania!]] Ladies and gentlemen! And then the accusation that we have the fee we today in this structural adjustment law... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I've never been to Romania!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! I'd be careful with allegations. The seven court decisions... [[Abg. May. Stadler: And if he had been in Romania, he would have been in better society!]] I have won all the trials in court – apart from you! You didn't win a trial! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now also to the technical accusation... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're a Marionette!]] You are the Hampelmann of Dr. Haider, Mr. Stadler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You are a Marionette of the Minister!]] On the accusation that what we decide here today would never have been reviewed by a committee of experts, I must say: This is the untruth! When the Committee on Budgets was about 60 million schillings, which we are discussing today, the members of the Committee on the Interior were present. They were present as a member of the Committee on the Interior – that is the committee responsible. I do not know why you claim such untruths here! I'll tell you: What we decide today with the Structural Adjustment Act is the continuation of that course – I have already published it – that we say: It is a strange activity when the executives, who are highly trained in criminalism, must be present for photography when it comes to purely material damage. Because that's not what we want! [[Abg. Haigermoser: I was already in Romania with the Toni Benya!]] You said the officials have the right to reward. I am right in this, but obviously you have fallen asleep in the last salary reform, because especially through the salary reform, there are the executive early salaries, of which one could only dream of earlier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we have about 18,000 s in the executive today, we can say that the officials receive a corresponding fee. One only needs to compare this with the A and B officials of the general administration, which I do not necessarily want to do. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Reduce your staff!]] However, I would like to add a few more factual arguments – if you allow Mrs. Partik-Pablé – from my point of view, because for us Social Democrats, "security" is a comprehensive concept. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Keep talking, you're a puppet of the Minister!]] It includes social security, employment security and also protection against crime. We know about the social conditions under which crime arises and see the best means of protecting the population in the creation of social conditions that oppose them. This has succeeded in a good part. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you've been chatting about what the Minister is always chatting!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! I do not have the prepotence to describe the opinion of another colleague here as a "plaudery". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What the Minister is always chatting about!]] You just did that. This is pre-potent, and I have to blame you now!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26733	Mr Elmecker! At all excitements: We never let the expression "prepotence" go through. I would ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26748	Mr President. She referred to my remarks as "plaudery". I take note of the call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26766	This was not a call for order, but a reminder, as I have also recommended to other colleagues, that we should stick to what is appropriate to the dignity of the house.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26782	I'm returning to criminal statistics. The 1995 criminal statistics show that security policy is successful in this country. The current figures of these criminal statistics show that: For the first time in years, the crime rate in Austria has declined. From 1994 to 1995, the total number of criminal proceedings fell by a considerable 3.6 percent – contrary to the precepts made here again and again by the "F". A few details: With the number of murders we have a minus of 9.2 percent; the reconnaissance rate in this area is 95.2 percent; severe body injury: a minus of 3.9 percent; Enlightenment rate: 86.5 percent; fatal injury: a minimum of 14.3 percent; Enlightenment rate: 100 per cent; slight body injury: a minus of 0.1 per cent; Enlightenment rate: 95.4 percent; drug trafficking: a 14 percent minimum; Enlightenment rate: 97.2 percent – have you read the statistics? If not, then do not claim the opposite! –; [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the statistics from the Kirchweger House!]] Intrusion: a minus of 4.9%; Enlightenment rate: 19.8 percent; Auto theft: a minus of 7.0 percent; Enlightenment rate: 20 percent; Robber: a minus of 13.9 percent; Enlightenment rate: 42.8%; Material damage-light: a minimum of 3.7 percent; Enlightenment rate: 24.9%; Slightly damage-heavy: a plus – unfortunately, even if it is thrown out in the statistics – of 12.9 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] We regret vandalism, but we must examine the root of this phenomenon and also ask why young people today are, I would say, often having an disturbed relationship with the ownership of the public. – In this area, the education rate is unfortunately only 42.4 percent. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider and Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, if I do a stroke and calculate the average, I get a reconnaissance rate, which is between 45 and 46 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me the information rate for property crime in Vienna!]] What I want to say with it: In the case of the serious offences, in which the population is rightly concerned, we have an investigation rate, thanks to the performance of security policy and the officials working in this area, which is more than 90 percent. Don't make our country bad, because that's something we can well represent outside! [[Abg. Scheibner: The land is not anyway!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Plaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few figures which I would like to present today on the occasion of the structural debate. Although the great savings package to which we confess together is under discussion in this week and in the next week, we can be in favour of the area of the interior resort – thank God! – notes an increase which is not very large, but is nevertheless noticeable in 1995: 20.4 billion schilling, 1996: 20.9 billion schilling and 1997: 20.96 billion schilling; thus a slight increase. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the police, what you say is unbearable, she's already leaving the ranks, she can't listen anymore!]] We assume that, with this money – economically managed – we can ensure that this country remains as secure as it is at present. Austria is one of the safest countries in the Western world, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The last police officer leaves the house!]] Still a few comments – unfortunately I don't have a lot of speaking time at my disposal –: We have found a very interesting statistics in connection with the Europol drug unit, the so-called EDU, which I would like to mention briefly. Of the 1995 investigations conducted by EDU, 76 percent were related to drugs, 12 percent were money laundering, 4 percent on tow organisations and 8 percent on car shifts. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is precisely here that the emphasis on international cooperation is a very essential element, which could be expanded in the next few years with the help of this budget, should and will also be. A comment on the very often discussed institution concerning our border protection in recent months: The fact is that we have an EU external border. The fact is, we are signing the Schengen Agreement and we are signing it with 1. In July of next year to be ratified. The fact is, moreover, that border protection, the protection of human rights, the protection of human rights, the protection of human Border service has been gradually established in recent years and is being further expanded. In the public debate, it must also be noted that sometimes the presentation, as it is done in the media, is not quite correct. I have found in a "TOP" article that in Austria would be used as tarocking in contrast to Germany under the stamp tree. It is mentioned the federal border protection, which has to protect the green border. The customs authorities are responsible for all customs and micro-transitions, and the border guards think themselves ready for delicate matters. That is exactly what we have found in a long negotiated compromise: The green border is guarded by the Gendarmerie with the border surveillance patrols, the border crossings of the customs offices of the first class, the division of security agents and customs officers and the minor crossings remaining at the customs guard. I therefore also have the accusation of the Court of Auditors that we would therefore set up, not understand and correct a very expensive system. Last comment – the judicial debate has been held before, I would like to add only a short supplement –: From the point of view of the security speaker and also of the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I am glad that we now have the government template entitled new methods of investigation at home, that the Committee on Justice is concerned with this and that representatives of the Committee on the Interior in a subcommittee want to treat and negotiate this very delicate matter. We do not want to shoot out of the hips, but we want to give the security authority, the executives' instruments, which will also enable organized crime to be offered in the future according to Paroli. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26906	The amendment tabled by Mrs Partik-Pablé on the Structural Adjustment Act is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e26931	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the Internal Chapter in connection with the Structural Adjustment Act gives me the opportunity to make a few comments and also to note that the results are known in themselves before the vote is finished – we have learned this lesson more clearly than we loved. I can join colleagues Elmecker in supplementing his comments: He has made a positive statement on criminal statistics. What he has said is true – I agree with him –; he has just not mentioned an inescapable aspect, namely the very clear increase in the area of crimes associated with extreme right-wing and xenophobia, plus 14 percent. This is less to be blamed on the Federal Minister, but I would like to begin by commending this. Point 2 – something that he has also left out – and this is now making the responsibility of the Federal Minister more clear, namely the Enlightenment Rate: a third – in contrast to otherwise 50 percent. That seems to be a lack of execution. The fact that Mr Elmecker has left this out is understandable, because he belongs to the same group as the Federal Minister, but it is simply unskillable to evaluate positive figures so much that they are not mentioned by themselves. The report says it's inside anyway, and we can all read it, and that's why it was important for me to say that from here. Second aspect of the colleague Elmecker: He's been working on the border service. Perhaps he shouldn't have done that, because I realized that the Minister of State has clearly expressed himself on the assistance of the Federal Army: He felt that this was not favourable. I agree with this opinion. It fails, as I can see, to the intra-ringence of the ÖVP. But the conditions for creating a separate area of organization, that a border service can take place at all, which must not be perceived by the German army, have been avoided. That is to say, it has not been built up in this respect, so that at the moment it is manifestly in the practice of the assistance of the German army, in fact, a more or less Ultima ratio, which the ÖVP can then call on. So if you don't have real alternatives, if you don't start a genuinely serious executive reform, if the issue of customs guard is not addressed effectively, if the uniform command structures are not produced and so on, then it is obvious that – and now I don't know who to quote – the value-conservative variant – according to colleague Fekter – or, as I would call it, the structural conservative variant of keeping the federal army on the border for assistance. We think that this is an extreme alienation of military duty, a very worrying thing for democracy, and if so, There are incidents such as the fact that some of the people there are then awarded carnival but yet orders, because they were particularly successful in the refugee hunt, so to speak, this is the anti-democracy flower. These are things that we did not need if we were to launch a genuine reform in the field of executives. And here I express my duty to the Federal Minister, although I know that this is a coalition government. But if such reforms are not achieved in a coalition, then the question of coalition is so to speak, because one cannot justify any unprocessed reform by the fact that it is not possible because it is not permitted by the coalition partner. Then you slowly wonder what remains, if actually the common denominator is only what the other one has not forbidden. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This tends to mean, of course, a standstill, which tends to mean wind silence, and that means exactly what we have before us, namely, such a structural adjustment law, which is just what we call, but in reality – as many of my previous speakers, my colleagues from the Group and I, too, had the opportunity to hold yesterday – is an emergency programme. This is why there are also such heated debates as noise attack and grid arrest, because they have an excellent ability to sidetrack from the real problems. I already hear the argument: Well, this 14 percent increase in the area of right-wing extremism and xenophobia and the low level of education would not be a problem if we finally had these instruments – so to speak, a regulation of the special kind: On the occasion of diverting from the real problems, another real problem is created, namely an attack on fundamental rights. That's exactly what makes me so sad! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You don't like it!]] I do not like it, because these instruments are not really suitable in this field to move, unless one openly confesses that one is willing and willing to collect secret data on computer so that one can, in case of doubt, knock people off: Where does he like to go, what does he like to eat, who are his friends, in which bookstores he buys, which newspapers he subscribes to? – In principle, we reject this as the means of a police state. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] - So an incentive legislation to distract. But now we are in a budget debate, and I can tell you something interesting and calming about what I have found, because in the end what we are debating here today is also a kind of cause legislation: On the occasion of the waste of ten years, we now need an emergency programme. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] In this event legislation, which is now decommissioning water for the burning roof of the budget, noise attack and grid inspection are not foreseen. There are no budgetary approaches, although everyone knows that this would be significant amounts. Interestingly, the House of the Federal Minister assumes that it would be about 70 million schilling for the introduction of noise attack, grid arrest and also optical surveillance. So I very much doubt the amount; I do not think that for 70 million schilling we are getting the audiovisual resources to do all that we want to do. It would be interesting, however, to create a knowledge-based exchange of experience between the Federal Theatre Administration and the Ministry of Interior, for if the Federal Theatre Administration knew that there was so little money to buy audiovisual facilities to the extent, perhaps a new savings potential would be discovered there. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But back to the real topic. This regulation of the Structural Adjustment Act does not, therefore, provide, for 1996 or for 1997, for only a commemoration in the area of noise attack and grid arrest, although we know that this is not only about this 70 million schilling – an amount which I doubt – but also about significant current expenditure. It is estimated that there is an effort for a noise attack on about 1 to 2 million schilling. I'll tell you: You won't get under 100 to 200 million schilling a year if, according to your philosophy, it's supposed to make sense at all, says: 200 to 400 million schilling You have to spend if you want to accomplish what you promised people. I mean, you won't do anything with 200 to 400 million schilling, but according to your philosophy, you'll have to try when you do that. But this is nowhere budgeted! From this I conclude: The cause legislation noise attack and grid search serves to calm people and perhaps also the "Kronen-Zeitung" until 13. October of this year – as we have known in Vienna elections – then the topic is not quite that hot anymore, security in Vienna is then "bought" and "eat", and you can easily go down again, because in the budget – I say this again – it is not standing. And so I doubt the budgetary approaches there or there, because I assume that the economic forecasts that they are based on are not true that there may be an estimate error there or there – we have this in the social context. to be discussed tomorrow; Mr Van der Bellen has, after all, brought us to the fore, once he had believed that it was plausible, and then it was wrong by 30 billion schilling – I think that one has not gone so far as to violate the principle of budgetary truth that one has not even taken a wrong approach to noise attack and grid investigation into the budget, but not at all. That is why I say to you: If you do not want to lose any credibility in any way, then if you decide on these budgets in such a way as you intend to decide on their point and addition, you will not be able to introduce a noise attack in 1996 or 1997 or a grid arrest, otherwise you will have a double loss of credibility: the loss of credibility in the area of fundamental rights in such a way – that is, you may be indifferent; a value-conservative position apparently – and the loss of credibility in the area of budget truth, i.e. a further blow against the economic location of Austria. Because if a budget deliberately abandons entire positions, then you are depriving yourself of suspicion, on and for yourself unscrupulous. Nor will it help you to make exceptions to the noise attack and grid arrest here, namely exceptions for the editorial offices and for the politicians – these are not more precisely defined, they may be the members of this House. Very interesting is this exceptional philosophy, which reminds me of the exceptional philosophy of colporteurs in the rest. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You seem to think that if we already want to fight the organized crime, we have to reserve new forms of company for the organized crime, namely the editorial offices. What do you think the organized crime would happen if you made such an exception? – It would be preferable to create newspapers in Austria, one would do exactly what has been done so far in Tarn companies, which would only be "magazines". So if you provide such exceptions, then you are not even coherent with yourself. If you want to take out politicians, I'll ask you: Why do politicians in your world enjoy a higher protection of fundamental rights than the citizens? That's not democratic. I call for the same fundamental rights protection for politicians, as all citizens of this country enjoy, and no extended protection of fundamental rights! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Since the fundamental rights protection we now have is not the worst, but perhaps something could be improved, I cannot stand by because I hold it while it is taken by everyone else – and that is because I currently have a mandate. This is now – colleague Fekter is not here, I would have liked to get an answer from her – either conservative or structural conservative or both. I'm not quite sure. But it may also be – because it is the Minister of the Interior who is concerned – an additional facet of social-democratic visions, namely those visions that the Federal Chancellor says when he calls after the doctor. I think that this is very worrying, but I hope that the budgetary truth on the part of fundamental rights is fighting; I would be particularly pleased in this case. Against this background, I am not surprised that the police's equipment is still a stepchild, that only a few weeks ago the EBT – that is the force to combat terrorism – has been equipped with computer, and against this background there is a discussion about noise attack and grid attack. That is why I now ask the Federal Minister: In the course of the interview, the quote is in the "profile" of 15. 4. Was it true? [[Abg. Well, that's what I wanted to say.]] I can't believe it. I quote it to you: To the question of what dreams you had entered your office a year ago, you would have said literally: I didn't actually imagine anything at the time. – I would be interested in the answer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27022	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27044	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to ask the colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, first of all a question. As it is unfortunately not here, I ask the Members of the Liberal and Reformist Group to raise this question. It comes here and defies all of what is going on over the stage here in the course of the 1996 and 1997 budget creation of the two "evil" government parties. [[Abg. Scheibner: Criminal proceedings, colleague!]] Yes, of course! She's teasing us and telling us how terrible that would be. I have not heard from her mouth – and that would have been very interesting to me – a single constructive consideration, as it would, for example, imagine structural changes in the area of the Internal Chapter, which she would have had in mind in terms of proposals. Not a single way, not a single variant has suggested it! That would be the question I'd like to ask her: How does it keep it, how does the Freedom Party keep thinking in the field of internal security? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: All opposition amendments will be rejected from the outset anyway!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It makes no sense to make suggestions!]] Mr Kier has just turned the incense boiler towards ÖVP. All that does not happen in the field of internal security – it is due to the ÖVP! All that cannot be implemented in reformatory approaches – the "evil" ÖVP is the fault! All that forces the Minister to kneel – the ÖVPler is to blame, the "evil"! – So it really can't be that way. Coalition means putting together, Mr Kier, that Coalition is to go a common way, and we are going, red and black, in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say, of course, Mr Kier: We liked that you appreciate us so much. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] Although we are the second in the whole area – that is what we admit – but if you make us the first in the field of security policy, then nothing worse should happen to us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Not the first, the more dangerous you are!]] I know, Minister of State, with such accusations you have to live. I would therefore like to address you very specifically. Federal Minister! For the ÖVP here, today and now a clear statement: They have all the support on our part when it comes to the implementation of legitimate concerns in the field of internal security, both as regards the objective of reducing crime rates and as regards the security aspects of the population, and, of course, as far as the appropriate motivation of the security executive is concerned. All our support! Each of us knows how difficult this undertaking is. For this we stand, we are loyal to packing and coalition, from which we will not deviate a millimeter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, it is of course also true that in your field, especially in your place of business, in the Ministry of the Interior, you are doing what is at all necessary as a first step. There is a grumbling degree of distrust in the leadership of the civil service against you ad personam, Federal Minister, against all that is the line of the Minister of the Interior. And we hear every day in the talks with our colleagues that there is a dissatisfaction with the Minister that, as they say, there is a lack of leadership. [[Abg. Edler: Who did you talk to?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: with experts!]] Federal Minister! Clear and unmistakable: If you remove this distrust, create new confidence, then you will have easier to implement the objectives of security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be easy for me – but of course I do not want to impose an elf-meter on the Freedom Party – to quote from group meetings that you hold, Minister, looting Internala, calling different things – but we both, you and I, know you are not doing well and we are not doing well. I can tell you, Minister: We are concerned about which walls are being built here, which problems in the field of civil service, namely the chief office, can be felt in the Ministry of the Interior, when speaking an honest word to colleagues – and we do so. Minister! I'll invite you to: Building Take this distrust, build confidence! That's better for this country, for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was introduced by my previous speakers – and I would like to support Robert Elmecker in particular – to consider the fight against organised crime. It is not, of course, as Mr Kier said, but I am assuming, Minister of the Interior, that you will still comment on the details he has asked you. Of course, Mr Elmecker has all my support where it says: We want to offer organized crime to Paroli. Paroli we offer organised crime, among other things, by introducing modern methods of investigation. Mr Kier! You have probably failed to point out even with a single word: We always want to do so when there are occasions, with judicial approval only. I have not heard a single word of it in all of your statements: only with judicial approval, while respecting the rule of law. That's what we want, and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have, of course, also forgotten in an elegant Schlenzer what we are going to have to discuss in the Subcommittee of the Justice Committee, Mr Kier: If there are results, there will be control afterwards. Control is important. Lenin has already told us that trust is good, but control is even better, so in this case too. That is what we stand for, and that is what we are going to do. Be sure of that, Mr Kier! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said that?]] Trust is good, control is better. Wasn't that Lenin? Wasn't he? [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] Did I say something else? [[Abg. Scheibner: So you quote Lenin!]] Well, why not? A general rule which can also be applied in a modern democracy such as Austria. Why not? Trust is good, control is better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just one who is not obliged to the communist doctrine of salvation, to Leninism-Marxism, can say it all the easier. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That you have already come to Lenin!]] In that case, I would like to do so, because it covers with what we want in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to say the following for the EIA: In the field of internal security, we have presented a security plan. From this security plan, we believe that, with appropriate implementation, it would lead to greater security in this country, a better sense of security, and more motivation for the co-operation. We also imagine a streamlining of the organization. Why are we made so difficult? Why is it made so difficult for the safety executive? Why are not areas of responsibility delegated from the head, from the Ministry, from the Federal Police Directorates, from the Security Directorates, from the Gendarmerie Central Commando to the local base? Why is this not better, faster, to achieve more efficiency? [[Call to the Freeman: Lenin was it!]] Secondly, we feel it, and we have also registered it in the planning evaluations, that there is an increase in the civil service in the central offices. [[Abg. Parnigoni: As in the Ministry of Agriculture!]] The man in the ministry is not the important one. The police on the street, the gendarmerie officer on the street, it's the one people want to see. There we have to see that there are officials and not that they sit in the ministry or in the central command. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Parnigoni, that's like the Ministry of Agriculture!]] The colleague is the motivated colleague, if he is also trained accordingly. He is then trained accordingly if he performs his work by building on a well-founded basic knowledge after appropriate continuing and training, for example in the field of the Security Academy. We want this Security Academy to improve the quality of the safety executive. We ask the Minister to take the appropriate measures immediately. He also has our full support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The EIAs are particularly committed to making people feel comfortable that they feel safe in this country. That is why we are prepared to support any measure that makes sense, any measure that strengthens the sense of security of citizens and that produces the motivated security executives. Minister! If you're going this way, we'd love to go with him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27316	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27337	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fresh wind on the part of the People's Party, the new, fighting, sincere political wind, continued after the judicial debate, started by Mrs Fekter, now in the security debate by Mr Kiss. It's interesting that the call: "By this you will have to get used to!" Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's very interesting. This fits so correctly and exposes which shoulder closures are taking place, which we must get used to, which alliances are increasingly and more clearly forming themselves on social-politically sensitive issues such as judicial policy or security policy in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Very good, sir! Keep going!]] Mr Mühlbachler! The world doesn't stop in Freistadt. We really want to move on to security policy and look at one of my interesting aspects. It is a really interesting aspect in the context of the savings package. It is no secret that in the context of this savings package in its full range, in its incredibly different details, where on the first day of the debate there have also been some confessions regarding these various details, there has been a great deal going down. In this great package of savings there has been, among other things, a whole series of new discriminations, for example for foreign citizens, who have nothing to do with the real idea of savings and which are purely political practices in essential areas, in order to realize here in some areas at government level what Völkian popular desire called for here in the foreign sector a few years ago. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is clear and clear that a package of savings, in substantial detail, is more difficult to meet in the first place those levels of population which have fewer incomes which have a more difficult social situation. We know from studies that in Austria, of course, this is primarily the so-called foreign households affected by the overall package, which are more massive in comparison to the Austrian population. But there are a number of specific amendments tailored and designed in the field of foreigners, the serious discrimination, the serious setbacks for the foreign citizens concerned, for example in the area of unemployment insurance, the unemployment insurance law, such as the Ausländerbehördegesetz, and even modifications and tightenings in seasonality in the field of residence law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am actually very surprised that, under the leadership of a Minister of the Interior, who has acted with the slogan, it is also in this policy field of migration policy to want to realize foreign policy – we have always been very pleased to hear such announcements again and again over the last few months – in its area of responsibility within this saving package, it has come to very massive cuts for foreign citizens, especially and exclusively for foreign citizens. This is a situation that surprises us, with which we have not expected. This is not the humanization of foreign policy, but it is exactly the opposite of that. The savings package will have an adverse impact on the foreign population. Social exclusion will progress with all the effects involved: Worse access to education and subsequent social exit are pre-programmed, and this – we call it – is further boosted, even in terms of displacement into illegality. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be the purpose and purpose of a semi-moderate, semi-human foreign policy. Mr Minister – and I also expect a statement from you today that I have so far only noted silence from your person on this subject – I mention only the area of the new family allowance for unemployment benefit. Here, the new regulation will be that the family allowance at the basic amount of unemployment benefit will be granted only to members of the family who are resident in Austria. The removal of the family allowance will mean that family members living abroad will no longer be able to be cared for. It is relatively clear what that means. This probably means exactly what those who have designed it do not wish for, namely, the indirect creation of a new immigration pressure. Secondly, there are massive difficulties for foreign citizens in the area of family aid by completely removing the family allowance for children living abroad from foreigners working in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! How is this compatible with a human foreign policy? There is a difficult access to open spaces compared to the previous practice. There is also the creation of regional and sector-specific foreign labour markets with the unsocial and inhuman consequences we know. And there is a double dependence on the labour market up to the deepening of the term for the season and its consequences, which have long been known to all those who deal with migration in a semi-human way. Minister! I do not understand why you have been hiding on this issue so far. I am curious about how you justify these massive misdemeanors in this debate, this direct renunciation to what Jörg Haider has actually called for in some areas of his foreign people's desire. Personally, it's a mystery. The second critical point is that there is still a lack of police reform to this day. It has said a very good sentence to Mr Kiss. He meant that it was necessary to end the distrust that prevails. He meant something very different than me. He meant that within the "police apparatus" – under quotation marks – there is a distrust of the Minister. Mr Kiss! I think it's a completely different distrust. It is about distrust that the population groups continue to face the executive over to what we need to take care of here. That is what it is to be done, and there is a need to put in place confidence-building measures! That would be the crucial point and not the political hack in the Ministry of the Interior, which leads to consequences that we all regret – at least I hope –. This executive has seen some very positive developments in recent months, which I must say quite clearly. I myself – I wanted to say already: on my own body, as far as it hasn't gone – have experienced an extremely sensitive use of the Gendarmerie in the most long-term construction site occupation in Austria, namely in Lambach: 14 weeks through the occupation of a construction site. This is no easy task for officials working there, who are also being abused in a sense for missing solutions in politics, which then have to stop their heads, at temperatures between minus 5 and minus 15 degrees. I must say that, except for very few exceptions, the officials employed there have acted highly sensitive, mediating, and not polarizing. And that was the way in which the executive can regain confidence in the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: There were commercial builders!]] Please? Mr Mühlbachler! [[Abg. Murauer: Murauer!]] Sorry – Murauer! I always confuse you two very easily, because the calls are always similar, that's the problem with this confusion. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is related to the beer variety!]] Please? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Probably this is related to the beer variety!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very funny! A rare humour!]] I don't think this has anything to do with the beer variety. No, Mr Parnigoni, this has nothing to do with it, I think. That was an area where one felt that in this executive there was an effort to regain some of the destroyed trust. That is exactly the way I think the executive must go: to put in place confidence-building measures, to operate conflict resolution, not to emotionalize, actually to be the partner of the citizen and the citizen. This was a first approach with a few outsiders. But I believe that this must be addressed from the green side – and I say quite consciously now – that there has been a positive development and that there is especially in this individual case. Minister! But we all know together that the overall need for reform in the executive sector in Austria is enormous. It is, I believe, undisputed across the political groups that this need for reform is an extremely manifest one, particularly in the field of training. It is also clear to me that in one ministry it is not possible to implement a training reform from one month to the next, to set up a security academy specifically for the executives, which conveys the know-how that those who act can then use in their efforts. But it is slowly becoming really high time that these reform steps are not only announced but concreteized. Minister! They have all the support if we can achieve it in the Committee on the Interior in the next few months – and I look forward to doing so – to holding concrete debates on reform approaches in the organisational field, also in the field of state police, but also in the field of training. But this year 1996 is a year when this reform process is actually to be completed in these core areas. Otherwise, a reform debate, which is overdue, is actually being broken. I believe that this debate on reform - I have mentioned this briefly - has an essential organisational priority, among other things: this is the state police, but not only the state police, but also the Austrian intelligence services. I was very positive about the statements made by the SPÖ Klubobmann four days ago in the Austrian public, where this overall need for reform was finally addressed and seen beyond the state police. Because, please, in which country we actually live, where in my opinion I think very legitimate newspaper titles – such as in the "Kurier" of the 14th century. January of this year – read: "Obviously because of other enemy images, Austria's secret services are getting into one another"? I do not think that the affected editor, who is a specialist – and the specialists here in this House know this – has overpowered measurably. There is a cold war under Austria's intelligence services. This is, of course, also motivated by party politics, but it is also motivated by the fact that there is a complete inequality between the services at present. There is a state police that had the lucky case of the 1990 STAPO scandal and as a result the opportunity to introduce first citizens' rights, access to file, erasure and cetera. All of this is very close to military services, which are very close here, which have already sent representatives to this House, completely unknown. [[The speaker points to the banks of the Freeman]] There are two military intelligence services, which are currently operating in de facto every legal basis, which have more personnel with more capital having a more sensitive technical equipment. In the Austrian public this obviously does not concern anyone, although we know that thousands of personal files are made each year, nor within a framework where no citizen is entitled to see these files, where no citizen has a right to erasure or the like of the state police. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As long as a country can offer such a wild growth of intelligence services, it does not deserve the designation of enlightened democracy. [[Abg. Murauer: The expression of a "wild growth" is inappropriate!]] [[Abg. Wabl: This is the right expression!]] This is a very essential and crucial point. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We shall continue to press ahead with such political pressure in this direction. I very much hope that this Federal Government will be able to implement this overall reform of all three services together. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There I come to a statement by the Minister of the Interior. Minister! Volker Kier has already briefly addressed a "profile" quote from you. For me, a second "profile" quote was very interesting. In this respect, I too would like to have some information. The "profile" editor Christa Zöchling, I think, asked you how it is with the state police's state of affairs, whether it was still, as in the past, activities of the state police for certain companies in the field of security control of individuals. And she happened to lead Siemens. I don't know how Mrs. Zöchling comes to Siemens, but maybe we'll be expecting something interesting in the near future. And what does the Minister of the Interior of the Republic say – recalling the Noricum scandal, where we have dealt with this very subject in the Committee of Inquiry and where was it clear that there can no longer be security surveillance of individual citizens on behalf of private companies in this Republic? I do not have the exact wording in my mind now, but he has de facto confirmed that there and there such cooperation can already come – at the request of private companies. So that must not be true! Six years after the Noricum scandal, six years after the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry on the Noricum case, six years after it was discovered that military services and state police were staggering the employees of industrial enterprises, and six years after that, is this nightmare to continue? I can't imagine that, Minister. Is that actually so correctly quoted? Is there in this Austria, in fact, the involvement of officials on behalf of companies by the Austrian State Police? Are there safety reports on individual factory members on behalf of these companies, such as Siemens, as "profile" meant? Does such a thing exist? If so, how often does such a thing happen? Who has the legitimacy to serve the state police? On what legal basis does this work? What and how many people are inspected in this country in this way? – That can and must not be true. Get up here and today, and tell us that's wrong quoted, or tell us the truth! Is such attacks by the State Police still taking place? It is an infringement if such a practice should actually be quite normal practice in Austria. The last point – it seems to me to be a very important one, and we have discussed and discussed it briefly in the debate on justice: Austria also threatens Europol. Mr Minister, you probably know the article from the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' of Tuesday, which shows that the police are now also interested in the sexual life of citizens. They certainly also know the rules for implementing Europol. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I know that You have your problems with this issue, but as soon as the word "sexuality" appears, it does not always have to give a joke in this plenary. If you have a problem, let us talk about it, but let us leave this out of the plenary session, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] We know what the Europol Convention looks like, we now know Article 10 of the Europol Convention, which provides for the broad data collection of non-suspects such as potential future victims and witnesses, contact persons and possible informants. And we know that Article 3 of this Europol Convention, which concerns the data to be collected for the storage of the Brussels central computer, lists the following extremely intimate data: Point 3.1: racial origin, point 3.2: political views, point 3.3: religious or other beliefs, point 3.4: Health information, point 3.5: Information on the sex life of citizens. Minister! Are the survey points to which Austria agrees? We live in a country where, as we know, the executive, above all the state police, is more dizzy than the most famous Swiss Emmentaler. We know that this executive is just like a barn door, that a mole gives the Turkish left to the other, that the results of the investigation are first in the hands of Jörg Haider and then in the hands of the Minister. And in such a situation, in such a state of the destruction of citizens' rights through the decision to attack noise and search for grids, which will enable the identification of highly sensitive data, do you want to sign an international agreement with Europol, which provides for the transfer of these most intimate data to the Brussels Central Computer? Is that your concern that you want to agree to this? I would very much like an answer to this today, an answer that will show me how honest you mean it with your announcements that you have made in your office to protect civil rights, data protection, human migration policy, comprehensive police reform. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I've now shown you: In the savings package, massive discrimination and a massive deterioration of foreign citizens have been smuggled into. It means: Police reform, please wait! To this day. It is not a question of data protection and retention, yes, of extending citizens' rights, if one joins Europol at the same time and wants to introduce noise attack and grid arrest. Minister! What's so beautiful? That's where you need explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27510	The next speaker is Mr Matthias Achs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27535	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really do not think anything about what Mr Kiss said about sugar bread and whipping. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of the coming years is marked by strong savings. It is a reasonable saving to save, which does not restrict the State in fulfilling its central tasks. One of these central tasks is internal security. Internal security must be worth something to all of us. The Internal Budget chapter therefore also provides for increases in the coming years. That's good reason. I do not know today's situation in the bandage sector. Modern means of combating crime are needed. Only with the help of a modern technical equipment of the executive can Austria remain one of Europe's safest countries. We too are particularly exposed by our exposed situation and by our role as transit country criminal hazards. We also faced a completely new situation with the opening of the eastern borders at the end of the 1980s. The new travel freedoms have led to more mobility, but also to more crime. However, we have succeeded in fighting this development successfully. Mr Elmecker has already pointed out the positive development in this area, so that I can save myself further details. An adjustment to the changed conditions, ladies and gentlemen, has been achieved. Today, the crime structure is in a very rapid change. This change must be taken into account. Fighting international organised crime can only be successful if, first, the means of fighting are available – and these have already been provided by us – and secondly, cooperation with the police authorities of other countries works. Especially in the case of organised crime, it shows how important a closed and consistent international approach is. The Europol has created an appropriate instrument that is forward-looking. A major challenge for the coming years will be to further develop this instrument. This is an essential prerequisite for the successful fight against crime in practice. Ladies and gentlemen! Internal security is a fundamental need for people. This is why it is particularly important to deal with this subject in an objective and serious manner. The issue of security is not suitable for political agitation and should not be misused, because too quickly there is uncertainty among people, it comes to aggressing fear. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Permanent black painting and constant messing of executives certainly do not contribute to security in this country. The successful work of the Austrian executive is undisputed. Those who give us good advice again and again are saying that many of what they propose to us today has already been achieved. But you are also invited to work with us to increase security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! A discussion on whether the monitoring of transport of civilian bodies can be transferred is necessary. The situation with our German neighbours, however, shows how difficult it is to monitor through profit-oriented businesses. There official posts and especially the population are anything but satisfied. Traffic monitoring is a responsible activity and requires a good qualification, a qualification as it brings the Austrian executive. This is a question of selection and training. It should be emphasized that the proportion of women in the executive is increasing and these women are in nothing to their male counterparts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are just before the tenth anniversary of the Chernobyl reactor disaster. That is why it is my concern to point out the importance of civil protection. Through the support of the Ministry of the Interior, we have been able to set up self-protection centres in 1 100 Austrian communities over the last ten years. Furthermore, the concept of the security apartment is being strongly promoted as a protection against the risk of radiation. It is about comprehensive information and the necessary private provision. This is also an important contribution to increased security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We are living today in a country that is often envied by its security. Many may take the high level of safety in Austria as a matter of course, but I believe that there are good reasons for this: On the one hand, we have an executive who does excellent and committed work, and on the other hand, the Minister of the Interior is an executive and does not leave it in the protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right! That is the problem of the Minister!]] What was previously claimed is not the case. We have an interior minister who goes out and asks the guards on the street what problems and concerns they have. I believe that there has been a special close relationship and that the opposite of what has been said is the case. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists know that Austria has a good international reputation in the security sector. Together with our executive, we will be able to develop the good reputation of Austria abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27592	Next speaker is MP Scheibner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27614	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been noted that, particularly in the debates on the part of the speakers of the government groups, it seems that we do not like to talk about the matter that we should actually discuss today, and that the budget debate is taking place. None of the speakers in the government groups have lost a word about the points to be discussed here today. [[Abg. Kiss: Come on!]] Mr Kiss! You're the security officer. I would have expected from you and also from Mr Elmecker that you would really address the issue, because now a citizen who, because he has had an accident or perhaps has observed an accident, is alarming the police, so that he actually meets his obligation as a powerful and courageous citizen and has to inform the executive about an accident, suddenly have to pay 500 s. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mr Kiss! We would have expected answers to this today. You really take a strange position here: All the taxes we pay and with which we maintain a state apparatus – and security should be a fundamental task of every state – are almost only spent on normal operation, and for every achievement that the citizen receives from these organizations, he is now suddenly to pay. Mr Kiss! We would have expected answers to this. Your silence testifies to your bad conscience. Nothing to say in that case is also an answer. And at least this honors you that you have a bad conscience and not even defend this really strange and unworthy handle in the pockets of the taxpayer, who now has to make an extra contribution if he needs help. For it is the real task of the State to ensure the security of its citizens and to provide help to the citizen when he needs this help. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same is true in the case of compensation for damages to a citizen in the course of police action. So far, it has been so that, if the person concerned does not indebted the person concerned, of course, the public hand has come up for such damage. Now there is a strange assessment: If the action of the police has been mainly in the interest of the injured, he has no claim to compensation. Ladies and gentlemen! Every regulation is only as good as the abuse or the worst case can be eliminated, Mr Kiss. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Yeah, you hear bad, that's clear to me, but maybe you should deal with matter anyway. What does that mean? If someone is in distress if someone uses the police's services and perhaps doesn't let the police take care of the care that is necessary and therefore uses the goods of this injured person, then he has no right to compensation. In the case of personal damage – which is even worse – there is the replacement only according to fairness. Federal Minister! What is to be understood by this undetermined concept of law "according to fairness"? Then who decides if personal damage is caused by police intervention, whether the injured person receives a compensation or not? These are really things that have not lost anything in a ordinary rule of law in a law. But, as has already been said, it is clear and revealing that the representatives of the government have not found a word of explanation. Mr Elmecker! You've been worried about others. They referred to parliamentarianism and said: Dr. Haider wasn't there yesterday, that's terrible and a rejection of parliamentarianism. Mr Elmecker! I am pleased that you so highly esteemed by Mr Haider and recognize it as the pillar of this parliamentaryism that, once he is not there, the House almost coincides. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is all right that we agree with you that it is such a pillar of Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mr Elmecker, although I agree with you, I must tell you: This is not a comparison with the way in which the Federal Government has chosen it here. Only the wide variety of constitutional provisions you have in this structural adjustment law are just pangs for parliamentarianism and democracy, Mr Elmecker! That's it. If you stop the control of the Constitutional Court that you take any possibility of appeal to the citizen affected by these measures at the VfGH, these are the problems that we need to discuss today. The fact that you are putting such laws on the table and that this year we have to decide two budgets in the half-time of those we have available, these are the things that we criticise here and which we wanted to express yesterday with our protest attitude. And I think that we are quite right. They quote the criminal statistics here, Mr. Elmecker, and then say that a minus of 0.1 percent in case of mild physical injury is a huge success. It will be even worse, Mr Elmecker! They then boast that there is a 97 - percent reconnaissance rate for drug offences. Statistics are also patient in this case. Come to the problem areas, your neighbor will be able to tell you from her experience as a social worker what problems we have especially in the metropolitan area with the growth of drug crime. In view of this, we cannot go here in this debate and say: 97 percent investigation into drug offences is a success of this minister. Mr Elmecker! If that was the only thing you thought of drug crime, then it's more than sad for a security speaker. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another word on the comments made by Mr Kiss: A colleague said that was the mildest speech to the Minister of the Interior, whom he has long heard. I didn't know what to do. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: The Minister of the Interior also laughs!]] Yeah, I think he's laughing. I do not know what happened between the Minister of the Interior and Mr Kiss. I remember how courageous our Paul Kiss from the Burgenland had been before the elections, how he acted. With all our consent, he said that this minister was unbearable to the Republic! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The pillow has fallen down!]] Of course, my colleague. Mr Kiss said we had to make an announcement, I think, about abuse of office. And today, he's standing right here at the speaker's desk and saying, "Create confidence again so that we can work together with you." Mr Kiss! What are you doing? What the hell is that? They're still quoting Lenin. That would have liked your confidence in the Minister of the Interior. These are the problems we have with you. Last night, you were much more funny, colleague Kiss. Maybe you could bring this state back. It's really a bit strange when I look at your statements a few weeks ago and those you brought here today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm telling you, the police have to get back on the street. But precisely with this load package, with the reforms, with the personnel reduction, you will not be able to implement the measure you require. It has been discussed today, Mr Kiss. It was your predecessor, Mr Pirker, as a security spokesman, who announced it in a press conference a few years ago – I don't know – in 1992 or 1993, and the border service is coming in four weeks. Mr Kiss! That was the longest four weeks in the Second Republic, because to this day we do not have this border service. You are with this minister in a government, you have today decided a tax package, a government package in which there is nothing left of this border service. Of course, the German army is also being used to monitor the boundaries – I don't want to say, abused. That's all right, too. Of course, the Federal Government has the constitutional mandate to provide assistance for other departments in assistance operations, but that cannot be a permanent condition, Mr Kiss! That can't be a permanent state. It has been four years since now, and now it is being extended to four years. Eight years of Provisionorium is once again an Austrian solution. The problem is that, in the end, there is also the damage to the defence of the country. They agree with the budget for further reduction of national defence expenditure. The Federal Government must therefore be used as a gap for tasks which must be paid at least financially. We haven't heard anything about that either. Last year the Minister of Defense at least said that he had tried to get a cost replacement for this assistance, now he has told us to my complete surprise that such a replacement could not be possible, because that is the constitutional order of the Federal Army. – A very worrying development. But we will see, Minister of State, how this will all go on. It seems that your position in this government has been strengthened despite the many attacks by the People's Party before the elections, otherwise it could not be the case that now all people like Mr Kiss come to you to offer confidence and cooperation. One more point, Minister of the Interior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Right, that's where we got it! Mr Kiss, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That's the answer to all your questions, to your handrings regarding trust. [[Congratulations on the liberals!]] In this Federal Government, the Minister of the Interior against the ÖVP, who just a few weeks ago said that this minister was dangerous to the state. [[Abg. Kiss: Kier says the opposite!]] You say the opposite! [[Abg. Kiss: Kier!]] Nevertheless, you are in a government. Wonderful! Such a government is supposed to solve the big problems in this country, and you throw each other as at the coffee table the woods. Mr. Minister One! Their joint plans with Klubobmann Kostelka on the reform of the State Police are worth a few remarks. It is really strange, Minister of the Interior, that you now – which is also interesting for the ÖVP – demand the dissolution of the army news office, but leave the defence office completely out of discussion. This is interesting, therefore, because the expert knows what the political composition of these intelligence services is. Defence office is more occupied by SPÖ, army intelligence is more under the influence of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Leikam: Where are the blues?]] The ÖVP News Office, Mr. Leikam, was assembled with the State Police and established in the Federal Chancellery. Mr Kiss! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you agree to this power construction, this concentration of power in the Federal Chancellery, then you really can't help. But let us look, Mr Khol, at whether you are going to fall back on this question or whether at least you can see the background of all these things and, once again, you will be able to face up to such strange reform measures. Mr. Minister One! Of course, our intelligence services and the state police need reform, and reform is always positive and necessary. The question is: Where is she? Who is discussing this reform? I believe that the reform of the state police and intelligence services can only be done here in this House, in Parliament, because of the importance and brilliance of this issue. Here in this House there is room for such discussions, because we are the representatives of the people, Mr Elmecker! We also have the responsibility to carry out abuses that may happen if such concentration of power is established. We have also discussed the control of intelligence, Mr Elmecker, and we have also criticised in the control committees that we do not actually have directives on how this control should work. For at present it looks like we are sitting in these control committees and giving us general information to the respective ministers, which they could also give us in full committees. We do not know, however, whether or not we are allowed to give this general information outside or not, so how we have to exploit it. And I tell you that it has failed to convene these committees, which, in turn, only creates ignorance, dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction. If we finally put together this need for reform, let us make a parliamentary reform commission, within which we can discuss all aspects of a modern intelligence service and then organize Austrian intelligence services in such a way that they can carry out their tasks, but really only interfere with their tasks and not with other things that could affect the fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27780	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27801	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this debate today on a number of points which have already been raised, but I would also like to make a fundamental comment before. It is the debate on the structural laws and ultimately also on the budget, which is inseparably linked to them, which is an occasion, including the many executive officials, who have already been able to save last year under difficult conditions and under the need to act with special efficiency and with special commitment, to thank them in particular. I'll do it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is true that we and I too expressly recognise fiscal consolidation, as this Federal Government has done, and that, of course, the Ministry of the Interior cannot be excluded from fiscal consolidation, but I also say this with all clarity, under a premise that there is no savings in the immediate executive field, so that the security work of the executive does not suffer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What it is all about is – and I have also received on these issues a large number of proposals from general army officials, police officers, from staff from all the federal states – to ensure that work in the interests of the security of Austrian citizens, the people who live in this country, is relieved of unnecessary bureaucratic ballast, which, of course, exists in every administration over time, and that the tasks which have not been done directly by the federal government, or at least not by officials who have been trained as executives for two years, do not have to be done by them either. Of course, there is also the possibility in the area of the interior resort to extract or make more efficient a whole series of tasks that have traditionally been performed by us. However, I also note in this area a strange phenomenon, which is, for example, that when it comes to talking about privatisation, many find it wonderful, from the moment one starts to implement it, it is the same thing that one cannot do. We are in terms of decommissioning a whole range of activities, for example in the area of parking control, vehicle registration, for example in the field of procurement and ongoing management of the so-called mass and montage economy. There is now a certain tooth folding and wailing, with the claim to maintain the previous regime. But I say openly: I can't imagine that in the long run we mainly use 143 executive officers to manage and order clothing. These are tasks which can be done better and cheaper by private individuals, and that is why we will also go this way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also true that we are by no means particularly revolutionary. I can tell you that today I have telephoned with my Bavarian counterpart, not primarily because of that, but also because of that. He has told me that he is just about to privatize the mass and Montur economy, for example, for the Bavarian police, so to give out the call. There are, after all, prominent examples from abroad, where this has already happened, namely the German Lufthansa and the German Railway, and there are other domestic institutions that make similar considerations. So we're going to go this way, too. Let me also make a brief comment on a second fundamental question, which has already been raised several times. I believe that it is quite reasonable for the State to take into account, in areas where it is mainly in the private interest, those for which it operates, a fee for its services. This is by no means unusual, and it is also something that contributes to ensuring that the funds for the purpose for which the executive is set up are actually available. It seems that, in order to be more concrete, we do not find anything at all in that the courts acting in the public interest will then, if they are used, calculate the court fees they claim. There is, however, a great cry when, for example, the executive demands that it be paid for a Swiss model after an accident in order to take up a mere property damage. I recognize that under these conditions a right of charge can and should be raised because, Mr Scheibner, it is not a question of protecting the security of citizens. If two drivers are driving together, then there is no longer much security to protect, that has already happened. [[Abg. Scheibner: Legal security!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Perhaps you remember what I said a sentence before, that, in order to give an example, the criminal procedure also provides for a cost compensation for the use of the courts. And there it would be said that this is one of the highest goods of state intervention. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But by your distinction between personal and property damage you conjure this up!]] Let me also comment on some specific questions that have been raised. To my surprise, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé pointed out that she would wish that I would finally pour out rewards for the police. I can tell you, Madam President: In the course of negotiations conducted between the Federal Government by Mr. State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Public Service Union, you may have missed out on the fact that, in view of the difficult budgetary situation, a 50 percent reduction in the rewards - across all departments - has been agreed. This is an agreement I am also bound to as an Interior Minister and to which I also recognize myself. The thing that surprises me a little about your speech is that in your free savings package in item 19 you are proposing exactly the same thing that is happening here. They say that special salary increases, such as payments of rewards, grants and the like, should be abolished. – Point 19 of your savings programme. Now suddenly it should be different because it seems to be more populistly cheaper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Executive!]] Second point: Mr Kier has criticised the fact that the border service is currently being set up in the form of what is actually the case, namely that, on the one hand, within the framework of the Federal Army, the border service already agreed in the previous legislative period will be established and established and, on the other hand, the customs guard and the German army will continue to operate at the external borders. In the time of budgetary consolidation, I believe that this solution, which we have chosen, is a reasonable solution, a reasonable solution, because, with the minimum effort and taking into account the interests of the civil service concerned – including to a certain extent – it allows them to establish and establish an external border security in accordance with the Schengen Agreement. What we had at the turn of the year is a little over 1 300 Gendarmerie officials at the external border. What remains is the entire customs guard, as far as it operates at the external border. However, we will ensure that there is only one guard at the smaller border crossings – that will be either the Gendarmerie or the customs guard. The entire green border – with the exception of the Burgenland – is monitored by the Federal Army. And in Burgenland, for the duration of this legislative period – as agreed by the two government parties – the assistance of the federal army will still be necessary. It will then be replaced by a corresponding solution within the framework of the federal army. It is a pragmatic compromise, but one that does not involve any restrictions on external border security and therefore fully corresponds to the interests we pursue for good reason. On another point by Mr Kier, on noise attack: Deputies! On the one hand, you have put very high numbers here in space and have said that will cost hundreds of millions, 100 or 200 or 400 million, and it will occur so often, and you miss a budget approach. Deputies! May I ask you what you would have said if you had found such a budget approach. – You would have a giant theatre – quite right! – made! You would have said what is under the influence of this Minister of the Interior to provide for a budget for measures in his budget which have not even been debated in this House. Deputies! I can only tell you: Since it is the same, we have not planned it. – And by the way, the figures you mentioned are wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We expect an effort of between 5 and 6 million schilling to be necessary for the execution of the noise attack. And we expect the use of the so-called large noise attack to be a maximum of ten times a year. This is not the 08/15 instrument for everyday crime, but a special instrument for cases of organised crime – where other means do not help, and only there! On the question that you have also addressed to me, how to understand a certain answer in my "profile" interview, I may tell you: That's pretty easy: The answer is authentic, but the question has not been asked. This, of course, makes the matter a little difficult, even in an understanding. Mr Kiss said: On the one hand, I am delighted to hear from him so clearly here – but it is not the first time he has so clearly explained it; we have also developed a similar understanding in more detailed and in smaller circles – that he has expressed support for the common security policy in the interests of the people living in Austria. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I must say to me, of course, about the question of the crisis of confidence, a deep crisis of trust among my chief officials: You're wrong, it's not like you mean! Fortunately, I have the opportunity to have very in-depth discussions with my top officials every week. It can be seen that the relationship of trust has the extent to which it should have in the case of well-understood cooperation, and that the things to be achieved together can also be agreed between my officials and me in such a way that they can be carried out successfully. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I must also disagree with you on another point. I believe that we should also be very careful to deal with simplifications in the interests of political culture in this country. They say, for example, that the officials in the ministry do not benefit from security – very simplely said – but it would be only for the officials on the street. That is wrong in this form! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He didn't say that either!]] I think we should not make such statements. The point is that we have to see very clearly that there are tasks that are reasonably concentrated in one place. For example, the establishment of the Special Commissions, including the EDOK, the Group D's working group on the fight against organised crime, is one of the bodies that is reasonably kept central and only once and not in all possible authorities. At the same time, however, this means that to the extent to which this area of activity of the executive is increasing, the corresponding staff must be kept there. I think you should recognize that too. It is right – and this is also true of us – that it is necessary to show the citizen clearly that the executive is not saved in the street, but that it is also used in such a way that one knows that it is active, that it is there, and that one can rely on its help if one needs it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To three remarks by the honourable Member, Mr Anschober. Firstly, he asked me about a number of issues and asked me for comments which, through all means, did not concern my area of business, so I cannot answer them either. I am pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have not found any criticism on the subject of the policy to be taken by me in the framework of the migration movement. This is recognition at least of an opposition party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards the question you asked me about the "profile" interview – there it is quoted as a "Siemens case" – I may give you the following answer: Imagine the following case-constituency, and I tell you that this is the case-constituency in which I think it is legitimate and justified if the knowledge that the state police gathers in the course of their work is also used. In the meantime, it is relatively common for companies operating internationally but operating internationally from Austria to also recruit and employ staff from other countries, because this is also beneficial and useful for the marketing of their products in precisely these countries. There are some countries in which those employees who are tending to be willing and able to work abroad have typically or relatively often had careers in which they are close to the secret services there. The background for this is relatively banal. It consists of those who have enjoyed relatively best training and, above all, the relatively best language training and are now looking for more employment in Western industrial enterprises. I think it is legitimate to at least want to know whether or not they are setting up an industrial spy in their company in Austria. I think it is legitimate that questions put to us in this regard should also be answered. It is not considered that we are taking any constituencies with the help of the State Police in the interests of private companies. I can answer that as clearly as I can. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the question of Europol, which you have raised: Deputies! In fact, I still remember very well the discussions on the conclusion of the Europol Convention, which we held in the main committee of the National Council. I wonder a little about the questions you have raised today and here because I was of the opinion and I have come to the conviction that this debate in the main committee has, to a large extent, made clear and concluded on these issues. The fact that you now represent it as if it were an immeasurable to bring data obtained in the context of executive activity in Austria into the Europol Joint Data Association shows a strange attitude to the idea of European cooperation. We acknowledge this – not only because we have become a member of the EU, but also because we believe that cooperation in the European context is necessary especially in the fight against cross-border crime – but also because we have common institutions, and we do not see it as the release of sensitive data from Austrians to anyone who is hostile to us. We see this as the minimum basis for successful cooperation between police administrations in the European context. On two final questions raised by Mr Scheibner: One thing I have essentially already stressed, namely the question of the fee for the use of the executive in the event of purely damage to property. It is not so – the still complementary note – that the person who pays a report has to pay. The person who uses the records of the executive afterwards, for example, for the purposes of persecuting his claims for damages, must be paid. I think that is justified. Finally, a few comments on the intelligence services. High house! Mr President. There's no point in saying that anyone would have asked: The red intelligence services we allow to exist, the black ones we are turning to! but it is about ensuring that from time to time it is checked whether what the state is doing, what it is doing in the field of intelligence, is still appropriate in this existing form. I won't hide my conviction from you. It is, in part, the need for reform in the intelligence sector and for citizens to have a minimum degree of transparency in relation to what is happening in the intelligence services. On the other hand, as Mr Elmecker pointed out in an interlocutory call, I think it is urgent to create legal bases for those areas in which they are lacking. On the other hand, the question of the administration of the federal government is not primarily a matter of Parliament, but of the Federal Government, and there it belongs. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the State Police is already a sensitive area!]] – The State Police is a sensitive area, and the responsibility in this state, Mr Scheibner, is organized in such a way that it carries the Federal Government and is ultimately responsible to Parliament. [[Abg. Scheibner: The National Council makes laws!]] That's what I'm calling myself!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27964	The next speaker is Mr Platter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e27985	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are speaking today in the context of the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act on Internal Security, and I am very concerned that it is a matter of getting a little closer on the development of crime. Mr Elmecker, ladies and gentlemen! I am sure you are right to see a general decline in criminal offences. I would also like to thank the many thousands of executive officials for their excellent work and for their idealism on behalf of the ÖVP and also as the Federal Supervisor of the Executive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Anschober is no longer here. He has said here that the executive is just like a barn gate. Mr. Anschober! That's a lot of what you said! This generalization is immense, and I strongly reject it on behalf of the ÖVP, but also on behalf of the executive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Coming to criminal statistics: It undoubtedly warrants the statement that Austria is a safe country. Fortunately, Austria is a safe country for our citizens as well as for our tourists. In this regard, our legendary head of state, our father-in-law Wallnöfer, once said something very special. In one of his excellent speeches, he once said: The country can't be that bad if I can take the train to Landeck without Gorilla and walk to Kufstein on foot. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this country cannot be as bad as you do our country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you tell us?]] – In the many debates you always hold, you make our country and therefore our citizens bad on a tour. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The government is bad!]] But I don't have so much time to deal with it, I have to keep the speaking time, and come back to the real subject. Despite this positive assessment, there is no doubt that there is a need to point to the dangerous development of organised crime, but also to the dangerous development of drug trafficking and drug use. This development, ladies and gentlemen, must not be taken lightly. More and more people are becoming drug addicts and dying from their consequences – you know, 1994 was once again an increase. In public discussions, however, it is incomprehensible for me to talk about a liberalisation of drug legislation. I am glad that liberalisation in drugs, whether soft or hard, can be prevented in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Other countries and other cities have already had to take on enormous negative developments due to the realization of the liberalisation idea. Liberalisation would only beautify the naked figures: Of course, the number of convictions would go down, but the drug trade and consumption would live up. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to point out that the prevention of the liberalisation of drug legislation against the fight against this addiction is undoubtedly not enough. Especially in the area of addiction crime, in the fight against organised crime, we, Mr Minister, need to take advantage of the opportunities that the EU offers to us. Some of the main tasks of the European Union – in addition to the economic needs – are to protect against organised crime, to protect against drug trafficking and, in particular, to protect against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen! If gangs work cross-border, the police must also act internationally, and in addition, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, we must undoubtedly provide modern investigation methods to the executives in order to achieve close equal opportunities with the organized gangs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the fight against addiction, I believe that in addition to the fight against drug abuse, prevention, rehabilitation and reintegration into society are the cornerstones of a comprehensive drug policy. Our esteemed former Minister, Dr. Alois Mock, recently attended the EDU Conference in Paris, called on the EDU Presidents to fight international crime and in particular pointed out the increasing drug trafficking in Europe. We in Austria are also required. We should increasingly benefit from the Europol Drugs Unit in The Hague and give our executive officials, in addition to the necessary investigation methods, appropriate training within the framework of an urgently necessary security academy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe, Minister, that, in view of the problems of organised crime and drug trafficking, we should urgently take advantage of the opportunities offered to us by our EU membership in order to improve the opportunities for European coordination in the fight against these crimes. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a very brief look at a special issue that is coming to Tyrol, a subject that concerns the Tyrolean borders. As a result of the ratification of the Schengen Agreement, human occupation at the border was reduced by about two thirds. It is half-targeted, let alone efficient border control, which would be urgently necessary for the fight against crime, because of the drastically reduced level of personnel. We know that Italy is not currently in control of its 'blue border' and that Italy is likely to fail to meet the Schengen criteria in the near future. Minister! Tirol has therefore become the loophole for illegal immigrants. France has closed the borders with Italy, and Italy is intensifying the foreign law. It is already confirmed that the "U-boats" living in Italy are fleeing north and that, because Germany considers Austria to be the EU's external border, all these "U-boats" are landing in Tyrol. The flood comes from the south, and the Tyrol loophole is perfect. Due to this extraordinary situation, an extra-party security summit has already been held in Tyrol, and all participants – all participants, ladies and gentlemen! – agreed that the current situation is unbearable and that the borders with Italy should be sufficiently occupied by appropriate staff rochades – I am thinking, for example, of the MÜGs. Minister! Finally, I should like to ask you to take these security concerns and concerns of Tyrol seriously, and I hope that you will take the appropriate measures in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28076	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28098	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to say once again – despite the hour ahead or, better said, in spite of a long debate; calm down! – § 4 para. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] 5a of the road traffic regulations – this is exactly what I am talking about – and also the consequences that result from them. I think it is more than legitimate to address to you, Mr Federal Minister, and also to your colleagues from the government groups the question of what you were actually thinking about. You can suspect several reasons for this, because you can only make speculations. The first presumption, the first speculation, so to speak, is: Those who "broken" this bill – under quotation marks – did not think anything about it. That would be bad enough in itself, because in the legislative process there are a number of paid people – officials, consultants and so on – and if they don't think anything about it, it is very difficult to simply produce a law without a background! The second speculation is: You've already thought of something, but you've focused your attention primarily on keeping some other kind of revenue acquisition legal, and that's it. – But I think, ladies and gentlemen, there are still a whole series of background motives that refer to this famous § 4 para. 5a. Federal Minister! I would like to put it straight to the point: What is being operated there is a kind of modern road storage, a more modern kind of predatory, where one now keeps the citizen heavily on the bag, in addition to many other loads. Ladies and gentlemen! This must be borne in mind: There is a lot of legal uncertainty, I say. Why? – If one analyzes this provision in detail, which results from what form in future in the case of traffic accidents, which form of dispute will be brought before court, except court, then one can only say: It is only 60 million or net if I deduct the administrative costs resulting from it, perhaps 30 or 35 million, but there is something like a kind of re-route profitability, a re-route profitability in the form that the courts are more concerned with because the lawyers have to do more than before, because if there are no protocols, there will be no more dispute. Mr Ofner, I shall be confirmed. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Thank God! Agreed!]] This again results in additional revenue for the state fund because there are, of course, fees, court fees, deposit fees and the like more. So here I suspect a re-route profitability, whose dimension I cannot estimate, but which is objectionable to the reason and character, because it is unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen. But let's maybe take another step: In addition to the non-thinking or the revenue-thinking, or perhaps the reversing profitability and such things, I have to believe that this law, which represents an attack on the citizens, is nothing but an expression of what the government parties understand in it, how they deal with their power, and this association with power is characterized by incredible prepotence and arrogance, according to the motto: We have the majority here in this House, we do not inform the citizen, we just drive over it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I do not want to go into the details of this matter of law, but I would like to make a few more speculations, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where you should have been in committee!]] Mr Khol! This matter has not been dealt with in a regular committee. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Any reasonable Parliament would like to see a revision of the road transport regulations dealt with where it belongs, namely in the Transport Committee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But as with many other things, one has put it into the budget accompanying law and is driving over it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We didn't get over it!]] Mr Khol, that is the reality, and you do not get over it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You weren't in the committee!]] I was not in committee and my colleagues either. But please do not assume, because of this, that we would not have been informed of what happened there. We are well aware of this because we have good and reliable employees, and they have told us minutely what happened there. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then send your employees here!]] My colleagues have already received the appropriate praise, and you know very well why we have stayed away from the Committee's deliberations. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Put the mandate back!]] You know best, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Friend: Easter holidays!]] Yes, the Easter holidays, this is a cheap fairy tale. None of us went to Easter holidays. But let's leave it! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: That's not a fairy tale, that's the reality!]] No, that's not a reality! You just don't like to hear all that I'm telling you. But let us return to § 4 para. 5a Road traffic regulations. What is the background? – The reporting of a traffic accident with mere damage to property will in many cases be absent. One wants to be more or less consciously deterred from understanding the executive. This does not exactly correspond to the idea of a civilian executive. And this will also cheer you several times, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In such a case, the executive does not understand the fact that there is no accident protocol of the executive, and then, as just quoted, it will become very, very funny in the case of disputes. I already hear your arguments. An argument will be: Yes, what prevents the parties from making a protocol themselves? – I can only tell you: Many have a shock after a small accident. Whether they perceive it consciously or unconsciously is a second thing. But accident perception is also to be classified in the subjectivity field, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why it will be difficult. The driving schools all point out to their pupils during their training that it is appropriate to take action to avoid legal uncertainty even in cases where only one person is damaged. [[Abg. Böhacker: A property damage!]] But you, Mr Minister, and your people are now doing exactly the opposite: Legal uncertainty! So it really seems that one wants to keep the citizen from understanding that, in such cases, the executive should be less self-evident, it should not automatically intervene if it is not paid accordingly. The big problem I have here is: You don't say all of this, you just decide a law with your majority. But you will still see what angry citizen protests you will be struck on the table because of this bill. You will still experience the protest when it is perceived by the population accordingly! They also make a simple milkmaid bill, accounting for 30 million schillings of revenue. That means 60,000 traffic accidents. At present, according to statistics, there are almost 40 000 accidents involving personal injury. The number of damage that still exists is to be located in a grey zone. There is only very indispensable data on this matter. I personally do not think you can count on these amounts. Even if these amounts go up, you have to subtract what that costs. So this is all very, very difficult. So you have to ask yourself what you want to do with this law. This question, ladies and gentlemen, will be raised very often. For me personally, I conclude that the quality of the legislative process is not in the field of the optimal. It would be appropriate to increase the quality level clearly at all levels, but especially in this particular problem area. Federal Minister! I don't care who broke this thing, but I'm allowed to send you a request: Turn it off, produce better laws in your area! To the club members of the government groups, I can only appeal again: Ordinary Please do not get too close to the current state where you can play out your two-thirds majority, where you can just drive over, where you can then lean back and say: Yes, you would have been in committee. You can do that once, perhaps you will succeed for a second time, but in the long run these cheap tricks will no longer be bought by the citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28283	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to Mr Firlinger. I already have a problem if you, Mr Firlinger, find that the changes in the StMOs – literally quoted – have not been dealt with in a regular committee. . May I assume that you therefore regard the Committee on Budgets as an irregular committee? [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is part of the Committee on Transport!]] That is your understanding of parliamentary work. I would have liked to ask Mr Scheibner, who is unfortunately not here, in two points. On the one hand, I am concerned that a speaker of a group, no matter what area of employment he addresses in the security sector, always uses only the word police or the name of a police officer. I think there are very different groups, and may one also call them so that one may know which ones are meant. In my opinion, Mr Scheibner also made a very important mistake when he said that we had complained yesterday that Mr Haider had not been present. – We found it, ladies and gentlemen of the "F", but he did not miss us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: I had the impression!]] We found that he was not there, but he did not miss us. I would like to say something very essential to you from the F: Mrs Partik-Pablé and Mr Scheibner, too, have repeatedly stressed the importance of making policies for citizens to satisfy the citizens' existing security needs. I wonder why your party's speakers go here and try to convey more uncertainty, threat and the like. It is a fact - Mr Elmecker has already shown it - that we will discuss the safety report at one of the next plenary sessions - that Austria is objectively a safe country. But here you go to the speaker's desk and by force want to guide the subjective sense of security of the citizen in a negative direction. That, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not all right! I also do not think it is all right that – and this has already been quoted here – the magazine "TOP" by Mr Pretterebner is tried to deliberately communicate wrong things to the citizen. But in principle I am revising my statement, because the number of readers of this magazine is probably a very small one and the same one is in your environment. So you go here and tell us about this magazine that Lower Austria’s green border is still completely unsecured, and one finds among other things that chaos is at all at our borders. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a form of serious journalism for me! This is categorically opposed! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Congratulations!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can also remind you very briefly of the following: It is clear and understandable to us that further measures are very likely to be taken. No one expects the government parties to break out of the opposition parties in jubilation. But we should expect them to stick to the truth at least in accordance with the principle of fairness. But you seem to have problems with that too. It looks in principle – if you look through the documents, you can see that –but it looks quite good how the safeguarding and monitoring of our borders takes place. It is only by looking at the abundance of foreign police, criminal police and administrative police activities that we can see that our employees in the Ministry of the Interior are safely doing absolutely the best possible work. It is our task, therefore, to ensure, with the framework conditions that we create, even better job opportunities and to look forward to the status of the wanted 3,000, so that the borders are properly secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have another amendment to make.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28419	The amendment tabled by Mr Schwemlein is sufficiently supported. He will be involved in the trial. I now give the floor to Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28443	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually not a specialist in internal policy. In recent months, however, I have been very intensive in the field of sects in Austria. From this point of view, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you, Mr Minister, of some of the facts that I believe they are not uninteresting because they shed a very significant light on a particular party in this House as far as their links to sects are concerned, but also on their possible links with so-called terrorist associations. It should not surprise you, it is the Freedom Party. The Freedom Party has very good relations with certain sects, such as the Association for Psychological Human Knowledge, VPM, which has a branch in Austria, which also has and is very good in the legal conservative environment between ÖVP and FPÖ, but which, above all – and this can be read in relevant books – tries very intensively to guard the environment around the Freedom Party through certain liaison men. This environment around the Freedom Party is characterized – and it may not be a coincidence that it is now no longer in this House – by former Member Hans Pretterebner, the editor of the news magazine "TOP". I now quote from the book "VPM – The Psychosects": "At first glance, contact with Austria and especially with FPÖ seems to be developing positively." Hans Pretterebner, editor of the Vienna news magazine "TOP" and Haider-Spezi, was prominent in his new magazine for the VPM. As an editorial contribution, Dr. Alfons Adam, Bundesobmann of the Pro-Vita movement, recommended the Congress in Feldkirch. Pro Vita was one of the co-organizers of the Congress. There are other links which can also be characterized by a Member who has been expelled from the House, who is sitting here for the liberals in this House, Mr Gudenus, who also has very good links with VPM. I do not say this by chance, but because VPM, together with psychosects such as Scientology, is one of those associations that are also active in Austria, who go through the political institutions very specifically, trying to gain political power, specifically trying to influence political posts in order to instrumentalize them in their sense. It is not a coincidence that the Ministry of the Interior of North Rhine-Westphalia has now produced an opinion on Scientology, not about VPM, but about Scientology, in which Scientology has been judged as follows: Scientology is an association with totalitarian tendencies, with totalitarian worldly political orientation, and Scientology is a society that consciously tries to also accumulate political and economic power for the interests of its own organization. This is the first question, or the first request I have to you, Minister of the Interior. Of course, it is not unknown to me that there is something like sect monitoring in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. The problem with this sect monitoring in Austria is the following: It moves – at present – on a very, very gray and legally not well ground. - That's point one. Point two: This sectal unit, which you have established in the field of state police, can practically only be used for the Vienna area, while everything that happens in the federal states is largely beyond your authorities' means of influence or observation. I therefore call on you to ensure that this state is changed, that at last it is made serious with what you are clearly planning, namely that, in the daily newspaper "The Press" of last Saturday, and there is no reason to doubt it, a corresponding change of association law is envisaged by its authority or by the relevant section, with the aim of organizing association law in such a way that the activities of sects and similar organisations can also be managed in such a way that their economic significance and economic operations, which serve solely specific purposes, can be better controlled and monitored. I think that is a reasonable way to go. However, this path still needs to be extended. In my opinion, the activity of this sect's unit must also be improved. Now I am at the next point, and this is not insignificant, because what I have now tried to characterise in relation to the VPM, to Scientology, to this activity in the right spectrum, to these seams to the Freedom Party, has a little meaning also for the second phenomenon which I must now introduce to you, because it has bothered me since yesterday. Yesterday, the Freedom Party presented a series of ads dealing with the issue of the EU, in a way I can say: Yeah, I really like that. I don't think it's bad how it's done. However, the problem I have with this advertising series, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, is this: I know that what you brought out as an advertising series in the last few days was obviously developed 14 days or three weeks ago in the magazine "TATblatt" and apparently cut off by you, so it is obvious that there must be direct links between the "TATblatt" and the Freedom Party. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Unfortunately, I can only present it in black and white, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, ladies and gentlemen in the House! [[Abg. Rosenstingl: It's not going any longer!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] That's the listing. , in the "TATblatt" 14 days ago, time of publication 4. April, published. [[The speaker keeps a photocopy up to date.]] [[Abg. Anschhober: Oh!]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: I'd turn a little back! That you have this information!]] Identical, I just couldn't grow it any different. [[the speaker keeps a magazine up to date]] According to "daily everything" of yesterday, there's a fact-of-the-art equalizing listing... [[Abg. Böhacker: Fatal or actual?]] I can read it to you if you don't believe it. "TATblatt" listing, 4. April: "For the first time" – listen to me! – "for 50 years over 9 percent unemployed. [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: It's such a nonsense that you can't listen at all!]] What do you mean, why?" - "TATblatt". [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Insect of the liberals – I just couldn't get it into another format –: "Highest unemployment in the Second Republic. What do you mean, why?" – That’s almost word-identical, I’d say. One can only draw certain conclusions from it, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party does it act in what was in it in the "TATblatt" to a paid advertisement of the FPÖ? [[Abg. Böhacker: That the "TATblatt" has been cut off from the Federal Government!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: I think so too!]] That's why I'd rule out because of the time of the 4th. April is, and I have not believed that so far, because the Freedom Party has appeared to me as the only political group who in a way wanted to express itself in the bulwark against terrorism, with the exception – I know – of the private association Kiss, Mühlbachler & Co, who wanted to bring the "Action 8000" under control and in connection with terrorism. I know your deserving activity in this respect cannot be estimated enough. But perhaps we also find similar connections between Kiss, Mühlbachler & Co and the Freeman and then third in the band of the "TATblatt". [[Abg. Böhacker: colleague! Read the text of the advertisement of the Freemen!]] The problem I have is of course: If it wasn't an listing of the liberals in the "TATblatt", then what was it? – In any case, it is striking that it is the same method and almost word-identical. So far, in such cases you have heard from your site: That's terrorist! Now I'm saying, That would be the same terrorist method! - That's your vocabulary, not mine. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: We have nothing to do with terrorists!]] – Is it the same terrorist method, or is it a "TATblatt" campaign of the FPÖ? [[Abg. Böhacker: How does the Federal Government's advertising campaign look like? Come to the truth!]] Do you want to help the "TATblatt" – which would also be an imaginable variant – to create an unimaginable publicity as you have tried in the past? – Then you should disclose these links, which may include business connections to the "TATblatt". There is also another variant: It is significant that the one who, as I believe, has developed this advertising campaign from your side, Mr Rumpold, was clearly withdrawn from the first row. I ask the High House: What were the reasons for the Freedom Party for withdrawing Mr Rumpold from the first row? What were the reasons for this? – Does it perhaps have to do with the fact that you did not want to clearly reveal the links of Mr Rumpold to this scene here in the House? Is this it, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen! I think that is enough reason to appeal to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Minister of the Interior – I ask you, I ask you to do your utmost – to address this problem. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's so stupid!]] Try everything that could somehow be appropriate to lighten a connection between the Freedom Party and the "TATblatt" to the public! [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Oils, tell the truth!]] One thing cannot be: that the party claiming to be the bulwark against the terrorist danger in that country, obviously ideological, content, organisational and human, has the best links to this "TATblatt" scene, as is obvious from Mr Rumpold, who has been pulled out of the shooting line. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, Minister of the Interior: Please explain on this question!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28691	Mr Murauer has now been mentioned. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now return to at least as important security issues as those raised by my previous speakers. – Of course, the savings pen also had to be placed in the interior resort. There have also been corresponding savings in this area, and the great coalition – that is, the Social Democrats and the People's Party – of course does so. However, we have reached a lower limit on overtime with the executive officers. This is certainly not possible for security reasons. The savings will therefore have to be made in the administration and will have to be carried out through the disseminating of professional or foreign activities. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that fines are still being collected, or I am thinking of the mass economy, which the Federal Minister has already set as an example. There are savings potentials that could definitely still take place. On one point, Mr Federal Minister, I hope that we are already in agreement, namely on the question — Mr Kiss has today pointed out — that the official is listening to the street that the security bodies should be seen to be with the population. I also believe that they are in the right place to be in favour of the security of the population and also to have contact with the population. I would like to stress once again the comments made by Mr Kiss: The official belongs to the public and not to the station or perhaps to the ministry, because there he is securing our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have mentioned something else, something that Mr Firlinger has said, and it was rather funny to listen to; Mr Firlinger has already looked for the space, it is only one liberal member. Mr Peter, perhaps you could tell Mr Firlinger that the 500-S fee which was discussed in the Committee - Mr Firlinger was not in the committee and no other of the Liberal Members, yet he meant that he was in any case well-informed, so that he opposed what the Liberals said in principle, namely that they were overrun; so somewhere you would have to unite your language system once; either you are not informed or you have been, or have not been involved in it – that this 500-S fee should also be used to ensure that the officials do not necessarily have to go out on every small matter and are called on by the injured, because you think that the judgement of an official, the records of an official, then, are there to give justice to one or the other before the insurance or court. Would you please do that? I would also have asked for a common language arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about another security problem in our country, namely the safeguarding of borders. The security report identifies the safeguarding of the borders separately and deals in particular with those of the external borders. It is our duty and our primary duty to comply with the Schengen Agreement. It is not up to other EU countries to call us, as the Bavarians have done, and to tell us that we have our external borders to ensure that we have our borders in the interests of Europe, but also in the interests of our State, to close our borders. We must pay particular attention to this in the future! Since, Mr Federal Minister, there must be no half-heartedness and no sage, there must be no ambiguity here as to who is responsible for which office and who should carry out what task. Federal Minister! We must equip our executives serving at the border with excellent instruments. We must decide on simpler laws, those which are manageable to the officials, and thus jointly seek to re-establish motivation with the officials, a motivation that he urgently needs in order to guarantee security for our people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, the view was expressed that border security was a non-conventional use of the German army. I would like to remind you that the Federal Government already has the task of being responsible for our security of safeguarding the borders. I therefore particularly welcome the agreement on a four-year assistance campaign by the Federal Government. The German army is not a culprit, as Mr Scheibner has said; it is also now away, which really surprises me, because it has done so hard on security issues and has meant what the coalition or the Federal Government does not do or fail to do everything wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! The security of Austria depends on the safeguarding of the external borders. However, I would like to stress another need – it has already been attracted here today –: Our officials are better cared for, their training is more efficient. We need a security academy, and we want a security academy – in the interests of our executive officials! We must make every effort to ensure that the Security Academy in Bälden will be a reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, we are dealing with international crime, we are dealing with trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, trafficking in nuclear materials, there are robbers who invade our country, demolish, rob and are gone. This goes down to the simple car thefts by people who work on orders and are organized internationally. Unfortunately, the crime is a big step ahead of God, and our executive is too far behind. We demand better equipment for our safety organs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Minister! There are still some results outstanding. For example, I should like to remind you that we urgently need a Stapo reform – the People's Party is behind it too – that we have to comply with the Schengen Agreement, that there are still failures, that there are still no results in the issue of letter bombs, and that we are aware of organised crime and of the fact that the PKK has an office in Austria to deal with a lot of security issues. I should therefore like to ask you to focus particularly on your place of business and to focus more on it, rather than doing games of thought in the public, which tend to spread uncertainty in the public. You better not do that. Federal Minister! If you remember that we do not need a national defence, if you remember that the Gendarmerie or police could, with a second rifle, take over the tasks of the Federal Army anyway, or that the news office, as you confirmed once again, could be dissolved, then the things you should no longer consider in the public, but, if you need to do so, should be discussed in internal working groups. We expect results in all the above questions. You will find in us a constructive coalition partner for the security of Austria in fulfillment of the tasks quoted.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28799	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28821	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I get into the debate, I would like to address a few words to my previous speakers in this debate. – Mr Elmecker, SPÖ’s security spokesperson, was completely dissolved at the stage today. His excitement was inexplicable to me, but what is it? What Mr Elmecker has said about road accidents, namely that it is right that a fee should be paid in the event of an accident involving property damage, I personally think that it is absolutely wrong. I think I can speak on this from my own experience. I quote a report from the OAMTC: "The 500-S fee also makes the fight against alcohol more difficult on the tax and traffic accidents. The number of alcotests after accidents will decrease, the statutory obligation of the authorities to record accident frequency points will be undermined, the continuation of accidents with dangerous scrap cars will be irresponsibly facilitated." – I absolutely agree with this opinion. Furthermore, I believe that I can claim to be aware of this regulation: In the event of a traffic accident with property damage, the driver will certainly have a so-called slight injury, which also means that he can avoid these costs and also the executive will have much more work to do. But I do not want to blame Mr Elmecker. In view of the fact that the SPÖ's security spokesman exercises the profession of a teacher, I do not want to agree with him entirely, but at least to say that he has relatively little idea of the internal work of the executive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On remuneration reform: Mr Elmecker said that the reform of remuneration in the field of public services and in the field of executives would have brought about a substantial increase. This is also to be contradicted. In the course of the salary reform, allowances, including the 73a, 73b and so on, have been integrated into the salary, which no longer leads to this area being awarded. This led to an increase in the amount of 15 900 S to approximately 18 000 S gross, which has been effected in Class III/10 as follows: I had the pleasure of being in this service class. This was certainly the worst rated, but my gross earnings in this new salary were said and written 30 p. – that was the salary reform. But now to the ÖVP. Mr Kiss, you have accused our colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, of constantly criticizing and not making any proposals. It is easy for the liberals to make proposals, but these proposals, which we make with seriousness and in best quality, are absolutely not taken seriously by you. However, it can be seen that you take up these one and a half years later and make them your own requests here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That can't be cooperation. We will make our proposals ourselves on an appropriate occasion in the future. I can gain substantially more from the arguments of Mr Günther Platter, who is the general army official and in the field of executives certainly has the knowledge needed to talk about it. But if he claims that the liberals are ruining the country, I would like to reject it. In a debate such as here in Parliament, we are trying to bring about an understanding of our efforts to improve the standard by means of contributions and criticism of certain things, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, so that you can make an effort to improve the standard and to equip the executive with more resources and with better technical conditions so that it can meet the perpetrators with the same means. That's our job as an opposition party. [[Call the ÖVP: You don't even praise!]] There's no need for applause. You just have to listen. But I would like to begin today with a quote from the 1994 Security Report. It sounds beautiful: "The trust of citizens in justice, the maintenance of internal security and the protection against crime are important foundations of the democratic rule of law. To maintain and develop this confidence must be one of the priorities of security policy. In carrying out this task, the Austrian Federal Government has put in place numerous measures in the field of the Federal Ministry of the Interior and in the field of the Federal Ministry of Justice in order to improve the effectiveness of both the prevention and investigation of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal law. The personal security of people in Austria is not a static size, but is the subject of continued and strengthened efforts." These are words that are especially popular with executives. This means that the united party's election promise should have been believed before the election, where, among other things, Vienna's mayor Häupl spoke of a better payment and of a better technical equipment for the executive. In order to illustrate this constituency, however, one must look back into the past. As never before, the executive officials were led by the government parties on the occasion of the election of personnel representatives. In the period January 1995 to December 1997, we expect a real wage loss of around 10 percent. Forgett are the election promises with regard to better payment and financial remuneration of the gravity of the executive service. The insurances are forgotten not to affect holiday and Christmas money tax. [[Abg. Leikam: This is adventurous! And this is Gendarmerie Officer!]] The trade union of the public service, together with its chairman Siegfried Dohr, has once again proved to be a means of fulfillment of the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Typical AUF propaganda!]] Such a development was predictable and was also announced accordingly by the liberal trade unionists in 1995. Of course, both our officials and the liberals were publicly accused of saying the untruth at that time. Now it turned out: Not we have panicked, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have deliberately and obviously done suffrage. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The executive officials have to bear the threefold burden through this load package of the Federal Government. They are affected by tax measures, family measures and public service measures. Not surprising for the executive was the result of the current pay round: one-off payments for the year 1996 amounting to 2 700 S and one-off deduction payments of 3 600 S for 1997. That corresponds de facto to a zero-son round. However, a de facto zero wage round means that reference to 1995 will be made to the 1998 salary round. This measure is thus equivalent to the withdrawal of a biennial jump. This was not surprising, however, because during the negotiations on remuneration reform, it was found that the cost of remuneration reform had to be included in the following salary rounds, apart from the fact that for most officials the increase in the pension contribution from 10 to 11.5% and the extension of the salary agreement by April 1996 had already absorbed the plus of remuneration reform. Sensational, on the other hand, was the increase for prisoners: plus 3.8 percent. [[Abg. Aumayr: That was important!]] Yes, they are more important than those who are concerned about how to help the Austrian citizen to his right so that he can continue to live in a secure Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another key point is significant planning savings in the field of executives. For example, in 1996 and 1997 around 1 000 planning posts will be saved in this area. The fact that a load study has been prepared in the area of the federal army is particularly noteworthy. In this load study, the activities were covered by the 1992, 1993 and 1994 evidence of activity and were also combined with other matters relating to infrastructure. This has resulted in the fact that a minus of 207 plant sites were present in the area of the Bundesgendarmerie in particular. According to our knowledge, this stress study has been prepared in the federal state of Tyrol, where the main factors may have played a role there, but which are certainly not to be implemented on eastern conditions. Instead of obtaining the missing planning sites, the following procedure has been chosen: The minutes of a meeting in the Federal Ministry show that, based on the load statistics in the federal states of Burgenland and Carinthia, each 60 planning posts will be saved from 50 plant sites and 20 plant sites at the Landengendarmeriekommando for Lower Austria. However, it is not about planning sites in the Ministries or the so-called Mother Houses, but about planning sites of Gendarmerieposten. This means that although there is a minus of 207 plant sites in the Federal Army, in 1996 220 plant sites are saved and in 1997 220 plant sites are also saved. [[Abg. Leikam: This is adventurous!]] The same happens in the Federal Police Department, where in 1996 264 and in 1997 254 planning posts are saved. More than anything else appears in this Protocol: It has been noted that there will be no post-compilations under the title "savings". On the other hand, it is important to check whether, in the area of the border, in particular, where border surveillance posts are or are being built, the local gene army posts are still necessary. After the service structure concept was completed in 1991, it appears that a new service structure concept is being implemented. This means that further closures of services within the executive can be expected. In such an initial situation, what is the meaning of the measures mentioned at the outset if the executive can no longer comply with its own task of maintaining public order, peace and security? There will no longer be preventive measures in the future. Monitoring orders will no longer be possible. In addition, there is a stopover and there is no possibility of re-occupying in the most important areas. However, security is also at risk by the fact that there were 20% savings in multiservices already in 1995, 5% in 1996 and 3% in 1997. Examples of this kind are the reductions in the rewards already taken into account in the 1995 budget approach, but this decision was strangely removed before the election of personnel representatives and the total amount of remuneration paid to executive officials for their benefit, although, as already mentioned, these were thought to be savings in 1995. Comments from the so-called executive or general army or police union did not exist or they were concealed within this body. None of the following counter-arguments have been brought into the negotiations and taken into account: Officials are affected three times in their savings. As a matter of fact, the Restitution Protection has fallen in 1994 with the redesign of the § 38 Civil Service Law. Officials will receive a higher pension, but no redundancies for that. Officials have a salary system which starts with a low initial reference and only increases over the years. Executive officials must undergo a strict selection procedure and have two years of basic training. There is no other profession in the Federal Service which provides for a two-year theoretical basic training. For this purpose, executive officials are in a preliminary position with regard to evaluation and income in the civil service scale, especially in front of officials in craftsmanship. The executive service is subject to special burdens such as changeover, external service in any weather, command and forced force up to the high retirement age of 60 years, as well as the obligation to overtime benefits under § 50 Civil Service Law. In the event of a cancellation of this overtime obligation, it is likely that some services of the service will not be guaranteed. While the executive is required in a financial and organisational way, those responsible do not seem to think at all about the latest survey results. The need for security has been put first by the population. Our liberals therefore stand for the following objectives: First: We do not want a de facto zero son round for the executive, but we demand a percentage increase in salary. This would ensure that the 1997 reference date for the 1998 salary negotiations could be used. The Court of First Instance would have been the introduction of a base amount of 1 100 S per month for income up to a certain maximum amount. Secondly, No further departments of the executive must be closed, but all services must be equipped according to the latest knowledge of the technology, such as the still missing computer systems. Thirdly, No additional services in the field of executives should be saved, as they endanger security and will no longer be able to take into account the task of maintaining public order, peace and security. Fourth: No further planning posts in the field of executives must be saved, but, for example, in the Federal Army, the missing stock of 207 official planning posts must be immediately filled in. Fifth, you open a bottle There must be no overtime savings in the area of executives, because this inevitably entails a loss of quality in the product's work or service. The motivation of executive officials is automatically reduced by such political work. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is obviously not courageous or capable enough to take reasonable and comprehensive steps so as not to lose the standard in the field of safety. Especially in times like those where the crime rate is increasing, it is necessary to combat crime with the appropriate means. In the interests of the safety needs of all Austrians, I am looking for you to meet our demands so that our currently safe Austria remains.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28945	I now give the floor to Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz. Mr Perfuss. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e28967	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lammer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr Lammer, you are concerned about the competence of our security spokesman. I am convinced that, although Mr Elmecker is a teacher, he understands security as much as you do, if not anymore. I would just like to point out: Stand by in your own party, because your principle is not consistent in your party either. As far as I know, Mr Krüger is not an artist, and yet he talks about art. So I hope you're gonna get through and change that. [[Abg. Aumayr: The Krüger is already an artist!]] [[Call:]] He's already an artist? It's gone away from me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words on the topic of foreigners. With regard to this topic, one always tries to split Austria into two camps. It's wrong to say: Everyone who wants to come to us. It is just as wrong, however, to say: Stop! Limits close! All right, let's go! The Austrian Federal Government has built integration policy on two pillars to produce a gentle solution between the opposites. The first pillar is that Austria needs legal bases to maintain an orderly move, taking into account the general housing situation and the labour market situation, without losing its status as a traditional country of asylum for politically persecuted persons. The second pillar is based on the idea that people who eventually, for whatever reason, have come to our country should have the opportunity to get the best possible integration. This consistent policy is intended to enable all people living here in Austria, regardless of their origin, to create as good work and living conditions as possible in the long term as possible and social recognition, all the more so as a good integration policy helps significantly improve the domestic climate between domestics and immigrants. The fact that there is still a need for improvement has also been said by Mr Kier during the debate on the morning and has shown that there is an increase in the criminal field of crimes in connection with extreme right-wing and xenophobia. The Federal Minister, together with the Coalition Partner, has a package of integrations in preparation with the aim of promoting or simplifying the integration of those who have moved in. Like many other European countries, Austria is also in the future with a large migration movement – I emphasize: Migration and not immigration! . which began in the early 1990s. The migration movement of the near future includes, for example, the voluntary return of former Bosnian refugees to their home country. Federal Minister In particular, it calls for the support of projects for reconstruction. The priority is to support two basic needs of the returning Bosnians, namely, to create jobs and, on the one hand, housing in their own country. Projects on the labour market and housing will make a decisive contribution to the reconstruction of infrastructure. In addition, international measures should be adopted to protect the population, as the political situation in our neighbouring countries is not yet described as very stable. The return to the home country will also take place in cooperation with the UN Refugee Commission. Austria is not alone with the voluntary return project. The Norwegian Government is also relying on voluntary return and is even trying to provide a financial incentive for this. 12 000 Bosnians are currently living in Norway. Although only 200 Bosnians have returned to their home country until now from Norway, the Norwegian Government is convinced that many Bosnians will make use of the offer. In contrast to other countries such as Germany or Sweden, where the Bosnia-Herzegovina live mainly on social aid, some 55,000 refugees in Austria could be integrated. They have work and home today and also come for their maintenance themselves. A immediate return will, of course, not be possible for these people, but rather for the remaining 20,000 to 25 000 whose stay is limited until the end of June. At all events, the project of repatriation must be handled very carefully, since the Dayton peace agreement also makes it possible to re-frozen the war in the former Yugoslavia. We hope, however, that the war belongs to the past. Dear ladies and gentlemen! All in all, it is clear that the Federal Government has proved a good deal in the refugee field, which has also presented a great challenge to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29022	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29044	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Oellinger, who has preferred to leave the plenary room after his speech, tries to bring the liberals to the vicinity of the left terrorism due to possible contacts with the "TATblatt", this is bound by the absolute top of ridicule! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is something new!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, I believe that it is very dangerous for someone to sit in a glass house, but the one he tries to meet with the stone is not in the glass house. And it should be known to you what role the Greens play, especially as regards the left-wing terrorist scene. It is not about here a request for representation concerning the investigation of a group JLS in Linz with the address Starhembergstraße 25. This group is the "Young Left Voice Green-Alternative Youth Linz". Incidentally, this address is also the address of the Green Office. And what did they do? – You have requested an instruction on the construction of bombs and letter bombs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are the Greens?]] It may be a coincidence that they've been in this office. Mr Anschober has tried to weaken this by saying that this instructions should be used to protect against letter bombs and bombs. To protect this guide was requested! What is documented with it? – Obviously the lack of confidence in the competent authorities, in the competent bodies, obviously in your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister! However, I also allow myself to respond to Mr Elmecker's words from the SPÖ. He has tried to explain the very positive criminal statistics and has stated that in the area of drugs there is a reduction of 17 percent, which is a great success! On the other hand, in the area of serious damage to property, he reported an increase of 12 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! These two figures alone show how to view statistics in the final effect. Everyone in this House knows that drug use and necessarily the associated crime have increased. I therefore believe that the statement and withdrawal of the success of the work being done in this area are not acceptable, even if the statistics show that area particularly positive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can say, Mr Kiss, who looks dreamily toward the liberal – I don't know what he's dreaming about – It is a misconception when he interprets the speech made by Mr Kier as a high stylization of the ÖVP on the number one of the government coalition. I do not think, Mr Kiss, that we can understand Mr Kier's speech in this way. I mean, he wanted to express – and he has also expressed it – that what you have finally announced before the elections and what you have accused the Minister of State is contrary to your current behaviour. You have subordinated to the Minister's inability and demanded his resignation, you have said: There is no question that the ÖVP is entering into a government coalition with the SPÖ, if Minister One is in it, it is not in question when Mr Finanzminister Staribacher is present. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who said that?]] – That’s what Kiss said, that’s what Klubobmann Khol said. It was also from Höchtl who spoke of any horses he did not want in the government. Now, after the election, everything is different. Obviously, a decisive turn has taken place. However, I do not think that the EIA has fallen by the wayside. I think she's already crawled on the belly or even under the carpet to the negotiations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I still understand that if you have found yourself in the course of the coalition negotiations. There was obviously a corresponding interest in maintaining power for your party. What I do not understand, however, is that those people who have previously accused the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs of everything possible and who have not brought about any changes in the field of the internal and the intentions of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, at the same time, are also those who, in the Committee negotiations, miss out on a unit of strike and act as if nothing had been done. This is a line that the citizen certainly knows! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, in the event of a request from the executive – and now I come to the actual area to be dealt with in this debate – for 500 S in the event of accidents with property damage, Mr. Bundesminister One said: What is it? Then the accident has already happened! - That's right. Federal Minister One calculates 16 million schillings a year, which he can lead in this way to the budget. However, an increase in body injuries will be the result. What does that mean? – The personal damage for which nothing can be paid for for the time being, although already 2,000 s are in the conversation somewhere, will increase dramatically. It will increase the number of whipping syndromes, there will be an increase in insurance premiums, and ultimately the citizen will have to pay all of this. They get the citizen back in the bag. I ask you, Minister of State: What difference does it make as to whether this is an accident with personal injury or damage to property? – They say: In case of a sheet metal damage, it has already happened. – The executive also does not come as a medicament! An accident with personal damage has already happened! The logical consequence, I believe, is that, in the end, we will also collect fees for the use of executives in the event of accidents involving persons. Federal Minister! You may have read in today's "Kronen-Zeitung" that part that concerns you. It was about the fact that the head of the German border police in Passau, Mr Heisl, visited Vienna and said that what is happening in the area of border security in Austria is completely inadequate, especially at the present time. We know that an avalanche has taken off, which must be stopped. Many people come to us from the former Eastern bloc, unfortunately God also has people who are dealing with drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and, as we know, drug crime. Heisl calls for better communication, which is obviously not guaranteed, and he also doubts the form of training you want to achieve this border guarantee. – They themselves have talked about the overscheduling of the customs authorities from their original area to border control with the training of half a year – which is a fast-seated training. I wish you every success! The savings in the area of executives, ladies and gentlemen, are, as I believe, an attack on the security needs of the Austrian population! Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of movement requires that no cuts be made, particularly in the field of safety. We consider it an attack to be carried out in 1996 only in the area of the Gendarmerie in the amount of 220 planning posts and in 1997 in the amount of 220 planning posts. Federal Minister! They were already responsible for this area in 1995, i.e. internal security. In 1995, services were also deleted: 137 already. The Civil Service Law provides that overtime, when arranged, is mandatory. This is not about overtime made of jux and tollery, but about overtime arranged to maintain the service. I have made the effort to sum up the overtime savings for 1996 and 1997, which are intended to be combined, and I do not want to abstain from these figures, ladies and gentlemen: It is 1 170 000 overtimes you want to save in the area of the Gendarmerie. If I add 1995 to the 1995 budget, in which there have also been cuts, I come to 1 880 000 hours. If I remember that there have been similar savings in the police, I have to say: This is a measure that certainly does not serve the security of the Austrian population, the security of our citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In response to my question in the Committee on External Economic Relations concerning further reduction of services, Mr. Hauserminister replied: This is not intended and not intended. And then he added: Unless structural measures would make this necessary. – I think this is a vicious circle that closes here again. Overtime required for the operation shall be deleted. Services can no longer be occupied to the extent necessary, and the conclusion of this vicious circle is that there will be a further reduction of the services. In any event, the service operation will no longer be able to be maintained in the appropriate form. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would ask you again that you do not give your consent to the reduction of these planning posts in the vote. Voices They do not allow the overtime to be removed so that services can no longer be maintained. Do not give your consent to a law that, in turn, lets citizens get into the pockets, as will be the case for example in the field of road accidents without harm to persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29154	Mr Puttinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on – Deputies! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29176	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present internal budget represents a 3.33% increase in this year and an increase of 0.26% in the next year and, I believe, reflects the government's savings will in principle. I think we are rightly talking about saving and saving today. "Save" is certainly the most stressed word in this and next week in this House. I therefore believe that, with permission, I am immediately asking whether the necessary and essential savings are being made efficiently and in the right place. Of course, we should also be separated from the executive, but only insofar as the security of the citizens is not affected. I think we're all aware of this here in the house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me, ladies and gentlemen, draw up three premises which are, in any case, important to me in this regard. First: Save – yes, but in the right place. Secondly, It must take account of the legitimate security needs of citizens. Thirdly, Development of subsidiarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The first point, namely to save in the right place, is a small example. Federal Minister! At a time when, according to the safety report, drug offenders are growing massively, international and organized crime is growing, and the or the letter bombers are not yet taken up, it is not in line with the security needs of our citizens when officials are saved from the Federal Police this year 281 and next year 254, but at the same time new posts for the central management 79. If you already increase the posts in the central management by 79 people, I wonder, Minister of State, why it is not possible to reform the state police if you say that there are 24 or 25 posts out there to reform them accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Kiss has said, personnel reduction must not mean that thousands of officials are less there in the future, but that we do not find these thousand officials on the streets. That would save in the wrong place! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To point 2: In order to take account of the citizens' legitimate need for security, I would also like to give an example that is forward-looking. The fulfillment of the Schengen Agreement will certainly cost us about 2 billion schilling by the year 2000. However, I can only say that we budget 136 million Schilling for the total cost of the hardware, 317 million Schilling for the DVÜ and 373 million Schilling software. However, the advantage of the reduction of internal borders and the benefits of the free movement of persons should not be jeopardised by misunderstandable economy. That's how it's supposed to be until the 1st. In July 1997, the external border has the technical requirements, i.e. it is to be equipped with computer devices, passport reading devices, crew helicopters and a central computer system. However, I doubt that the resources provided for in the budget will be sufficient to take part in the Schengen Agreement with 1. In July 1997, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative You have budgeted only a small part of the total cost this year and next year. This, of course, also poses a threat to security in the united Europe, so that, at the end of the day, security at our external borders is also very dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This will not only strengthen citizens' distrust of the EU, but it will not take into account a fundamental need for citizens' security. The third premise I mentioned at the beginning of my debate is subsidiarity; Subsidiarity understood in such a way that the tasks were to be done where they could best be done. Here is also an example, ladies and gentlemen: § 11 of the Security Police Act provides the legal basis for strengthening local levels in competence and personnel, streamlining staff management and decentralising budgetary and personnel sovereignty – of course always in agreement with the countries. As I said, the possibilities are available. We need to implement them. Minister, please do this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But subsidiarity also means - and I am glad that you, Mr Minister, who has already confirmed this today - to hand over to private individuals something that can be done better than to officials, whether it be the monitoring of resting traffic, whether it be the expansion of the vehicle sector or much more. Saving doesn't mean wasting. A parade example of how public resources are wasted by coordination problems, double-tracks and overlaps is provided by the state police. I would just like to mention three small examples: First: There, official actions between Group C – State Police Service, Section II/6, Section II/7 and Special Unit EBT are so badly coordinated that the subordinate departments in the federal states often did not even know who was responsible for what or who treated what. Or another example: Many surveys have been made twice! And third example: Due to the variety of subordinate positions of Group C, there was a fragmentation of the forces that could be used. There, I think we have to stop wasting billions of money! In summary, therefore, the ÖVP calls for a new quality of the work of the State Police, an organisational structure that is comprehensible, a decentralisation – i.e. the integration and integration of the knowledge of the countries and districts – and finally the transformation of the Stapo towards constitutional protection. Mr. Federal Minister! These two budgets are the first to come under your responsibility. I certainly don't want to hurt your activity, Minister, I want to give you courage. We, the ÖVP – bowl and all of us – will meet these challenges. Give you, too, Minister, how we trust people, hope and optimism for the future! But take the opportunity to make the best use of the budget available to you by taking into account the safety of citizens by ensuring that they are saved where necessary and by helping to break through the principle of subsidiarity! I ask you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29275	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Your speaking time is up to 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29296	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the debate has developed very smoothly and, in my view, there is enough time available, I have not made use of the possibility of a reply, but I try to do so in the form of a short word message, especially as this gives me the freedom to go beyond the hard core of the reply. First of all, Mr Kiss, who has unfortunately misunderstood me, is the reason for this, and I would like to put it right: I was not of the opinion that the EIA is the security party of the first election, but I wanted to emphasize that what the EIA is doing in these fields is a security risk of first rank. I'm sorry about this misunderstanding. [[Abg. Leikam: After the speech of Puttinger he is right!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Platter helped me, because he once again supported it. He presented two aspects. First of all, he kept his mind firmly – and there I am entirely on his side – against flat-rate attacks on the safety executive as: as dim as open doors. It is right to reject this flat-rate attack, and I am not prepared to join him on this point. The fact that he has overlooked the fact that we actually have a real problem with the practice of silence in the field of security executives is really sorry, because this is extremely damaging to the police. That, as all of us here in this House know, whole media sites would not be possible at all, if not 1 : 1-Information flows from the security executive in certain editorials, this is of course a democratic problem, it affects the human dignity of some who are thereby drawn by the media to injustice and untimely. This circumstance is then a feeding ground on which prejudices also arise. So it was actually a matter of focusing more on the fact that such abuses of official secrecy are just a bar, rather than complaining that others then cultivate the prejudice that the police are at all like that. This is so important to me because Mr Platter referred to Mr Kiss in this case. But I was absolutely certain that I had to speak again when, at once, the problem of drugs was raised and the question was raised in the room, how it was with the soft drugs and at all, and when a Philippines was held here for the criminalisation of drug addicts. I am very surprised, therefore, because the essential drug in this country, the drug that actually affects hundreds of thousands of our citizens, which brings a wealth of suffering and misery to many families, namely alcohol, has not mentioned Mr Platter. I'll tell you: Although I know how much sorrow, suffering and pain come from alcohol, I do not think that we should criminalise it, but we should also take this phenomenon as what it is, namely as a disease which we are very lightly promoting, as long as, for example, we do not go down from 0.8 to 0.5 promille in the area of alcoholic handleers, because we are speaking of some false invitations. It is important not to come here and simply polemize against people who think that a drug addict is a sick person who needs help and not punishment, attack these people, be blind to one eye, and completely ignore the drug of alcohol. It is very important to me to mention this here, because I believe we should not be self-congratulating and with our finger point to those who consume drugs that are not socially capable in our country, and take advantage of ourselves because we consume drugs that are socially recognised. This double-beddedness has also provoked me to speak. Finally, I would like to say: Unfortunately, the Federal Minister himself has also misunderstood me. I have noted that there are no budgetary approaches in the federal financial laws to this end. He then said how excited we would have been only if budget approaches had been formed. – He is right, of course, we would be more concerned about a lot if we had found budget approaches in the financial laws on noise attack and grid arrest. But I said here: If this budget is prepared in a serious way and does not include budgetary approaches to noise attack and grid arrest, then there is a great hope that these instruments will not be introduced, otherwise a budget for the restructuring of the federal budget would have been created and a very substantial expenditure position would simply have been omitted. Making a budget means making a preview of what will come in 1997 and it does not yet need the law to budget carefully. So if a serious will were daily, you should have budgeted it. I don't understand in such a case. As to the magnitude of the costs, it is a good thing to argue about them. I am still of the opinion that the amounts mentioned by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly detract from the burden of noise attack and grid arrest. In this sense, it was important for me to clarify these misunderstandings. If you already have the opportunity to do it, you should make use of it. Mr Khol, who intended to be able to attack my colleague, Mr Firlinger, by saying that he did not know what was going on, because he was not present at a certain committee meeting, I would like to say very cordially... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Were you in the committee?]] I was in committee. My report on what was going on there was based on our decision... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So you weren't there!]] Mr Khol, I am speaking and not you. Even if you're a clubman, you won't be able to take the floor. Mr Khol! If you think you can only say something if you were personally present at the same time, then I would ask you to keep silent in many cases, because you cannot have been everywhere. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Being informed does not necessarily mean being present personally. I was personally in this committee. And what I have reported in the Group was one of the reasons why we decided to be informed there with our employees, but not to participate in the sham parliamentarianism. That's a political decision. You can appreciate this differently, but I have nothing to do with it. I understand that you have to see it differently, because you depend on formal procedures, because you have to make the majority formally; I am totally d’accord with you. But You cannot demand an opposition that it also act as if it were real parliamentaryism and build up the facade for you. In our small section, we have vented the curtain so that people can see how you operate parliamentarianism, but in reality we have a double ground. And this is very important to show and to shame. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29374	I now give the floor to Mr Sigl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29396	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Puttinger, I have had to draw controversial opinions from your speech to your colleague, Kiss. I am surprised that there was no fractional equation. In today's debate on the Federal estimates chapter of internal affairs, I would like to point out to you the special importance of the reforms in the field of security bodies guaranteed by the 1996 and 1997 Federal estimates. These reforms continue the successful path of restructuring and innovation in the field of executives. That in XVIII. and XIX. The legislative period of rationalisation initiated was strongly criticized by a circle. It was then called into question the efficiency of such reforms and even the reduction of safety standards in our country. That is why I would like to present to you some of the planned reforms at the Gendarmerie for 1996 and the following years, which are secured by the Federal proposal. Success always has many fathers, but the encouraging results, for example in the accident report, can be attributed mainly to the committed use of the Gendarmerie and Police forces as well as to the improved technical resources of the executive. In 1995, there were the lowest number of road fatalities since 40 years. Compared with 1994, about 128 people died less on Austrian roads. Fortunately, in the first third of 1996, this balance of road fatalities reduced by another 16 percent compared with the previous year. Similarly, the number of accidents caused by excessive consumption of alcohol decreased. These positive statistical figures could be achieved through increased traffic monitoring of the safety bodies. Thus, in 1995 the executive conducted more than 72,000 alcohol tests. The increased speed controls with the new radar and laser measurements of the executive caused nearly 1.4 million ads and organ mandates to be carried out because of the maximum permissible speed. Traffic monitoring with 1,234 speed measures has led to a significant change in the driving behaviour of motor vehicle drivers. This can be proved by reducing the number of fatalities by 22 percent compared with 1991, the year before the introduction of laser devices. But the increased use of the executive certainly also has its limits, especially in terms of personnel. Therefore, other groups must also contribute to improving the transport situation. I am thinking, for example, of transport educators, of vehicle and road builders, of transport technicians, as well as of the legislators and the media. The motivation for managing the increasing effort of the safety bodies is not least due to the modernisation of the services and the technical aids. In this way 235 departments could be re-established, taking into account ergonomic and work physiological findings and taking into account the work processes. Furthermore, 474 Federal Army departments were secured by structural changes and by the installation of mechanical and electronic security devices. The 1996 Federal Estimate will further improve the infrastructure of the Gendarmerie. For example, by the end of 1997, the basic equipment of the executive will also be completed with computer systems. At the same time, however, the security measures for weapons and means of use are being completed this year too. Ladies and gentlemen! Further structural improvements will then be made. Furthermore, the executive forces should devote more intensively to their core tasks as a result of the automation of many administrative tasks. It was also necessary to invest in the field of training in order to raise the attractiveness of the gendarmerie service. In order to achieve a modern training, it is important to have a teaching that better communicates the action-oriented skills or skills. The previous ritual knowledge transfer has been increasingly seen as being replaced by functional training and further training. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In order to further satisfy the human need for security, we need to make the necessary money available for innovation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are voting in favour of the 1996 federal proposal in order to maintain and further expand the security standard in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29460	The honourable Member's friend has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29481	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the internal security of Austria is a fundamental concern of the ÖVP proves not only the many speeches of the ÖVP delegates on this issue today, but also the constructive work in the government and the Committee on the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The issue of security must continue to be an important, central concern for the government in the future, despite savings measures. There are some areas in which much still needs to be done to create a good working environment for those responsible for order and security in our state, namely the executive bodies. There are always good approaches in the individual groups, such as in the area of customs surveillance. The mobile surveillance group has a relatively large success rate. The introduction of banned weapons, the fight against organised crime, underground work, the success of towing and the fight against drug crime: All these are things that impressively demonstrate the existence of MÜG. However, these benefits must be performed in part under working conditions which are in no relation to them. I would like to begin by thanking the customs authorities and the MÜG for their willingness to work and for their success. Today, for example, one million cigarettes were secured in the field of Schärding. A special deployment group of the customs office of Wels has spent 4 million schilling on smuggling goods and vehicles over the past four months. A three-part concept for the division of the mobile surveillance group has been developed. The first part of the mobile monitoring group manages the train 100 percent. He specializes in this, and he is at least affected by restructuring. The train is very popular with the smugglers because you don't need to put your own car at risk and in addition, you can hide the origin of the smuggler goods better. The second part of the Mobile Monitoring Group has the task of occupying the control posts in order to comply with the Schengen Agreement. There are two mobile groups in the Mühlviertel and four in the Innviertel. There are certain work activities in both civil and uniform form. There are two main areas of use: the cigarette smuggling from the eastern block and the meat imports which have gained enormous importance through the discussion of England over night. The Achleiten mobile surveillance group is specialised in the water area, on the Danube, because increased controls in this area are becoming extremely important. The reason for this is that the opening of the Rhein-Main-Donau Canal and not least the abolition of the arms embargo against the rest of Yugoslavia in the Danube has greatly increased. This also opens up great possibilities for arms, drugs and various others, while effective control is currently almost non-existent. Good monitoring of the so-called green border is pointless if there is an open flank on the water for criminal activities. However, water monitoring is a very special field of action with which the executive is not yet familiar. This unit of the Mobile Monitoring Group must therefore be specifically trained for these tasks. Not least, the waterways add up another problem, namely that of the pushers. It has become not less in the last half of the year, but more pushers. The Bavarian border police are getting out of the problem of attacking the refugees and handing over our Gendarmerie from which they are accommodated or transferred to the Burgenländer border or to the airport Schwechat. However, there is not enough space in the prisons, and the transfer requires many overtimes, but they must not be extended, but – on the contrary! – the savings package needs to be radically shortened. In addition, the Gendarmerie no longer has enough personnel to be able to hold the refugees because of the patrols. The border police record a 20 percent increase in the number of rejected. There is, however, an obligation under international agreements to take over the prisoners. In practice, we hear that there are too many new directives and that they have to do with the new country all the time. The forces employed once took time to familiarise themselves with the current new provisions and work in order to become more routine. However, I call for a drastic strengthening of control at all borders on the import of meat imports so that the ban on exports of British beef is not circumvented by dark channels. There is a large area of application for unscrupulous business makers who want to make the big business due to the price decline in beef. The Bavarian border police continue to have severe criticisms, because the Minister of the Interior has too little efficiency in protecting the border with our eastern neighbours. Millions of people are on their way towards EU countries, among them many arms, drugs and human beings, says the head of the Bavarian border police Passau, according to "Kronen-Zeitung" and "New Volksblatt" of today. It is therefore necessary to proceed together to stop this avalanche. That's where I agree with him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the staff: The Ministry of Finance has a "structural adjustment concept 2000", which also provides for a reduction in staff. In this area, the customs guard has already been reduced from 602 to 377 men at present. 70 people have been transferred to the Gendarmerie. The criteria required for 1998 have already been met. In addition, there is a shift from the internal border to the external border. Therefore, enthusiasm holds itself in line for further savings, especially as many promises have not been met. Last but not least, the costly system in those areas in which public security services provide services, which are in the greatest interest of private individuals, who pay no or little fees. There must be a breakdown of all those tasks that do not necessarily have to be taken over by the executive. The remaining tasks need to be summarized and thematically divided so that the executive bodies have more time to devote themselves to their originally delegated tasks, thus taking a further step towards greater security in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29566	Mr Grossruck has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29587	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As in the Chapter on Education, as in the Chapter on Justice, as in the Chapter on the Interior, the savings budget does not stop, and we must also note that savings have to be made. Only: It is, of course, also up to the Ministries themselves, as and above all, whether intelligently saved, and I would ask you, Mr Minister, that you, too, in the interior of the House, make intelligent those savings measures that need to be taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll explain to you what I understand. You also made it clear in your statement that you will also receive the consent of the Austrian People's Party for your savings measures. First of all, the staff will be saved. It is also necessary to decentralize what is to decentralize what is to be decentralized, to privatise what is to be privatized, which must be the overarching currency. Initial approaches are to be registered. I am thinking of the transport support, where the tariffs are raised, so that someone who needs a transport companion is considering whether this cannot make a private person cheaper and cheaper. That is, I think, the right way: Edge tasks, which can be done better by private individuals, can also be relocated there. In connection with the Security Police Act, the ÖVP has requested - it has been decided - that decisions should be delegated to subordinate bodies. This is also a form of savings when it comes to raising human resources on the ground and moving the procurement system where this is to be done. There must be no need for a gendarmerie post who needs a bicycle tube or a group for the commander to ask in the central office if he is allowed to buy it at all. That's a change. [[Abg. Leikam: This has not been the case for a long time!]] Then you'll find out. Talk to the gendarmerie officers outside, they tell you something completely different. [[Abg. Leikam: Since 1975 this has not been the case!]] Nor should it be that the central offices are being upgraded, but the posts belong to the place where the crimes happen, where the Gauners are at home, where the powers of darkness work. There the officials belong – and not to the administrative offices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: I don't know!]] Do you agree with me? [[Abg. Leikam: No! Not with a sentence!]] You don't agree? - Good thing we know. You do not agree, so you are for more centralization and more bureaucracy. I take note of that. [[Abg. Leikam: You don't talk about security, you talk small-cared!]] It is not only the centres of assembly, Mr Minister, that have a right to safety, but also the rural regions. I bring an example of how it looks with the police and gendarmerie departments in Austria. In 1985 there were 218 police services in Austria, 1995, ten years later, 234, which is an increase of 7.3 percent. Gendarmerieposten was 1 046 in 1985 and 856 in 1995, which is a decrease of 18.2 percent. It is clear to me, Mr Minister, that these are the consequences of structural reform, structural measures. [[Abg. Leikam: He didn't get anything!]] But the trend shows that in central areas, in agglomerations, more importance is placed on security than in rural areas. That's what the numbers prove. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true! Structural reform in particular has brought more security in rural areas! He's talking loud nonsense!]] Sit down and let me talk! You can then make a statement. I think you still have time. I also made the effort to talk to gendarmerie officials. [[Further calls of the Abg. Leikam.]] Listen to me now! Last week, I met with gendarmerie officers. I don't know what you're professional, but of the Gendarmerie you shouldn't have much idea. Don't cry in like that! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Schöll.]] Minister! The Gendarmerie officials in Upper Austria complain of the savings solution, pointing out that they are difficult – please, listen! – are able to carry out the service they are required to perform properly. In 1995, 20 percent of the overtime required to perform the service had to be saved, and in 1996 it was another 5% that had to be saved. This means more weekend services, but with time-consuming, and less time to lift for the criminalist and other service. An example from practice. [[Abg. Leikam: The statistics are already known to you!]] Let me talk now! You can then speak. Don't bring common places, bring something concrete! [[Abg. Leikam: This is very concrete!]] This has not been done so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You make calls without content, and by the way, you do not take place in my speech at all! [[Abg. Leikam: Is that not clear to you: general decline in crime!]] There are pre-planned overtimes for maintaining normal operation, and there are, Minister, overtimes that arise spontaneously. Example: The service should be off at 7 o'clock in the morning, but there is an accident or there's a breakdown, then the officials on duty have to carry out the work and surveys. These overtimes are included in the normal service and saved in the following month. That, please, is the practice! [[Abg. Grabner: That's what the bowl wanted! You have no idea! Talk to the bowl what he wanted!]] That's what Gendarmerie officers told me. Talk to them! They obviously haven't talked to them yet. [[Abg. Grabner: He has no idea!]] Yes, my God, my God! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Of course, through the savings potential, Mr Minister, and respectfully by the fact that overtime must be saved during the weekend, important controls are often not completed. Alcohol controls, plan square checks cannot be carried out because of lack of time for the gendarmerie post. [[Abg. Leikam: For God's sake!]] I don't know, did I go to a wasp nest now? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is already a pit!]] Their reactions make me suspect that. You really need to find out outside. Last week, the gendarmerie officer told me about the practice. Minister! Saving the right spot is already important, but if, for example, new services are equipped with signs across Austria, which costs 6 million schilling, as I have come to my ears, I wonder if there is a proper investment. Why don't you ask me if that's true? It's been so reported to me. I can only pass it on like that. Minister! Feelings cannot be measured, even the sense of security not: It is present or not. But we can help to convey a sense of security to the people. All we have to do is take measures and save in the right place, not outside the Gendarmerie officials, where security is needed, and where there is a need for security for the population.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29835	Mr Dr. Maitz has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29857	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! The last speaker in a debate has the advantage that many Members are present in the House, and that is particularly important to me for the two concrete proposals I would like to make. First topic: Drug crime, especially among young people. Second issue: Flight rescue service. Dear Minister of the Interior! In these two There is a real need for coordination, there is a real need for cooperation. There is a need for coordination in the area of addiction crime among young people and prevention between four ministries: It is more or less responsible for the family ministry, it is the Ministry of the Interior responsible, it is the Ministry of Health and it is the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible for it. But it is actually difficult to coordinate these areas. That is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, to set up a working group across these ministries for a specific purpose, with the aim of training and providing youth guidance for all over Austria. There are two successful examples for this. In the Ministry of Youth and Family, about a year ago, the "Education Exchange for Primary Prevention" was set up and cared for by Mr. Robert Lender, and this gave initial inflammations for a number of initiatives for prevention in young people. The second example is the private association "PASS" – prevention, family work, addiction care and social advice – in Vienna in the 3rd century. District, founded four years ago by two psychotherapists, by Andreas Waller and Hans Dlouhy, who have now completed for the second time an excellent programme for the training of youth guidance consultants and pioneered in this field. It is also there as well as in the field of health: We spend a lot for healing, but we spend very little for prevention. But prevention is, of course, better than healing, and I say, also more human and financially favourable than healing and punishment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Again: Why do I so vehemently take care of this addiction in young people? – Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a fundamental point: Never has a society found the situation to offer the next generation as great opportunities as ours. But never has a society, measured by its possibilities, treated the sustainable generation as recklessly as ours. One thing is certain: Addiction is not an invention of young people, but addiction is the business of adults. That's what we should consider. On the second subject, Minister of the Interior. – The rescue has been excellent throughout Austria for ten years. In 1995, there were 1 500 bets in Styria alone, about 14,000 bets in ten years. I have had a lot of experience in this field. Article 15a contracts concluded between the country and the federal government continue to apply. In any case, the Gendarmerie and the German army will have to purchase those aircraft that are also suitable for this use, so in the future, from 1998 onwards, there will be aircraft, helicopters with two engines. So where is it missing? Why have you announced that the League will withdraw from this commitment? – The money is missing. I would ask you to look at what the return on social security is like. I am told that the packages agreed there are certainly not a sufficient contribution to the costs that the Gerettetes cause. I would suggest, in order to take advantage of the entire scope of action and also to find a solution that has the future, that you convene a "round table" in which not only the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Defence, the countries, the main association of social security companies, the automobile organizations, the Alpine associations and those commercial companies that already have similar services in their offer. A financing model for the future can be created on such a basis, yes, I say it must be created. A great deal is said to leave the air rescue service as before: Federal Government and countries have the facilities, have equipment, have the personnel and can continue these life-saving actions for many people. But there are also many who say, private economics can be better organized and also more cost-effective. However, I believe that there is a very difficult condition, namely the call for tender – and the EU-wide. We should consider what that means if we possibly get organizations that then come back to the federal states and want to overwhelm the costs. It's safe: We want the air rescue service to remain in the current quality, and we also want a new regulation to be caused by you responsibly and not by a time gap that could cause uncertainty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e29930	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Internal Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This includes Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98 in 95 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades submitted an amendment. Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades also tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts concerned by the requests and finally on the remaining parts of the Internal Advisory Group, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the deletion of Article 69. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. There is no need to vote on the requested amendment to the Article designations. Deputies Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Gartlehner and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 68 Z 9 and the provisions on entry into force of Articles 69 to 71. Ladies and gentlemen, for these parts of the draft law as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member Mag. Mühlbachler, Ing. Pronounce Gartlehner and Comrades, I'm looking for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We come to the vote on the remaining parts of the Internal Affairs Advisory Group – Articles 68 to 71, 79 and 98 – as amended by the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign on this matter. - That's the majority. Accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the meeting until Thursday, the 18. April, 9 o'clock. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the Advisory Group on Social Affairs will continue. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and suspended at 18. April, resumed at 9.0 p.m.) Continued the meeting: 18. April 1996
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30015	Ladies and gentlemen! After the President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to extend my warm welcome to you and to the 16 who have been interrupted. Resumption of the meeting of the National Council. On today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Mag. Dr. Höchtl, Mag. Chief, Mag. Kammerlander, Hans Helmut Moserund Dr. Willi Fuhrmann. These colleagues represent Austria at the Interparliamentary Union. Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30052	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzerin was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit has already been available since yesterday and the said person is present in the house today, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, Mr. Schweitzer will have to do his fishing with the words "I promise". I now ask the author, Mrs Reitsamer, to read the vow formula. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30081	You will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30096	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30112	I welcome Mr Schweitzer to the National Council again. [[General condolences.]] Articles 21 to 38 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act Social affairs
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30145	We continue the negotiation of the Structural Adjustment Act and today advises the Advisory Group on Social Affairs. It covers Articles 21 to 38. The rapporteur will be brief. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30163	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would ask the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 21 to 38 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report 95 of the Supplements. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30185	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The speaking times for today's consultation are as follows: SPÖ 195 minutes, ÖVP 182 minutes, Freedom 169 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 117 minutes. The regime for the members of the Federal Government is just as on all other days. Mr Dr. Haider spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30212	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The core of the deliberations and the measures of the Structural Adjustment Act has to do with the fact that on the one hand, it is a question of making this state narrower and, on the other hand, of getting so much room for budgetary policy to ultimately correct the difficult situation on the Austrian labour market and in the Austrian economy again by means of economic policy measures. That is why it is certainly important that there is today an in-depth debate on those issues that are currently giving priority to people in Austria. These are the questions: Will my job be safe? Will I too be affected by an increasing increase in unemployment in Austria? For example, if you read the daily newspapers, you will find again a bunch of reports on new job cuts, personnel reduction in individual companies, and the milk strike has a bit to do with the fact that, in turn, a few hundred employees have lost their jobs through concentrations in the dairy sector. Anyone who reads a little more can find that thousands of jobs in the food industry have been lost since EU accession – so today the 'Salzburger Nachrichten' –. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Please? [[Further calls by Dr. Hazelsteiner and Dr. Leiner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Irreduction!]] I quote the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', Mr. Hazelsteiner, and someone like you who resorts to cheap Portuguese workers should not talk about employment policy here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say, Mr President, that There are reports on Semperit's company, with your own vice chancellor very much talking about negotiating with the EU and Japan directly before accession to the EU, for the company Semperit and for the car supplier industry, and of completing a business so as to keep Semperit's subcontracts. . Today, the same federal government must admit that it has neither been negotiated with Japan nor has an agreement with the EU, but that there are very likely 2 300 jobs at Semperit's company, and now there is a crisis summit after one with climate, with a bowl, with this in order to save the endangered jobs. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the scenario we have to deal with. It is all the less understandable then if the Federal Government announces initiatives in its package of measures that resolve in nothing. It is announced that, according to the incisive measures which allow for less public investment in the budget, it will be added again, for example, in the area of housing development, in order to create more employment, to stimulate housing and to make the flagship function of the local construction industry more positive. What happens then? . One increases housing to 30 billion schilling, but the Committee's deliberations take back the increase by 5.5 billion, and the countries are forced to stop their budget holes with this 5.5 billion schilling. So again nothing with the initiative for more employment and more jobs! The same applies to the measures in the Structural Adjustment Act, if, for example, retroactive models are restricted. As experts from the construction industry – Mr Hazelsteiner will not dispute this – you will be told that only by the tax limitation of losses in the construction models will some 20,000 jobs be lost, in a sector of construction and construction, which is very labour-intensive. It is the question of how meaningful it is to take back such a thing. Or the construction saving: According to the Vienna Director-General Schaschl, the reduction in construction savings will cost about 10 000 jobs. Or: The introduction of energy tax will cost about 8,000 jobs. I'm just wondering: What is the point, Mr Sozialminister, of taking action here to reduce the restrictions on the short-term tax money, while on the other hand, you have billions of additional expenses for additional unemployed people arising from these restrictive measures by the Federal Government? During the budgetary deliberations, budgetary data had to be changed again, because not only economic growth is falling, but also the Minister of Social Affairs has to use increased expenditure through rising unemployment from public budgets. That's crazy what you're doing here! You take away economic initiatives, you create additional unemployed people, and you have to make more expenses from unemployment funds. It's a cycle you don't break. And the accusation we are making to you is that these structural measures do not have as always a positive emphasis on more employment, more work and economic recovery in this country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then: Limit housing, eliminate construction models, reduce construction savings, introduce energy taxes, cost jobs, not prepare the food industry for Europe, and then go here and say: Now we have produced more unemployed, but now we are building a few tunnels!, which is a cost guarantee for machines, an employment guarantee for equipment, but not an employment effect for people so that they can get back to work and develop a future perspective. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are therefore telling you: Our objective is a slim state, lower taxes, especially in the area of additional labour costs, and thus a recovery of the domestic economy. We do not see this slender state, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when the Committee's deliberations show that the Federal Government – and this in a savings package! – spending 120 to 130 million Schillings for the acquisition of a new message to be built in Berlin alone, and the construction of this new embassy in Berlin would cost around 500 million Schillings for the Republic of Austria. Is that really savings policy? We do not see the austerity policy for the slender state, either, if there are no deregulations. Where are the initiatives for the liberalisation of trade regulations? Where are the decommissioning and deregulations in the economic field? Why should the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture get more money for administration at a time when it is about creating a slim state? 20 million Schilling more money for the presidential conference, but a stopover for the local farmers in the ÖPUL programme, so that we also raise more unemployed by increasing the amount of migration from agriculture! It's just crazy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Mr Schlögl promised yesterday that the central offices would be saved in 1996. I should like to mention the current figures: In 1995 the staff position in the central offices was estimated to be 9 100 posts. 1996, so this year, we'll have 9 577 posts in the central offices. In the ministries, therefore, the posts are increasing, in the ministries the bureaucracy is increasing! Where's the slim state? . We liberals assume that a slim state is the prerequisite for this state to have the opportunity to offer economic conditions as well, to make the optimistic economies possible and to secure jobs. We therefore call on you to make a corresponding change here. This is what we are concerned about, ladies and gentlemen, namely the initiatives that are currently being discussed, for example by Mr Nuremberger, whose philosophy is to think about the abandonment of real wages – not about job creation, but about the abandonment of real wages! – or if I represent Mr. Sallmutter of the trade union of private workers: There is no day when he does not invent a new tax idea for workers. Last time he said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The older workers over 50 may have to give up part of their income, because they have been allowed to work for a lifetime anyway. – Please, has he thought about the direction in which this philosophy goes, which means that if one also uses the purchasing power in Austria, so that it is still "cut together" if there is nothing going on in the export? – This is a crazy philosophy! What are people supposed to be for, in fact, a union that always creates only burdens, always negative ones? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Sallmutter, Mr Nürnberger, Mr Ververtnich, they invent tax ideas for workers, but at the same time Mrs Ederer says: We politicians don't let us take anything away! That's what she says in a newspaper interview. But Mr. Sallmutter recommends to his employees: If you are over 50 years old, do not give up some of your income so that you can keep your businesses easier. - That's crazy! Or: The same Mr. Sallmutter, the same trade union officials who promised with leaflets of their clients before the election, Mr. Nürnberger: We are fighting for daily working hours under a bowl, Haider is not raised from 8 to 13 hours and therefore the overtime supplements are lost!, the same trade unionists are making proposals today, how the overtime supplements will get away for those who work more and are made a time balance for them! [[Abg. Nürnberger: Where did I make such a proposal? You have to show it to me!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Nürnberger! You should be held responsible by your clientele for this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can recall that Mr Sallmutter made the proposal 14 days ago to create a time budget instead of paying overtime supplements, and to extend daily working hours from 8 hours to 10 to 13 hours. I can recall that Mrs Ederer – probably still part of your party – supported the same proposal on the weekend in the daily newspaper "The Press". And I can remember that you, Mr Nürnberger, proposed a zero-son round and a real wage ban instead of presenting ideas for job creation. That's what it's all about today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] That is, you are tending to move in a direction today, Mr. Nürnberger,... [[Abg. Koppler: Listen when someone speaks!]] Mr Koppler! With your economic policy, you tend to see that man is increasingly becoming a cost factor and no longer a human social order is produced. For the socialists, man is a cost factor: American system, work twice to be able to live once. This is a philosophy that you have deeply condemned before the National Council elections. Today you're propagating her. Today you are the ones who work with this type of restriction on the back of the workers. We're going to fight it! On the other hand, we are acting massively, and that is why we are also telling you, Minister of State: We are concerned when one group after another is suddenly confronted with a loss of real wages. I'm taking a letter from the Federal Chamber of Commerce. Mr. President, Mr. Maderthaner wrote a letter to the specialized organizations and collective treaty negotiators. April 1996 – These are your coalition partners, Minister Hums! . which states that the increase in apprenticeship compensation in recent years is the cause of the fact that firms no longer want to have apprentices. [[Abg. Koppler: This is stupid!]] That's what it says: The increase in apprenticeship compensation is certainly one of the reasons why firms see fewer and less opportunities to train apprentices. – Do not turn yourself out of what you have written, Mr President! In addition, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Maderthaner are urgently calling on all collective contractual negotiators to obtain, where possible, a freezing of the compensation for apprentices at the present stage in the next few years. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is your economic policy: Disassembly of those who are the weakest in the economic cycle! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I have to ask you now, Minister: Is that really the philosophy of the coalition? Is this the philosophy of the coalition that one makes zero-son rounds, that one deletes overtime supplements, that one forbids real income remission, that one wants to freeze apprentice compensation instead of promoting a new positive economic attitude? Who will prevent you from setting new framework conditions? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: So demagogic!]] Mr President, demagogic is the one who, for example, announces something different in the "Economic Sheet" than what he is voting on. And that's you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, they announced in the "Economic Sheet" 14 days ago – I noticed this very well –: Stumbling for new framework conditions in the economy. The BÜRGES action must be extended. - She almost died in 1995. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Half, he said!]] Halved in the means. Yeah, that's how it looks! And you agree with this halving. Mr. Stumbling says: We need a capital-friendly tax system. The profits which have not been taken away must be favoured. - Well, what are you doing? They disassemble the loss performance opportunities for the domestic economy. The bit of what has still been available to design today, disassemble with your voice and speak completely differently outside. – This is demagogy, Mr President, that we want to keep you there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Populist stupid!]] That is why we are really fighting for the situation of apprentices. Of course, apprenticeship opportunities have been drastically reduced. Since 1990, the number of apprenticeships has decreased by 80 percent in Vienna alone. One has to think about it! You have the responsibility. The Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Social Affairs, has the responsibility for apprentices. Now hang on to it and say that the apprentice compensation is too high: Yes, please, it is really too high, Mr. Colleague stupid, if, for example, a dental technician in the first year of class 2 080 S grossto – gross! – receive compensation for apprentices? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Where is it?]] A dental technician. Or a beautyr in the first year of class – I got the file from your chamber –: 2 600 S grossto; a dresser: 2 900 S grossto. – And Mr. Stumvoll then announces about the newspapers: Well, they have 14 000 s or 15 000 s in the third year of teaching. Consider: If you are a Lower Austrian Member, but you live in Vienna, you are entitled to a distance allowance of 8 000 s. This is more than some apprentices have indemnification. That is the situation we cannot accept! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: They must not make the apprentices of this strategy into second-class people. You must not make the apprentices into second-class people! We call on you, Minister of State, to stop this nonsense of renouncing real wages – which is now also intended to capture the apprentices. We assume that it will be necessary to anchor the protection of the minimum wage also for the apprentices accordingly. We liberals will take an initiative for this today. And you have the opportunity to make it clear that the question of apprentices is also serious to you. Ladies and gentlemen! There is only a real chance to build up, and that is to give the young people a good training. What you're doing with the apprentices in Austria is not the future provision we're imagining. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] For 25 years now, colleague, you've been in this government. For 25 years she has been the Social Minister, the Federal Chancellor for 25 years. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edler.]] I've trained apprentices, my dear colleague, to the difference from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[==References====External links== Edler.]] Sure. We trained skilled workers. Very different from you, ladies and gentlemen! This is probably the "most interesting" that a social democrat is blamed for training apprentices, just because you yourself are not going to do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We therefore call for safeguarding the minimum wage for apprentices so that those collective contract steps that have been announced here do not happen. We therefore also demand a qualitative improvement in apprenticeship training, for example through the reform of the superlative polytechnic course. Everyone knows that this is a nonsense. Everyone knows that today the apprentices have become second-class people. But don't do anything! In his statement of government, the Federal Chancellor comes here and says: The skilled worker must finally be given the long-deserved recognition. – Well, is the skilled worker recognition that the Nürnberg-based zero son-round is considering that the Sallymutter wants to cut the overtime supplements and that it is now time to freeze the apprentice compensations and thus also to question the few 1 000 S that the future skilled worker will receive? – It really can't be! Consider positive measures! Set the framework conditions for the economy! Make You own-capital-friendly tax laws, so that the businesses will have the power of their own! Give those firms that train apprentices a tax exemption of 30 percent! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And do one thing, Minister of Social Affairs: Not only do you ensure the minimum wage of the apprentices in the collective contract activity, but you should also be willing to support an initiative to eliminate the compensation of apprentices! This happened in your time of government. [[Abg. Edler: Mr Haider, you've slept this!]] Excuse me, Mr President, that the compensation for apprentices is paid by the local authorities. I don't know who slept there. But you are one of the sleeping hats of this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This apprentice compensation is charged with 3 per cent municipal tax. [[Abg. Edler: And the promotions?]] Don't talk about the promotions, talk about the disposal! We do not want to be a people of promoters, but a people of people who, when they work, can earn something. And this also includes the apprentices. And that's where you have to pay off! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The removal of the 3 per cent municipal tax on apprentice compensation would also increase the scope for real wage development in the apprenticeship sector. Is this really necessary for you to include the compensation for apprentices who have not been taxed here? How bad must it be for this state to waive the tax on these apprentices' compensation earlier, but with the introduction of the municipal tax it must be taxed at 3 per cent of the gross amount? All this, please, would be measures to be corrected now. If you are serious about apprenticeship training, if it is serious to you with the protection of our future skilled workers on the labour market and with the opening of new opportunities for the future, then, ladies and gentlemen, today you will have to agree to our initiative to protect the minimum wage for apprentices. Otherwise, you are unbelievable.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30523	Mr Nürnberger has made a statement on an actual correction. I draw attention to the rules of business: Subject matter – Area orientation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30547	Thank you. Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After I have been mis-quoted by Mr Haider for a number of times, I must correct his statements. I was once again obliged to make proposals to remove overtime supplements for workers. – The opposite is the case. As you can read in any of my opinions, I have repeatedly rejected this because it is a purely cost reduction programme. Secondly, for the time being, I was told that I was a propagandist of a zero-son round. [[Abg. Koppler: Watch out, Haider!]] I have made it clear here in this House a few weeks ago in the context of a speech that I have never spoken a zero-son round. [[Abg. Koppler: Talk first, and then he won't be careful!]] A number of reports on the APA and similar newspaper agencies have also come to the correct. I simply pointed out that in 1993 Austrian metalworkers were willing to go further than that proposed in the Federal Republic of Germany. And you can read: I have recently made it clear to each of the nine national conferences that there is no zero-one round. I ask you, Dr. Haider: If you're quoting wrong here, prove to me where I'm propagating a zero-son round and where I've spoken the word for a removal of the overtime strike. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: For example, in the "Small Newspaper"!]] But this is your way of getting out of here and saying the untruth! I will comment on the question of apprentices in my contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30612	Another request for an actual correction is presented to me by Mr Dr Günter Stummvoll. I refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has said here that I, as the Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, who also has a residence in Vienna, would be entitled to a distance allowance of 8 000 s. It is true, on the contrary, that at the beginning of the previous legislative period I reported that, because I also have an apartment in Vienna, I do not want to take advantage of the distance allowance, and therefore I do not receive it. That was a false citation, and I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30672	The next speaker is Mrs Reitsamer. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30693	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be a good idea if the waves could slip in here again. But I've just heard: That's how he is, the Haider. - Yes, he is! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Annamirl!]] Mr Haigermoser, Helmi! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Should this be a declaration of love?]] No, for God's sake! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Haider has just stated here that we are doing everything we can to rob workers of their rights. He said something completely different yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How exactly you follow my speech!]] Please listen carefully to: On Tuesday, at a press conference, FPÖ-Obmann Jörg Haider spoke in favour of thinking as a means of overcoming the economic crisis about the sensible abandonment of social services. [[Abg. Koppler: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was before yesterday! Today is Thursday!]] For, says Haider, in addition to the economy and the public sector, workers should also make a contribution to solving the problems. [[Abg. Koppler: He is the Haider!]] In concrete terms, he called for a temporary reduction in holiday entitlements, a reduction in unemployment benefit and also a temporary retirement of the second year of leave. Hair literally: "We're not in Schlaraffenland." - That's how he is, the Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also recommend to the Austrians the reading of the book presented here in Parliament by Salzburg's designated head of state: "To the Parliament to destroy it." That's how it went, and parallels are shown, and you've worked the same way. – However, I must make the accusation that if you present your half-truths here, we will expose you too little. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I really want to turn to an objective discussion now, because I think that this F movement should not be particularly appreciated. Ladies and gentlemen! The consolidation of the budget is hard, necessary and balanced and also creates the necessary room for action to do exactly what we are accused of not doing. This consolidation package is a prerequisite for continuing positive economic development and addressing the current problems. For us Social Democrats, it was always in the foreground that the budget must be consolidated both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, that it must be balanced as far as possible socially and that consolidation must also be sustainable. The budgetary consolidation measures had to meet the following criteria: to ensure economic momentum and the quality of the economic location and not to endanger social peace. Austria's social policy, ladies and gentlemen, is by international comparison the most advanced at all, and the measures outlined below are aimed at ensuring this high standard. The measures in the care scheme are designed to increase the acceptance of this groundbreaking measure and to further ensure financial viability. In the area of unemployment insurance, the focus must be on active labour market policies. We have already decided on a package of measures to ensure the protection of older workers. The issue of emergency aid is more closely linked to the principle of insurance. The fight against abuse should ensure confidence in our social system and make people more aware of their own responsibility. In the field of the pension scheme, I would have wished for the single parents that the child father would repay the second half of the second year of the leave, for Father is the same father for me. The current regulation is to disadvantage those parents who together are willing to bear responsibility. But I would like to say something about the karenz. It was therefore overlooked that the health insurance scheme would not have been guaranteed for those women who, during their leave, deserved to be paid over the short-term limit and who were thus subject to the pension scheme for a month or more. These wouldn't have been insured. Detto would have fallen by the current new regulation in the last half of the year if no co-insurance had been given to the partner. That is why I would like to make a request to ensure that there is at least one for those women concerned in the field of health insurance. Request by Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer, Dr Gottfried Feuerstein and Comrades on the draft law in the report of the National Council Budget Committee on a 1996 Structural Adjustment Act (95 of the Supplements) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The Government template (72 of the Supplements) concerning a 1996 Structural Adjustment Act as adopted by the Budget Committee (95 of the Supplements) is amended as follows: 1. In Art. 23 Z 37 will be published in § 36 para. 6 AlVG of the expression "§ 291 a" by the expression "291 a para. 3" replaced. 2. In Art. 23 the following Z 43a is inserted after Z 43: "43a. In § 43a para. 2 becomes the term ‘§ 122 para. 2 Z 2 lit. (c) by the expression ‘§ 122 para. 2 Z 3 and 4’ is replaced by the following:’; 3rd. In Art. 23 Z 52 is published in § 79 para. 25 of the expression "§ 43a para. 1 is replaced by the term "§ 43a". 4. Art. 34 Z 58 reads: "58. In § 122 para. 2 at the end of Z 2 the point shall be replaced by a stroke point; the following Z 3 and 4 shall be added: 3. to persons who, in accordance with § 12 para. 3 lit. g AlVG is not considered to be unemployed, or those in accordance with § 26 para. 3 lit. e AlVG is not entitled to a pension allowance; 4. to persons to whom the leave allowance in accordance with § 31 para. 1 AlVG is granted until the completion of the second year of life of the child.'" 5. By Art. 34 Z 59 the following Z 59a is inserted: "59a. In § 134 para. 3 becomes the term ‘§ 122 para. 2 Z 2’ by the expression ‘§ 122 para. 2 Z 2 to 4’.' 6. In Art. 34 Z 164 is published in § 563 para. 1 Z 3 of the expression "122 para. 2 Z 2 by the expression "122 para. 2 Z 2 to 4, 134 para. 3" and the expression "BGBl. No. xxx/1996" by the term "BGBl. No. xxx/1996 and the repeal of §§ 471 f to 471 h'. 7. In Art. 34 Z 164 is not included in § 563 para. 1 Z 4 of the expression "122 para. 2 Z 3". 8. In Art. 34 Z 164 is published in § 563 para. 1 Z 4 of the term "and the repeal of §§ 308 para. 3 and 471 f to 471 h" by the expression "and the cancellation of § 308 para. 3" replaced. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to continue in my speech. In the field of pension insurance, interventions in existing pensions could be prevented. There are no abrupt changes. Personal life planning is taken into account. However, two objectives are consistently pursued: to increase the actual retirement age by means of labour market policies and to achieve greater justice in the system by taking account of contributions and insurance months. The new rules on works contracts are intended to substantially counteract the escape from labour law and social security. However, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that after a period of observation there will have to be corrections, because the arguments of individual groups seem to me to be quite informative and considerate. The budgetary consolidation measures are designed in such a way that Austria remains attractive as an economic location. However, consolidation must be seen as an overall package in which job creation and job security are of particular importance. Despite labour market forecasts and rising unemployment, we can see that the economic priority must be in employment policy. That is why it is also so important to gain economic leeway to achieve these objectives. This is in the interests of the workers, and I am convinced that this is understood by them, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore not surprising that an employment offensive was devoted to the Government Declaration. It is also due to an initiative by our Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government that employment policy in the EU now has a different, much higher priority. The problems posed by low-cost countries on our labour market can only be solved in a joint effort. It is not the adjustment of our wages down that can be the answer, but the definition of certain social and environmental standards as a condition for EU enlargement. There will have to be a rethinking of what labour market policy is about, because of course this consolidation package is more savings programme than reform programme. It will be up to us to use the years ahead for structural reforms. In the future, we will have to organize, flexibly and redistribute work differently. These changes cannot, of course, be carried out on the back of workers and not without their participation in the decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] These negotiations must be conducted at the social partners' level, ladies and gentlemen. In creating additional jobs in sectors where there is no competition from the market, the field of social services cannot be disregarded. There would be a number of possibilities, but countries would have to be included in their funding directives. Family care with proper working conditions via support associations is also not to be disregarded. Ladies and gentlemen! We will also have to take great care when implementing the package to avoid social hardships. Women's work must not be made more difficult – even if it becomes narrow on the labour market, this danger is particularly threatening for women. In international comparison, Austria is located in the lower sector of women's employment. A measure of the past, which we are particularly proud of, namely the billing of child rearing periods for the pension, is a prerequisite for a complete insurance course for women and thus for independent retirement insurance – and this must ultimately be our goal. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve this, it is important to do a lot of conscious work and constantly warn against atypical employment conditions and their consequences – I would particularly like to point out the minor employment conditions in this context. In a discussion on the work contract problems with representatives of the insurance industry, I was told that large groups have several thousand workers, but it is said that they would be happy to recruit 100 to 120 full-time workers, but they are not supposed to receive them. . I have not yet had the time to question that in the labour market service, but I must admit that I am very skeptical in this regard. It is certainly not everybody's business to sell insurance, but I cannot believe that there is no qualified person among the many job seekers. There may be an additional small opportunity for us. Ladies and gentlemen! In social policy, it is important not to shift the burden that individuals themselves can bear to the state. Social policy must be made even more efficient. Social policy must serve people and, last but not least, it is a distribution policy, in which it must bring together many different interests. I would like to thank you very much from this point of view, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the fact that I think it has succeeded in combining budgetary requirements with socially acceptable ones.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30854	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. . I draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30878	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer claimed that I would have requested a reduction in social benefits on Tuesday in a press conference and that the workers' contribution to the restructuring of the State budget should be encouraged. – That's not true. There was no statement at this press conference on this subject. I have commented on the issue of EU government campaign, I have commented on the subject of Semperit – I can quote all of this – and I have made massive criticism of the rise in the price of petrol at this press conference. I've... [[Abg. Marizzi: Do you know when you said that? In 1993! In 1993 you said that!]] Mrs Reitsamer said: on Tuesday at the press conference, and it is clear that she said the untruth in front of the House. [[Call the SPÖ: But you said that!]] I said the following – I quote –: The Austrians, therefore, have further burdens in the house through this unscrupulous policy of the government, warned Haider. At 18 billion schilling a year, the employees alone would be asked to cash out. The work offensive announced by the government did not exist at all, it was apparently only on paper, criticized Haider. The reduction in construction savings will cost another 10 000 jobs, the energy tax will cost about 8 000 jobs, because it does not at the same time contribute to the reduction of labour costs. In addition, the reduction of housing support will cost a few thousand jobs. The liberals had now drawn up a series of alternative proposals, all under the motto of "slender state, low taxes", said Haider. This is the concept to get out of the crisis. When the tax legislation was changed, Haider demanded that the profits which had not been taken away be favoured. The liberals also want to pay compensation for apprentices in order to set a clear mark here against youth unemployment. In addition, a part-time opportunity should be created in the public service, young entrepreneurs should be encouraged and tax-free for the first three years as young entrepreneurs should be granted. Also, Haider said that the nonsense of the general entrepreneurship contracts should be stopped in public procurement. That was my text at the press conference. The statement made by Mrs Reitsamer is therefore absolutely incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30937	The request made by Mrs Reitsamer and Mr Feurstein, together with Mr Feurstein, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e30962	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mrs Reitsamer has made some very remarkable observations, including from the Liberal Forum's point of view, in particular, about the flexibility of the working world and the condition that it should not be carried out on the back of the workers – in itself a matter of course, but I expressly stress it. It has also made a very interesting statement as to what is going on in the karenz money and the fathers who would be obliged to take part. However, what she says is that what we have to decide on today is nothing at all, it is partly contrary to what is happening here today. I am going to turn to the point that Mr Reitsamer, in connection with social transfer payments, will suddenly discover the right of maintenance, certainly still in detail. However, the sum – that is the link with what I have to put in here – is marked by the fact that, although I take Mrs Reitsmer to 100 percent, she is convinced that what is being presented here for decision-making is a suitable basis for both restructuring the government budget and going into the future with optimism, but she says: Already in the coming months – in July, but at the latest in January next year – it will be shown that this is unfortunately a wishful thought, because perhaps – perhaps! – the consolidation of the state budget will succeed – even in this regard there is great skepticism – but certainly not optimism and joy of life will be aroused by what is being decided here today; and indeed optimism, which also acknowledges that it is perhaps a little harder now, but that it will get better. However, this forecast cannot be deduced from the package! It is not detractable that it is now a thirst route that should be overcome in solidarity, so that it can be a new beginning, but it is – it has really been said again and again this week in this House; and I repeat it consciously – an emergency programme that will also trigger despair in the social field rather than hope. That is why it is really unpleasant and rather disturbing because we depend on people in this country to deal with optimism with these problems together and not to despair. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We find here a finding that the causes that would certainly provide occasions enough to reform in the social field have remained outside the doorstep, we are dealing only with symptoms – and that only from a point of view: How can I get money out of the social pots as quickly as possible, to contribute somewhat to the re-establishment of the budget? Since one of the no-countable novels contained in the Structural Adjustment Act will be decided upon as the ASVG, I now try to make a conscious appeal to the Minister of State and ask him: Where did the pioneer spirit and optimism of the fifties remain? In 1955, the General Social Insurance Act was created, so to speak, on a green meadow under social security law – as a centenary law, and indeed with a lot of innovation – and in 40 years we have just changed it to death, it has turned into a law that even knowledgeable people can hardly understand, because novelles have been piled on novels, so that even social insurance law experts – only the length of this word should make us robust – are no longer able to explain to a seeker what his rights are; in the duties it is sometimes easier. Why don't we go back to the start together, so to speak, and think about us – in the case of upright legal situation; I don't want to be misunderstood there –: What do we want to achieve together with our social security law, with our social rights, with our carnation schemes? so that we can jointly define what would be required by law at all, and that we can also find out how we can switch from the present system to a new one? Then perhaps the mutual abuses, in which some of them are actually said grossly against the media, might also cease, but in some cases we are really consciously misunderstood each other. If Liberals are repeatedly accused of being accused of having been accused of being flexibilised by the working world, so that we can better exploit the employees, then this is a conscious misunderstanding. That is why I have been so pleased to follow the remarks made by Mrs Reitsamer, in which she has, in principle, repeated what my colleague Helmut Peter has said for months and years, only: The second part, namely that we do not want to do this on the back of the servants, is always left out when he is quoted. However, I do not think we will come to a new social contract if we always shorten our statements in such a way that, at the end, only opposites are left instead of the common one. I therefore believe that an item on the agenda, such as today's social part of the Structural Adjustment Act, should be an opportunity not only to deal with the details – I am also referring to some particularly unpleasant details – but also to a government that believes that because it has a two-thirds majority, it can be self-conscious and overconfident to remember: This overconfidence will not go well, because what is being presented here is not innovative, is not reformatory, is simply an emergency programme! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also know with my colleague, Mühlbachler, whom I can quote here: "Of course, it cannot be expected that in this short period of time the story has passed without error." – So this description was still very friendly, because the flawlessness that he here believes is impossible is the operational flawlessness in the very accelerated parliamentary treatment – in order to say this carefully; very accelerated, almost pro-formatory. But the problem was: It was already what came to Parliament, just a blank. That was not a written law, not even a poorly formulated law – it was a bad law, and it was not formulated. That is why we mainly had so many amendments from the government parties – even now again – because these are, so to speak, editorial improvements that have taken place in the normal legislative process before matter enters the House, namely by the people who are developing the draft. [[The speaker gives a glass of water.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where's the applause?]] This is not something you have to rejoice at. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: If you like it, you praise it!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr President, I should like to thank They are trying to do something here, which is actually, even if one knows one's opinion with me, there's no reason at all to take applause. Of course, you can praise what I have said here – you're right – but there's actually no reason to praise it at all. You can be happy as an opposition if you can prove to the government what it has not done, but if you are worried about the Republic at the same time, the real joy remains. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We were concerned to present our attacks in such a way that they could at the same time cause some gross mistake to remain, for fear of our criticism – this is only an indirect possibility, but at least it should not be underestimated. Secondly, it is simply necessary for people to raise their voices here, who not only say yes and Amen to what has been decided in a coalition agreement. This is particularly important. It is quite essential to this Parliament that we are able to say indisputably that we are those who do not say yes and agree. – Of course, this applies to the entire opposition, which I do not make a monopoly of the Liberal Forum. We understand that this is unpleasant to you, but you will have to endure it. You will vote anyway as you have previously announced. In this context, I can quote Mr Fischer: ==References====External links== In April, the Members of Parliament will decide on the budget proposals as they are essentially unchanged. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Just not!]] This shows that he has a high analytical view of things and that he knows what things are. This does not necessarily mean that he is happy about it, but why should he put his head in the sand and not admit how it really is? Some people do not admit it, for example, Mr Khol, who thinks you should only talk if you were there. Today he's not there – that's very pleasant for me; he won't be able to talk about what I'm saying today, according to his own philosophy, because he's just the opinion, you can only talk with him if you... [[Abg. Arbitrators: There were no historical professors according to the theory!]] That's right. I'm thanking my colleague Schieder. In addition, this is a very interesting access to history. And if one can rely solely on living witnesses, then we will soon have survived – otherwise also the time, which sometimes still employs us in this house, because the last living witnesses will soon have died. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Today, Mr Khol is not a contemporary witness, which may also be an indication of his interest in social problems. [[Abg. Kiss: No, no! Please don't make any submissions!]] "Maybe" I said. Perhaps he has an important other duty to fulfil, and perhaps he cannot be at the same time anywhere by the accumulation of the functions he has to perform – also possible. [[Further calls of the Abg. Kiss.]] I did not address this question: Mr Khol found it worth it yesterday to accuse my colleague, Mr Firlinger, of being silent because he was not physically present at a certain meeting. – It will keep him, I will remember it again and again, and therefore I will mention it again and again. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On and on, the issue is too serious to remain with these partial aspects. So far, in the previous statements made today, an area has only been sounded very gently: unemployment. I do not think it is a coincidence that Mr Reitsamer, too, has been relatively silent about this because, of course, as an experienced social politician, she knows far too well that what is on the table here and will be decided by the government parties, will actually be extremely unemployed; she knows that. It fully appreciates the negative effects of the unilateral energy levy, as well as the Wifo study. It is also aware of the negative effects of the reduction in demand by reducing low incomes; that this is not work-promoting, it knows as well as anyone who is moving in this field. But where are the counter-controlling alternative measures? The business start-ups with the introduction of a minimum-cost for founders of 50 000 S per year? Or perhaps a revitalized innovation wave with simultaneous non-reform in the field of science and research? Where are these approaches? - We don't see her. Mr Reitsamer dealt with questions in the field of karenz: perhaps the fathers should be used more closely in the redesign of the budget in connection with the second year of karenz; more evenly, not only in the KUZUG and/or vice versa. It has actually entered a field in which it would have met with consistent proposals from the Liberal Forum – if it had dealt with it – namely a complete redesign of the transfers, which will focus on providing real and on the performance of the entire economy. Not pseudo over the casting can, for everyone a thousand, even for those who do not need it, but actual, real, existential transfers. These include, of course, the fathers, for example, questions about karenz and children, because this is a question of double responsibility for the conflict of duties, which is ultimately the raising of children. One cannot be present at the same time with a grandchild who might otherwise jump out of the window and at the workplace. There you have to do time-sharing, there you have to have babysitting facilities at your disposal, and there you have to be financially able to also afford what you would like to organize yourself. The child has to be put at the centre, and so, by chance, however, Mrs Reitsamer - probably only out of the need to find someone who should pay - is not aware, but I am happy to open the door to her, to our thoughts that the law in force should be much more focused, because it is a matter of personal responsibility. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But so that the applicable private law does not become cynical, does not make people ridicule, so to speak, by saying: You're responsible yourself, so take care of it, pay all this! – and this may be addressed to people who cannot, because their earnings are not sufficient, or because for other reasons they may not be able at all to acquire a earnings, or because they are in some stage of training – so society is obliged to stand by exactly there and then and that in a simple and non-administrative form – but not those who are also under obligation to abandon. It's just to discuss that there would be a consensus about it. That is why we are sometimes sad to see a proposal being put on the table, which would have had a savings potential of 7 billion schilling, but which is not discussed – not even in the face of empty cash. Not even then you sit down at a table. Apparently, there is either everything remaining in the time innovative draft of the fifties – or out of fear, it could have made an opposition party an innovative proposal that may become popular over time. From bread neid, so to speak, in political competition, this is not discussed – and I am sorry. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The government has taken action – at least it has told us, and by "saying" I mean the government statement of Mr. Federal Chancellor, there it has almost declared, and also in the Coalition Convention such passages, passages that come from the text blocks of the convenience of Sunday speeches – the government has therefore undertaken to improve the reliability of the transfers. We have tried with our employees to find out from these convoluts: Where is this commitment delivered? In the case of family allowances, a reduction was made according to the lawn mower method. Instead of where the family allowance really does not need to be suspended or otherwise designed, there is exactly the same hundreds away as where this hundreds are bitterly needed, because it means a few loaves of bread and one, two, three, four, five bottles of milk that can no longer be bought. So in the case of family allowances, this commitment is not fulfilled. In the care allowance? - Not either. On the contrary: A non-valorization and rest of the care allowance from the first day in the hospital, with the effect that no transitions are possible in people who have taken care of themselves in the family sector and a member of the family is partly dependent on the fact that the care allowance is running relatively continuously. One has not at all thought that there might have to be two deadlines: on the one hand, a better transitional period for the quite plausible rest – if someone is in hospital at 100 percent, then of course his care effort is really covered there – and on the other hand, a certain minimum period of time. But this was, of course, a money acquisition action, and so one has not thought of such "littleness" that individual victims are then defenseless and cannot react to it. What about the safety of pensions? – A little bit, I say, because one has decided to look at the low pensions slightly different from the higher ones. But where there are insurance elements in particular, this is not exactly the happiest point of reference – although I have to admit that we have already been in the main committee twice in succession on the occasion of the establishment of the amount of valorization, but because we have come to the conclusion that the maintenance of philosophy, our pension system in the social field, will not be a real insurance system, for otherwise, we cannot afford to pay for people who have done nothing or just a few months of insurance in the course of their life. However, we pay them something, although from the Liberal Forum's point of view, in a disgraceful bureaucratic way and not enough. But this is an element of another overall reform, namely the overall reform of pensions, which, of course, also has to take up the component of own responsibility to the full by asking: What does society have to guarantee? – Society has the good assurance of existence and a contribution to guarantee that someone has paid for many years in this system. This gives a certain range of minimum and maximum social pensions – but please do not provide pensions for section heads who pay the social contract, for example for employees of the Austrian National Bank – at the expense of the social contract. It can be organized there no matter how you want it – as long as the community is not burdened. It should not be to the detriment of one’s own ability to organize one’s own activities, even in the operational context, and not only as a single fighter in the sense of a social-darwinism of 19th century. ==References== We Liberals also think in solidarity sizes, but solidarity does not necessarily mean subjection to the state, but that means also organizing solidarity together – without waiting for the state. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the union: How would a trade union have developed if this philosophy had not been included in the fact that one was not waiting for the state to set up a workers' chamber, but that one itself was organized as a union, just as the free associations of entrepreneurs had been? – This is exactly the liberal approach. Some of this has proved to be true, even though perhaps today some have died in the forms and loss of imagination; but that does not speak against the principle. This only indicates that perhaps innovation has lost its power. And why maybe she's gone? – Because there is hardly any less democratically organized event in the internal structure like the ÖGB, who wants only from one level to the next level. This may have to be considered once, but I am not the head teacher of the ÖGB, although I am a member; but I have never participated in a election – in elections in the enterprises, that is, but not in the organization. But there I pay, and that's why all this irritates me. One should think about it, then perhaps more innovation would occur. Cut down, that removes innovations. By the way, this is one of the problems of the entire great coalition, which is based only more on those rods that have proved to be successful for 50 years, but: Having proved to be successful for 50 years is a merit, but not necessarily a reference to high innovation, because after a time these devices reproduce themselves, so to speak, they run dead. One important aspect: How does the social chapter keep with the budgetary truth? So the figures, we hope, are in the sense that they have really been defined as if they were to be defined. I don't mean that. These Primitival Attacks will not have been expected by me either, that I say that it is all wrong. I am concerned that the prognosis underlying this is not true, and therefore, if the assumptions do not vote, the results that have been written in the budget do not vote. But that is something else, that has nothing to do with budgetary truth in the narrower sense, that would, as it were, be another lack of qualification, namely misevaluation; but I do not mean that now. There's the position: AMS payments to the compensation funds of pension insurance institutions. That's where you think: aha. I had the opportunity in the Committee to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. His answer was not implausible, though not satisfactory to me. These 4.9 billion schillings are a response from the AMS to the fact that the pension side has a labour market-relieving effect. I thought, well, maybe you won't want to push the early retirements back like that. I just thought it was a pity to take 4.9 billion away, because there is little resources available for active labour market policies. But see: The Federal Government will be liable for this from 1997 onwards if the AMS cannot pay for it. That's what I thought: fair. The AMS should not be ruined, well. The covenant is liable. Then you look at the 1997 budget, and what do you suddenly see? – A payment of the federal government to the AMS of 4.7 billion schilling; Balance 0,2. The AMS is therefore required by law to pay 4.9 billion schilling to the compensation funds of pension insurance institutions – I have already provided the justification – and the federal government pays to the AMS 4.7 billion schilling. What does this look like? - Everyone thinks: Aha, very interesting, the subsidies from the Federal Government for Pensions have fallen because it has succeeded in getting 4.9 billion schilling from the AMS. That's where they say that's great, a success. The AMS gets 4.7 billion from the budget. You think: Great, the federal government spends 4.7 billion additional on labour market management in the sense of offensives on the labour market. – In reality, the pure extension of the balance sheet is. On the one hand, the AMS receives 4.7 billion more schilling, on the other hand it transfers 4.9 billion schilling to the pensions. Appearance: less federal subsidies to pensions, more money for the AMS, but in reality the balance is almost zero. This is not budgetary truth, as we understand from the Liberal Forum. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I have mentioned earlier that I am unsure of whether the budget assumptions are all right. An example – after questioning – has shown that the FLAF forecast had an error deviation of well over 2 billion schilling in the assessment of the balance development. Originally, one had assumed a deficit of 2.5 billion schilling – then one insisted that it was not quite right. A colleague from FPÖ has already pointed out that I do not want to use any copyright in this regard. Thus, a deviation was found in the estimate of the results by 1 000 percent. – Can happen already, is also a difficult area, the area of family transfers. Who knows better than I do? I've been very concerned about this. But in this way one no longer has the certainty that such scatters of 2.3 billion schilling – which is not a small amount at all – have not occurred there or elsewhere, without noticing that. This error has been noted, but how would you estimate here in this House the likelihood that, if you have noticed such a mistake, there may be one, two, three, four or ten more, which you have not noticed in all other areas, not exclusively in the field of effect of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs? The budget is extensive, but only ten such misestimations mean a range of 23 billion schilling. This would be wonderfully plausible in this Van der Bell’s 30 billion schilling deviation scenario, for example. I am afraid that the figures on economic growth will develop differently from the budget - it is even worse. As my speaking time is drawing to a close, another aspect of credibility – I have promised it, and I keep it –: As long as the work contracts continue to exclude the speakers from adult education facilities – they were already before this structural adjustment law – I think the whole thing is unbelievable. Now this argument sinks just against the background of the "Kronen-Zeitung" colporteurs. Since the "Kronen-Zeitung" colporteurs are excluded from these regulations, which can be very differentiated – I lack the time to carry out it more precisely – this social security approach for the works contracts lacks any credibility! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] There is no more classic case of circumvention of employment rights, as the colporteurs of the media print do in this case. There's no more classic case! One would almost have to write it in a textbook. That's all you've got to do! We know why – and we are ashamed of the fact that Immune, independent Members of this House, who are set up with a free mandate – are: [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] Because of a perhaps a little more friendly press, but a heavy-duty press – I already admit that – make such a kneefall! I'll tell you: They're making a serious mistake. If you show yourself today in such cases, you'll be back tomorrow. It will not be thanks to the answer, but hohn, and precisely from these newspapers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A fair deal with the media is a fair deal with each other. There can be controversy there, and it can also be unpleasant. As a politician, one can be highly criticized by the media, and vice versa, one can say very pointedly. But when you crawl into crosses, you've lost. At this point the credibility is so destroyed that I am almost ashamed of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31165	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already made it clear that at present the situation on the labour market is the main issue with which the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also we here in the National Council, have to deal. It is an important primary concern for us to improve the employment situation in our country in a sustainable way and to secure jobs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For this reason, in 1996 the employment policy measures of the Ministry of Social Affairs – including the funds of the EU's Social Fund – were not available for 5 billion, but 6.5 to 6.6 billion schilling – a third more than in 1995 in order to give impetus to this. If Dr. Haider criticizes this, I'm sorry. – We stand by this active labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are in favour of the creation of investment incentives: That is why we decided this week that the investment exemption is 30 years old. April 1996, i.e. in the coming week, in ten days, will be increased from 9 percent to 12 percent, in order to create impulses for more investment by the economy. FPÖ, Greens and Liberals have rejected this in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen. This was also rejected last Tuesday. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's a embarrass! That's really incredible!]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] The liberals have rejected this. [[Abg. May. Peter: But we don’t!]] - Excuse me, I'll take it back. May. Peter! I'll take it back. The Liberal Forum was for this purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're talking like that!]] Investment exemption, Dr. Haider. Third point: We are in favour, ladies and gentlemen, of providing additional funds for unemployment insurance as a result of the forecasts of the Institute for Economic Research. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And you are shortening the apprentice compensation! A "fine" thing!]] We will make more money available for unemployment insurance. This has been decided in the Committee on Budgets. Additional funds have been made available so that no one needs to be afraid of being unemployed in 1996 or 1997. This is also an active measure that we have taken into account, ladies and gentlemen, these problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, Minister of Finance Climate, Minister of Social Affairs, has reported to the public several times, because the problem of job security is an important concern for them, and this is criticised here, as it happened earlier today, I feel this is an unheard of. They all show their concern to solve their commitment, their dedication, the employment problem, and then this is criticized by Dr. Haider. I strongly reject that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, the means of housing development will be extended in the years 1996 and 1997. In 1996 there are also 3 to 4 billion Schilling available for housing development; in 1997 there are a total of 30 billion Schilling. This is much more than in 1995, it is an additional impulse. We have done this because we know that important impulses must be put in the housing sector. We have also introduced a more just distribution key for these housing funds. I believe that this is a very important boost in the housing sector. These are measures that we have put in place, because we have just recognised the problem, because we basically agree with what the Institutes of Economic Research and what previous studies have told us: In this area, action is necessary, and we have to take care of it – and we are doing so in a very sustainable way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say quite clearly: We are in favour of a change in social policy. We do not, however, come here for what Mr Kier said, namely for a new beginning in social policy. In principle, I disagree with Dr. Kier and with what was said here earlier. We need a constant, evolutionary change in social policy. We are facing a renewal of our social policy today. I say that quite clearly. There are many changes that are sometimes not pleasant but necessary to maintain our system. When the Liberal Forum criticised the fact that the care money was paid on 1st October, it was the first time that it had been given to it. I would like to say quite clearly: Where are the proposals of the Liberal Forum which have been submitted to us on the subject of taxation of transfers? [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Consider Once again, what would happen if we included transfers into the income and wage tax system! I believe that this measure, which we have put forward here because of the budgetary situation, is necessary. A tax on transfers in this form, as proposed here, is basically rejected by us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore make it clear that we cannot always satisfy changed needs and desires that arise there and there simply by adding social benefits, without at the same time considering where and what benefits are still necessary, which benefits have to be adapted to today's situation. There are no promises and no speeches that only promote a sense of claim, which give rise to new desires and new ideas, but do not solve the problems and do not guarantee the security of our social system. I say quite clearly: What was said before the National Council elections and there to spread the opinion that nothing would change was unfair to the Austrians. It is unfair if they are not told clearly what changes are necessary to ensure that our social system is safeguarded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I regret that some politicians were not clearly and clearly informed before the National Council elections and that things were not clearly and clearly shown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] However, Mrs Mertel, I welcome the fact that the two government parties have now jointly adopted measures that pursue three objectives. And we are concerned about these three objectives if we are now going to adopt this structural adjustment law in the social field. It is about ensuring the financing of our social system. We'll secure them now, for a long time. However, it is also a contribution to the consolidation of the State budget. The question is that we do not intervene in our social system which endangers the confidence of the population. We have therefore adopted transitional provisions, which are partly very long-term. We are criticised by some that we had provided for long-term transitional provisions, which, in part, only functioned in 1998, partly in 1999. They are necessary to ensure that confidence in our social system, in our pension system, ladies and gentlemen. This is a very important issue that we have implemented in the framework of this consolidation programme. Where do we put? Let me summarize this briefly. First point: The pension area is not about existing pensions. But it's about the retirement age. We have put in place the following measures: On the one hand, we have provided for the intensification of the requirements for early retirement. This is a very important point that we have proposed and will decide. Second point: Linking the increase amounts to the retirement age – a very important point. It is a difference whether someone goes into retirement very early or only later if someone reaches the legal retirement age of 60 for women and 65 for men, whether he has the full insurance years, namely 45, or not. This is thus more emphasized in the new provisions on social security law than before. There is also a change in that – that is right – when school and study periods are no longer taken into account in the justification of retirement. If you want to be counted, you have to buy these insurance periods, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also briefly explain the three main points in the area of unemployment insurance. I do not understand that the opposition is fighting what we are changing here. We want to make it clear that the person receiving unemployment benefit must be available on the labour market. I do not understand that some people here say that this provision is wrong. If a person wants to obtain unemployment benefit, he must be available for the labour market. This is the first point – very important! Second point: We want to prevent the undeclared work of the unemployed. Hard measures are planned – I admit – for both sides: for the recipient of unemployment benefits and for the employer. This is rejected by the opposition parties. But we need this to create justice in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen. There are clear definitions of the loss of unemployment benefit, for example, in the case of self-promulgation. These are measures necessary to maintain and secure our system. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about a turning point in social policy – and we are doing so; a change in social policy is necessary – we must not and will not ask the question of the right, of the need of our social state. We need social security. But social needs are different in 1970, in 1980 or in 1996. There is no uniform system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We secure the major risks of life with our social system, which are there: Age, disease, accident, disability, unemployment. These risks of the individual are covered by our social system. But it remains equally important for us for the family, for those who are in need – indebted or indebted – as for those who are in need. Today's concern is mainly with the labour market. And I believe that we have already made the essential decisions with this structural adjustment law on the basis of the second reading decision-making in the last few days. We will, however, further develop and improve them today. We want to secure and maintain such a social system in Austria. This is what we are doing with our actions, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31342	Member Dr. Kier has reported an actual correction. I give him the floor and refer to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31381	Mr President, I should like to thank Even if you are ashamed, that does not mean that you stop talking. – But I now turn to the actual correction. Mr Feurstein has shown here that this is what I am saying and, at the same time, he has made an incorrect claim. He has proved that he does not read our papers by claiming that we have presented a model for the taxation of family transfers. This is really clear that he has not read our proposal, because the very opposite is the case. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But this is new to me!]] We have presented a model which provides that family transfers are completely removed from tax law. That's the exact opposite of what you accused me of. Mr Feurstein! I would ask you to take note of this. They cannot overcome this because it has been documented in writing and has also been explained several times in the media. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: I will show you a quote from earlier speeches!]] – I also do not quote the dolphin when I describe the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31439	Deputies! That would no longer be part of the actual correction. The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31466	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Minister! It is certainly not easy to be Social Ministers in these days or years, where it is obviously no longer for the government parties to function socially in this country, but therefore – and this is also the stated aim of the Coalition Convention – to prevent social abuse in order to be able to obtain social benefits in this country at all. This is a contradiction in itself, but that is your matter, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. My problem with what you are proposing for decision-making here and today is a very serious problem, namely that you have crossed borders with that, limits which I assume you do not know at all that you have crossed them. And these cross-border crossings will have a devastating and fatal impact on the social future in this country over the next few years. Today, in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – so to speak, in the continuation of this social-political debate, which was opened with the social-abuse legislation – the Chamber’s head Nettig is quoted: He only calls for one more year of leave, no further pay in the case of short-term diseases – and much more. If this is said, I hope you will know that what you have proposed here in Parliament, in terms of prospects for social policy in this country, has been broken. They have put social abuse prevention into space in various areas – in fact as the most important moment of social legislation. You, Mr. Minister, must be accused in this context if you are to have a district governor from 4th century BC. District, like Mr Lengheimer, famous in the media that he is the one who has developed a project for the long-term unemployed, which can be an example for Austria – that is, about his diction – which looks like he is using long-term unemployed to collect dog food, that it was you who, with the debate on compulsory work for the long-term unemployed, brought Mr Lengheimer and others to these ideas. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the problem I have with your legislation. It is not only a question of dispersing any dimension from the volume, but also of breaking the dimensions and crossing the borders in some content and important social policy content. It is a paradigm change in this country in progress. It is no longer about social policy design. It is only to manage the present in a way and to achieve through social abuse legislation – already the word is a monstrum – that if it cannot already be preserved, it is not possible to do so, it cannot be reduced so seriously. This is the legitimacy of this anti-abuse legislation. You have done this most clearly, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, on the question of vacation leave. The karenz vacation, which you raised a few years ago – and that is not a lot of years ago – has actually begun to be reduced to two years in the moment you have increased it to two years, not when you limit it to two years, but in individual measures. Firstly, it was only a question of preventing abuse, of excessive stress on leave. These were the first measures. The second steps have been taken with the savings package 1, measures which are only starting to take in these days. The first corrections to this bad legislation have already been made in this structural adjustment law. And now, with the new Structural Adjustment Act, you have taken a step towards the withdrawal of laws that you sold only a few years ago to Austrians as great social policy progress. You obviously did not know what you were doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, just a few years ago, three or four years ago. You can't save this accusation either. We need to look at the structural adjustment law. The quality of this law was equally clear by what Mr Reitsmer said at the beginning of her speech, namely an amendment, an amendment whose content is to correct straight away what you decided in the Committee, because it would have contained inconceivable deterioration. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the consequence of your kind of legislation that you are currently running, that you decide things you don't know what they mean. That is the accusation you cannot be spared, and this accusation is justified. You decide in the committees with fairly rigidity, which you then have to say in the plenary session of the National Council: That was a mistake. If we had done this or decided, then terrible thing would have happened. I believe that the social parts of this law still contain many such errors, but it is not only about the errors, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, but also about what you intend, Mr Feurstein! That's what it's all about. They not only intend to prevent social abuse, they also intend what the English call "social punishment", social punishment. And that is the terrifying and bad thing about this legislation, which contains detailed provisions which are very clearly aimed at it. A few years ago, Mr Feurstein, you said – I can quote it to you – that: In particular, women who usually raise children and take care of those in need of help should be provided even more securely. That is what you said in 1993, Mr Feurstein. The result of your legislation looks different, it does exactly the opposite: Women, who are single women, are punished under certain conditions for their single education. Women are punished for going to Karenz. These are the terrifying results of your legislation, and I assume that this is the intention. But I can prove it to you. If you only grant a woman reduced leave because her husband is in custody, then the "social punishment" is a social punishment. For the man's being in prison, she gets a reduced karenz vacation. This is a legislation that only you could intend to do in your evilness, and I would also like to put it before you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Feurstein! They also say that it is advisable to introduce availability as a new criterion in the unemployment insurance law. Mr Feurstein! I suppose you know what you mean. I assume that you know that this will exclude women who have education obligations from the provision of unemployment benefit and that they are excluded because they have educational obligations. That's evil, that's social punishment, Mr. Feurstein. This has nothing more to do with social legislation. But you see this as pointing, and that's the accusation I'm making you. If the rate of pocket money is halved for caregivers in homes, although it is already low, extremely low, then the "social punishment" is. This is a punishment for certain groups for the fact that they are different that they have to live in certain living conditions, in certain risk situations – but nothing else can be described. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if you reduce emergency aid under the Unemployment Insurance Act because someone has not worked for so long, but already fulfils the requirements for the provision of emergency aid, so if you reduce it because he has worked only a few years and has not been employed for 20 or 30 years, because he is young, this is a punishment for the biographical fact that someone has become unemployed in a young age. They punish people by paying them a lower unemployment benefit or a lower emergency aid. This is "social punishment", and you must make this accusation happen that you want to punish certain groups for being different from other groups. You must suspend this accusation because it is part of this legislation that you operate. There would be much more to say about the "social punishment". One is punished for the fact that one is not like the others. They have also reduced the term of office to three years, thus excluding quite certain groups, such as women who go on long-term training leave, persons who take longer training courses from the provision of unemployment benefit. You know Mr Küberl's letter from the Caritas, which asks you to reverse it, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You don't take that back, I suppose. I have not yet seen any amendment on your part. This is a very evil legislation that you operate in individual cases, which – not yet visible – punishes quite certain groups. But there would be a lot more to say about this. There is a kind of legislation here, driven forward by you, in which you are not yet aware of where it is going. I can assure you that she's going in the wrong direction. This legislation contains malice which has not yet been recognized in its dimension, because the people who will be concerned are not yet affected by it. It is only after this law enters into force that these groups of persons will be forced to give birth. It will then break out the big shoulder toe again, and perhaps then we will have 150 or 200 amendments to the next Structural Adjustment Act instead of 98 amendments, and some of them will deal with repairing the worst evils of this law, but that will be all. There is no concept behind your social policy legislation – except what I have already said to you: Preventing social abuse and social penalties. This is the concept you are currently representing in relation to certain groups. Mr Feurstein! After all, they have taken a great deal of care of the single women. In fact, the following sentence has been inserted in a debate: I support the fact that these groups are being particularly helped. I cannot spare you the accusation that you were obviously unable and willing to carry out and achieve what you promised, precisely in these groups. You do the opposite! And it is an undisputed part of the public debate on social legislation that women – especially single women – are particularly affected. I now come to a point which is not irrelevant in the context of this legislation: This is the legibility, the transparency of this legislation. I have already mentioned the 98 amendments to the law. And in view of this, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, you are saying that in this legislative period we want to launch the great project of redrafting laws and rebalancing our laws! So you are beginning this great project of re-dimension of the flood of law, the persuasion of the laws by presenting this convoluted law, consisting of 98 partial amendments. Is that the beginning of this reform project you are planning? Ladies and gentlemen! I've told you several times: In Austria, we have a general social security law, which has had 52 official innovations since 1955. – Minister! You know that. In total, it is more than 110 if you calculate the uncounted. In Switzerland, there is a similar law, the old age and survivors' care, which, although not the same area, I admit, but similar areas. This has been in place since the 1930s, and this has been innovative over the years for the tenth time. I am an attentive reader of Swiss daily newspapers, and I can tell you: This innovation, the tenth AHV reform, has been thoroughly discussed and debated in the public for two to three years in Switzerland, in the newspapers day after day. Therefore, the law also sits, the law holds for several years, and the public knows what it has to do with. But the problem we have here is not only that the public does not know what it is dealing with, but that we parliamentarians also do not know, otherwise no amendments would have to be tabled. First of all, it is decided in a committee that we are making this change, and here in plenary we are going to admit that: Unfortunately, we have to correct what we have decided in committee, otherwise there would be a disaster. This is the state of Austrian legislation. You and all of us – I don't really care – don't know what's going to be decided here. Only: I draw the consequence from it and do not decide not to participate in this circus, but to which you are subordinated for a supposedly higher interest, namely the reorganisation of the budget. I tell you the following – and there is also a lot of public debates: The conservatives have managed to ruin the social state in the context of a budget reorganisation, but not to reduce the state rate. They have not achieved this in all the countries in which the Conservatives have launched social policy – whether it be the US or the UK or other countries. They have achieved ruining the social state, but the state rate, the expenditure ratio in Great Britain, has not fallen. That is the consequence of your policy, Mr. Feurstein! I can't spare this accusation either to the Social Democrats who carry everything, just because it seems to be in the interest of the country. However, you will not achieve one thing: in fact, you will succeed in the reorganisation of the budget, but you will thoroughly ruin social policy in this country, with an entirely unknown perspective. I will come back to the point of legibility. I read a paragraph to you now, and you can then guess which law he is from. The following section 563 is added after section 562: "§ 563. (1) Entry into force: 1. retroactively with 1. January 1996 § 80, as amended by Art. 34 Z 44 as well as §§ 80a para. 5, 80b and 447g para. 3 and Para. 8, in each case in the version of the Federal Law BGBl. No. xxx/1996; 2. with 1. April 1996 § 31 para. 5 Z 27 to 30 as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. No. xxx/1996; 3. with 1. ==References====External links== 2, 26 para. 1 Z 5 lit. f, 29 para. 3, 30 para. 1, 49 para. 3 Z 7, 122 para. 2 Z 2 and 447d as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. No. xxx/1996; 4. with 1. Section 3 para. 3, 4 para. 3 Z 12 and para. 4, 5 para. 1 Z 2, 5a, 10 para. 2, 10a, 12 para. 1, 33 para. 3, 35, 36 para. 3, 42 para. 4, 44 para. 1 C 1 and para. 6 lit. b, 44a, 45 para. 3, 49 para. 1, 51 para. 1, 2 and 5, 51a para. 3, 51b para. 3, 52 para. 2, 53 para. 3 lit. b, 55, 58 para. 3 to 7, 59 para. 3, 64 para. 2, 66, 86 para. 3 Z 2, 100 para. 1 lit. c, 122 para. 2 Z 3" – and so on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I just want to show you, ladies and gentlemen, the "quality" of your legislation. They do not seriously believe that anyone here can still understand these connections. I will then give this to the staff of the Stenograph service, because they cannot do so at the best of their will. - No one can understand that! I can assure you: It is possible at any time – I would say once – to change decisive parts of our constitution on such Annexes, without anyone noticing in the house. And that is the state of legislation in this House: It is no longer possible to review on the basis of such legislation what is actually being changed, which is actually a matter of law, and that is an impossible condition! You'll have to ask yourself what unworthy game you're playing! And with that I am at the unworthy game that Mr Kier has already mentioned. I think it is simply a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, and of Parliament's puppies, of the Committee on Budgets on Social Affairs, that you actually dare to enforce an amendment, an exception, a "Lex Mediaprint" concerning the works contracts, without mentioning only a syllable in the Committee. That's really scandalous! You have to imagine that! I should like to remind you that I have referred to it, and I have blamed the Minister for the fact that this legislation in working contracts with the exceptions that have already existed at this time is not good because there are too many exceptions, and I do not want other groups to be excluded. I knew, like everyone else in this committee, that these committee members received a letter from Mr Dienand at an early stage, and that is why I discussed it. - No one answered that. You've all pulled your heads in and thought that's not what interests us. Perhaps at this point you have not yet known that you want to and will decide on this the next day in the Committee. You may not have known that at all – I take it in your favor that you do not know what you decide the next day. But that's the best thing you can imagine: that on Tuesday you don't know what you decide on Wednesday, that's like a thunderstorm in the night is coming over you. That's the best thing you could say. The worst thing that could be said is that you have been very conscious of the fact that you simply did not want this to be discussed in the Committee, because it is actually the case, as honourable Members Kier said, that: When it comes to the need to make a work contract arrangement, colporteurs stand in a paradigmical position for workers who actually work in a similar way! This was the tenor of the whole judicial debate on this chapter, in which the union also took part for colporteurs. And now no one says anything about the union, of the trade unionists here in plenary. Mr. Digand approached the parties – the government and opposition parties – and said: If you do, you get trouble with me, then there may be conflicts with the media print or with the "Kronen Zeitung"! – And already, without debate about it, a syllable is lost over it. That is scandalous, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I know enough of you who tell me behind my hand: Yes, you of the opposition parties are right that this should not have happened, that is actually impossible what is happening here. But you will still vote differently. Of course! There's nothing you can do! This is political discipline, and what else do I know – and of course also the fear of the media print or of the whipping of the chairmen of the political groups, but that must be the case. However, the fact that a very crucial principle of trust has been violated for the work in the committees that this work of law on works contracts was actually destroyed in the ground and ground that you can no longer keep this act of law – of course it will not stand a case before a court – is not interested in you at the moment. You can now live one, two years – perhaps a little longer – with this work contract scheme until it is then successfully scrapped off by the Constitutional Court, and then you will decide on a new repair, then we will have a new law, new legal provisions regarding the works contracts. If this is your way of solving the social problems in this country, if it is your way of solving the social policy problems on call by Mr Digand, then this is your matter, but then must You too – you too, Mr. Madethaner! – let the accusation be made that you do not contribute to the decisive problem of the contract of work, which I know is that the economy has its problems too. They exclude those groups that actually deserve the least, and the groups that have the biggest problems with this scheme remain inside. – This is your way of making laws in this context. This shows your inability and the loss of problem-solving capacity, which you have already achieved to an extent that is frightening. I would like to address one more point because it is important to me and because I think it has so far been completely inadequately addressed: It concerns employment and the labour market situation. Mr Feurstein does not find anything to go out here and say. We do everything for the labour market, it's great what the government is doing, we're raising the funds; no unemployed person needs to be afraid. . So I do not want to be unemployed at the moment, especially in these perspectives on unemployment. . I know that the number of 300,000 unemployed we have achieved this year will continue to rise, I know that the government is doing everything possible to reduce unemployment benefit and will continue to work successfully next year to reduce it, and I know that the government has no ideas in terms of labour market policy, but also no new ideas, except old shopkeepers. I do not want to be an unemployed person in this Republic at the moment, if one knows that as a long-term unemployed person in that country, one has no chance of finding employment, if one knows that as a difficult mediator, only one can be found at the employment office, namely the determination to be urged, to be sent into certain jobs which do not actually offer a perspective. These are then the dog-runners and similar jobs offered to the people – from the point of view, it is doing non-profit work. This is the perspective you are currently offering to the unemployed in this country. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I would like to say the following about the situation, because it is much more serious and dramatic than we can present it here. I do not wish to pursue a scandalous policy either, but I can quote a quote from Mr Klima of 16. March 1996: Worst-case scenario – which we will not achieve, said Mr Klima at the time, is that in 1996 we would achieve an unemployment of 6.8 and in 1997 an unemployment of 7 percent. – This worst-case scenario called Mr. Klima on 16 April. March 1996 – at a time when the budget was already drawn up on the basis of this data, at a time when he knew that this data would not hold, not even the worst-case scenario for 1996. Given the forecast data from Germany one can say that even the forecast deterioration of the worst-case scenario by our economic research institutes will not last, is not sustainable. We will continue to race in the basement – not only with the economic data, but also with the employee data. It will get worse, but the government has nothing else to offer than to knock on the shoulder and say: We offer the maximum we can do, almost nothing in the field of active labour market policy. – We invest the least in the field of active labour market policy, Mr Minister, across Europe among developed industrialised countries – also in relation to the unemployment rate. [[Abg. Edler: The least youth unemployment!]] Mr. Edler! You can't tell me that, you can't do that. These funds are extremely low, and there is no point in knocking on the shoulder and saying that we have achieved a great deal, because the "crazy" has only been achieved because last year funds have not been exhausted and can therefore be used this year in the framework of EU Social Fund co-financing. But that's the maximum. For design options in your own budget, just over 3 billion schilling remains. The problem we have with this is that, according to everything we know, we can say according to everything we know about observations from the labour market: Although the projects financed through the EU are suitable for integration into the labour market for people who are well-qualified, they are also most suitable for those long-term unemployed who can best achieve it, but they are least suitable for the most difficult-to-use persons. Until now, domestic labour market policies have had the quality, the problem-solving capacities they have enabled them to claim this social solution competence, including in the field of active labour market policy. I suspect that if this year's budget is used in such a way as to continue to spread the funds so generously – for example, this action, in which entrepreneurs are financed in the employment of long-term unemployed, by older workers in order to develop the employment of long-term unemployed in compulsory employment conditions – then there is no money left at all. Then there's no money left. However, this policy has been successful in recent years: Social policy has been pursued in the context of labour market policy in such a way as to also help groups on social economic projects in such a way as to actually improve them. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to bear in mind that this policy, which you are now pursuing, does not offer a policy of conservative change, of cross-border crossing, of a perspective for the social state...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31533	Deputies! I would ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31554	... that you will not achieve a reduction in the tax burden. But one thing. You will safely reach if you continue with this: They will actually ruin the social state in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31585	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e31606	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, in the form of an actual correction to my colleague Reitsamer, said that he had spoken, opposed the word in a press conference on social reduction and said literally: Of me, there's no statement about social reduction. – The only thing that is right in the actual correction is that it has not been on Tuesday this week; Mr Reitsamer was wrong about the date. I therefore welcome the long-term memory of Mr Haider and the FPÖ. In fact, at a press conference, he specifically mentioned a temporary reduction in holiday entitlements, a reduction in unemployment benefit and a also temporary reduction in the second year of leave. [[Abg. May. Stadler: When was that? When was that?]] Hair literally: We're not in a slaring country. – This is the answer: APA 170, 15. June 1993, 11.59 p.m. When he said that, it's completely sausage, he said it: APA 170! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's a weak game!]] It's said. The date is completely by now. [[Calls of the Abg. May. Stadler and Dr. Haider.]] I have also been able to see when I spoke about the accusations and precepts by the FPÖ regarding propaganda of a zero-son round. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In high school he said something else!]] ==References== At 0.25 a.m. in a speech I gave a very detailed opinion in January 1996. But Dr. Haider probably did not hear it because he is never present in plenary at this time. He's mostly not present in the evening hours. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was at 0.25!]] – But perhaps you will take note of it today and stop with these false precepts, or you will be able to prove the truth! Now a few comments on the situation in the labour market. The situation in apprenticeship training has already been addressed. Yes, this is a very topical issue because we have to fear that we will not accommodate all those looking for a teaching place in autumn. Because Mr. Dr. Haider once again presented himself as a "Robin Hood of the Little People" and the apprentices invented, so to speak, I must say: Again at three weeks too late! – Because when the first proposals of the Federal Chamber of Commerce – and they are already a few weeks old – have already arrived a few hours later, namely on 28 November. March 1996, a press release of the trade union metal, mining, energy, in which we strongly oppose the proposals made by the Federal Chamber of Commerce, and also oppose flexible working hours, longer probation periods, zero sonship rounds and for one to two years frozen apprentice compensation. Mr. Haider! They jumped up on a driving train as always. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Colleague! When was that?]] The press release of the trade union metal, mining, energy from 28. ==References====External links== You jumped on a moving train, but you didn't even catch a buffer. You've slipped out, you've fallen on the tracks, Mr. Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr Nürnberger! Can I tell you when the letter is dated? Do you know when it is? ==References== April 1996! 1. April! ==References== April of this year has been published!]] Yes! That's the letter, but the broadcast, the opinion of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, did it on 27 July. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== March. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a April joke!]] That's the truth. On 27th he was in public – a few hours later he was responded. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: On 1. April he's been sent!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Yes, the truth hurts you, it's always so with you. On the five-point programme presented to the public yesterday by President Nice: It is a so-called emergency programme for the apprenticeship situation, and the first priority of this emergency programme is the extension of the legal probationary period for teaching contracts from two to the earlier three months. I would invite the President-in-Office to call me an economic expert who can confirm to us that the extension of the probationary period from two to three months can only create an additional teaching place. He also called for 30 hours a week to be worked in the holding so as not to lead to an increase in vocational education. The problem is that the vast majority of small and small enterprises in particular are unable to impart the necessary theoretical knowledge to apprentices. In a final point, niceness demands that collective contractual negotiations do not lead to an increase in the compensation for apprentices. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now, in principle, say something about apprenticeship training. I am not aware of this problem of the principle of raising the quality of vocational training to the standard necessary today. It would also be high time for the apprentices who have been trained to get out of work without work, then skilled workers would be more quickly trained, and they would be faster in the free economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the economy! It is very easy for you to make cheap workers even cheaper. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true!]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! You don't need to shake your head! [[Abg. Tichy Schreiter: I'm shaking my head! Of course!]] Look You're in practice! [[Abg. Tichy Schreiter: I know her!]] From the metal industry I understand a bit, and I know that if a party has to go on assembly, then the lab is there and has to do the work of helping et cetera. But the customer has no apprenticeship rate on the invoice, he usually gets a helping rate charged. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true either!]] If you really want to do something for the apprentices, you would have been able to accept the request made by my colleagues, Mr Kopper and myself, who are in the Committee on Industry, who are called upon to support those apprenticeships who are able to provide qualified training because they have trainers and the facilities to do so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He is only right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreder]] I admit that we currently have economically difficult times, ladies and gentlemen of the economy! We trade unionists do not dispute this at all, but I would have liked to hear from you sometime what you could do, structural adjustments, innovations et cetera. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I've been waiting for you for a long time!]] But what we have heard from you for weeks and months, I remind you in telegram style – come out and prove to me that sometime you have said something else! –: Flexibility – the magic word. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's where we are for it too!]] Yeah, that's where you scream. I don't need to repeat my basic position today for the x-th time. I can't hear it myself. But just as you imagine taking the pen and just removing the overtime supplements, it won't go! Tell people clearly and clearly, you do not want flexibilization, but you want a cost reduction program – and use the magic word "flexibilization"! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If that doesn't happen, we hear about terminations, shifts of productions to the countries of the former foreign country – to the countries of the former Eastern Bloc; that was a promise – you hear new things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The former foreigner?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Can we prevent this?]] The finishing is outdated, antiquated, that should be abolished. 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary, the holiday allowance, the Christmas remuneration is obsolete, that should be given away. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who says that? Who says that about the economy?]] – It is all to be read, proveable. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: climate, yes!]] That's what you can do. You can read it all in a "Kurier" article from 28. February. A well-known economic researcher, Member of the Liberal Forum, Peter, has confirmed that he has the 13th and 14ths. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities. All this has been said. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about Sallmutter? Mr Nürnberger! What about Sallmutter?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's from a union other than him!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the economy! I now offer you a repeated discussion, because the problems we currently have are far too serious – from apprentices to employees – that we enter into a reasonable dialogue that we have reasonable discussions, including on the question of flexibility. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Say the Sally Mother and Climate! Hums is all right!]] I've said that a few times before, I'll repeat. However: Just as you imagine it with a pure cost reduction program, so it won't go. We need to create new models in a fair conversation. I could show you what's in our collective contract, which models are there. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sallmutter's pay-off isn't there?- Oh, my God!]] You have to read exactly what Sallymutter says, since there is no reward for Sallymutter at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That of Ederer isn't true? Either is nobody?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ederer doesn't count!]] Let us have reasonable discussions, the result of which must be that both must have advantages, the employers and the workers. [[Abg. Koppler: This is the chairman of the metallurgists!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Only the metallurgists count!]] [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and the Freeman.]] On wage policy as a whole, I repeat what I have already said, and this also applies to apprentices. Please do not give up any false hope: In autumn, if it is necessary, when the time comes to make a wage policy like in the past, we will be based on two principles, namely to secure the standard of living of the workers, to develop as far as possible, and according to economic circumstances. The collective agreements, which are currently in place, were not a zero wage round either, so they will not be available in autumn for the large sector of industrial workers. No one should dream that in future wage policy the apprentices will be excluded. They will receive with their earned wage increase!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32043	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Koppler! I'm talking now. The President has given it to me. [[Abg. Koppler: What can I do if you are speaking?! I apologise for you to speak.]] You as the works council chairman of VOEST employees and social politicians should listen to me so that you can learn something for the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Continued calls and calls at SPÖ, ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Nürnberger goes. I'd have a lot to say to him, but maybe he'll come again. – Mr Reitsamer comes out here and says that this consolidation programme of the Federal Government is for budget recovery... – But I am employee spokesperson, Mr. Leikam! [[Abg. Leikam: Sigi! You're not a social speaker! Don't be so hard on yourself!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear colleague Leikam! Look around in your ranks! – Is that supposed to be the Social Democratic Party, with so few Members? About 18 Members of 71 are present on the subject of social matters in the hall! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Reitsamer said that this consolidation programme was balanced on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. This is what she says, although she knows that the Austrian workers are more burdened with 18 billion schilling in this load package, which the Federal Government has now strapped. Mr Sozial Spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party, Deputies Feurstein, came out here and said: We want to ensure employment, we make more money available for unemployment insurance so that the people who are forced into unemployment get more money. But this is a contradiction. The forecasts show up, of course, but what do you do in return? Dr. Feurstein voted in favour of the unemployment insurance law at Malus. This malus is nothing but a workplace exterminating instrument, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I come to this special issue later on. A job offensive has announced this federal government, but it is only on paper. 50 000 jobs are intended to be created – but how? With flexible working hours or how? – That alone cannot be the truth at last. The work is to be distributed more fairly, says Ederer, Sallmutter, Nuremberger and Vergestnich. Ederer and Sallymutter say that the elderly should refrain from part of their income in favour of the younger workers – that is, less work and less income. It must also be said to the people that the whole thing is linked to a lower income. Like in America: Twice work so you can live once. Mr Nürnberger comes out here and says that our Federal Party observer said on a karenz holiday in 1993 that he should be temporary. This was during the second year of the debate, because he knew that this second year is not to be financed. This is the truth – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] This time of leave has been reduced by the originally two years to one and a half years. It's just a question of the time when you put it back on a year. But Mr Nürnberger is a repeater, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Admission!]] He said a year ago that a zero wage round would be considered, we are ready to talk; the overtime will be paid off with a time balance in the future, even if he is ready to talk. And that's what he did on the 18th. This year's business magazine "Schilling" confirmed for the second time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Today he fought again!]] At the time, Mr Nürnberger told the business magazine "Schilling" – I quote – to: "We have very big fantasies. We are ready to have reasonable discussions at all times if we get guarantees that we can understand that we can secure existing jobs." That is exactly what Mr Nürnberger said. And in order not to pay off the overtime with money in the future, but to give a time balance, he stated: "The trade union is also prepared to discuss this proposal!" – These are facts! It was also in the Salzburger Nachrichten on 20 July. January 1996. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the measures taken by the Federal Government, the coalition partner, the social partners, both in the past and now in the Structural Adjustment Act directly promote unemployment and do not prevent it. I've already mentioned: The forecasts show up, both for older workers and for young people, as it will show and what the development of apprenticeships looks like. The number of apprentices dropped by 26 percent from 1984 to 1994. The number of training establishments has also fallen from 26 to 20 percent from 1984 to 1994. The whole campaign, which was made to lift the apprentice's image, has brought nothing; the campaign "Careers with Teaching" has not yielded anything at all. We have a shortage of skilled workers, and the number of apprentices is also declining. Youth unemployment is on the rise, because today the apprentice has simply become a cost factor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Colleague, listen to me, I don't have that much time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The honourable Member is a teacher, she does not know!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She is also active in the economy!]] The local tax has also been extended to apprentice compensation, and this is, of course, a cost factor. This means an increase in the additional wage costs. It is a job tax which practically destroys apprenticeships! [[Congratulations on the liberals!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The apprentice is still worth the public hand in Austria only about 6 000 S a year; an AHS student, on the other hand, is about 60 000 S. In order to counter this, I agree to submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what do you do about the Federal Government, the social partners and the coalition? – They want to freeze the compensation for apprentices for one or two years, as the Federal Chamber of Commerce claims. That would be crazy! – But if you have changed your opinion on this, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, then you have me on your side – otherwise you will have me as your opponent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Mr Nürnberger! They know as well as I do that there are still differences between those apprentices who are subject to the collective agreement of industry and those who are subject to the collective agreement of the trade. The cost of professional schools in the international schools is still a success. He who learns the same profession in an industrial enterprise will be replaced by the teacher's boarding costs, but the apprentice who learns in the industry must take care of it himself. The social partners – particularly trade unionists – are required to ensure equality. But so far, the social partners have been simply overwhelmed in this matter. If the social partners and the Federal Government are working towards flexible working time with time-account models, this means lower income due to loss of more labour. There are then two categories of people: those who have already created something today and who can give up on more work and thus higher incomes, those who can take advantage of an inheritance or other support from me, and those people who are under construction are building a family, building a cottage, buying a dwelling. They are particularly restricted by such considerations that provide lower incomes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because you are talking so much about flexibility, I would like to remind you of the following: We have already submitted a request for the Youth Employment Act in 1991, which includes the fact that apprentices can start at an hour later during the summertime and stop at an hour later. They have rejected this request at the time – although the signature of the Works Council and the person entitled to it is essential: [[Abg. May. Stadler: Real trade unionist!]] Only if they agree could this be done. – Not even that was possible! Do you know what I received before the first committee consultation to answer this question? – Withdraw the request that the social partners have not yet discussed it. After half a year I asked for this again in the Committee on Social Affairs and the same request to withdraw it was rejected. Only: On the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, I did not want to postpone the treatment of this request. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There they had to buy a villa for the chancellor on Marbella! That was more important, because they had to enter into a contract of use so that he could go on vacation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: For union money!]] The trade union is aware of the fact that it knows the same and the same, no question. Everything for ÖGB bosses, little for employees and apprentices: like a penthouse as a service apartment in Vienna for the ÖGB president. But those people he'd have to represent stay on the track. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've only recently, and we've been on the 8th. This year, the Social Committee is dealing with the Unemployment Insurance Act. This unemployment insurance law included the bonus malus system: If an employer employs an older worker, a more than 50 years, he should receive a bonus, and if he cancels someone, he will receive a malus. – A bonus is positive. We wanted a stronger bonus, but that was rejected. That the Malus workplace is destructive has already recognized several. The Social Spokesman of the Austrian People's Party, Deputy Feurstein, has still meant in the Committee that we are losing 750 million Schilling. As far as treatment in plenary is concerned, he has reckoned that the malus is really counterproductive. On the basis of one example, I would like to explain this to you: There is a 40-year-old worker employed in a farm. He's 49 years old. The employer knows: If he is still employed in this farm for a year, first of all a higher treatment claim is due because there is an additional step of a monthly fee, and on the other hand there is the malus. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Are you against executions?]] If the employer only cancels it after 15 years of age, with 55 years of age, the holding will have to pay a malus of one month's fee and three monthly fees of compensation more than if he cancels this employee with 49 years of age. – This is a reason why older workers continue to be forced out of the workplace and then unemployed. Mr. Dr. Feurstein! But that's not all. Now comes with the new changes in kind. Article 15 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, which limits the extension of the framework periods to three years, adds: If this 49-year-old becomes independent, remains independent for three years and falls into bankruptcy due to any economic difficulties, then he has no longer any chance to obtain unemployment benefit, although he had previously fulfilled this prospect, has always paid down and never stamped. He also does not receive emergency aid, but is also a beneficiary of social assistance. But he can't go to retirement either. That's not possible either, because then he'd have to be up to 60. Wait a year. He would be practically from 52 1/2 years of age 7 1/2 years of age, only then he could go to the pension at 60. – This is the effect of your policy that you operate with such laws. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dr. Feurstein! For me, the following was of interest to the Committee on Budgets' deliberations: In the plenary session, the unemployment insurance law is on the 20th. ==References====External links== The Committee on Budgets dealt with the social chapter on March, and Mr Colleague stupidly referred to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, that this malus should actually be corrected. – Now you see how far You think if you decide a law: not even 14 days! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply true today that no one in Austria can trust that today's law will continue to apply tomorrow. This continues with the general withdrawal amount, which is now being scraped together. With an income of over 500 000 s, there is nothing at all, from 200 000 s of income per year there is a grinding system. Overtime supplements are to be completely eliminated if they go after this federal government. Right now the surcharges are taxable from 590 s. A higher tax is charged on holiday and Christmas money – everyone will meet this. In the future, social security will no longer reduce the current salary tax, but vice versa. This is true of someone who has an income of 15 000 S gross per month, with 1 500 S, with an income of 20 000 S with 2 200 S and someone with a gross income of 35 000 S with 4 500 S. There is no more talk of the minister who served on the 13th and 14ths. The Commission has already decided to increase the amount of tax on monthly incomes. All of this affects the great crowd, the average citizen, the employees in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The big hammer, however, is the arrangement regarding allowances. People will then feel this from July on: Anyone who has entered a free amount will not be able to consume it from July, but will have to pay a higher tax. People will feel the effects of this budget recovery tax package for the first time. On the basis of the special expenditure arrangements, which have retroactive effect on 1. In January 1996, taxpayers can only write off more than half of them. This means that if a person has previously introduced 40 000 S – whether in insurance or other measures, whether through house building, the acquisition of a dwelling and the like – this will be reduced by half. He is no longer credited with 20,000 S, but only more than 10,000 S. This, of course, is true of those who create a family that is building up an existence. This is true both in the case of special expenditure, in the case of allowances, in the amount of decommissioning and in the case of the construction savings premium, which is also reduced from 8 to 5 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to mention the capital income tax which was only increased by 12 per cent about two years ago, from 10 per cent to 22 per cent. It will now turn again – from 22 to 25 percent! All of this concerns people who have no wealth but who work and spend the money so that they can live. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Silhavy! Now another word about the pendulums that you will also massively shrink in the future. I'm still coming to the fuel price increase. The increase in the price of petrol is massively burdened by the increase in the cost of family home travels, which were eligible at 28 800 s per year, per month of aliquotation. That's a very massive incision. In addition, the double toad, which, above all, burdens the Carinthians, the Steirers, the Tyroleans enormously, there are very many commuters there. It is incomprehensible to introduce a vignette – and thus to cash a double toad! [[Abg. Edler: This is what the mayor of Vienna does! You're too late!]] If Vignette already, but also for those tolls that are already burdened with toll today. Because this double toe is just a classic example of short-term money acquisition – and nothing else at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then there is the big difference in commuting, in the case of those with company headquarters and workplaces identical. They get something back from the working chambers – I admit that. But what about those with company headquarters and workplaces where employees are not identical, but where they are going to a construction site? But you go to another construction site again and again. - These people don't get anything back. There the Chamber of Labour, Mrs. Hostasch, could show a little heart and include these commuters. I particularly appeal to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We in Austria have the highest petrol price at all. We also have to pay a high mineral oil tax; it accounts for more than half of the petrol price, and VAT is added. All of this, of course, burdens the commutors. I wonder, Perhaps this has something to do with the increase in the fuel price that Mr Marizzi, the former head of the SPÖ, is now at the ÖMV. My colleague from the ÖVP explained that Marizzi has a van there. Maybe that's why the fuel price was increased? Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is inventive when it comes to new sources of revenue. The standard consumption levy has been introduced – and now it is important to switch this ECE consumption to the EU formula, which means that when a car is re-purchased, the extra taxation is 1.2 to 2.5 percent, depending on the size. This maximum rate is now virtually increased from 14 to 16 percent in the case of standard consumption. Ladies and gentlemen! In times like this, I would have expected the Federal Government to try to prevent abuses, to prevent waste, to increase social security and, as it were, to reduce bureaucratic structures. But with this structural adjustment law, no one can trust that what is going on today is still so tomorrow. I've mentioned that before, but you can't say that often enough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How does it look about voluntary continued insurance? Many people have completed a life insurance, a life insurance and a life insurance. However, they can no longer write them off as before, they can no longer claim the depreciation. Investment in businesses cannot be planned, but this is no longer possible in the private sector. Our Federal Party Minister has already mentioned it: For Semperit, the jobs are moving; 2 400 jobs are at risk there by outsourcing of production. Semperit Traiskirchen is considering wandering away because the orders are simply not available. This is certainly to be mentioned in the context of Austria's accession to the EU: In the past, Semperit was a major supplier of the Japanese automotive industry. But now the orders are not available. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the case in the case of compulsory insurance, that in the ongoing discussion on the re-regulation of sickness insurance, a reduction of the sickness allowance is threatened to the level of 26 weeks prescribed by law. As longer-term benefits of the sickness benefit are mainly paid by accident victims and others, who are already seriously affected by fate, we do not believe that a restriction of this benefit is acceptable both morally and socially. So far, it has been the case that health insurance is voluntarily paying the health care for a year and a half. I therefore call for the maximum period of 78 weeks of sickness benefit provided for in the statutes to be laid down in the law so that this is not reduced. I therefore also propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you think that the payment of the sickness allowance should not be reduced from 78 weeks to 26 weeks, you agree to this amendment so that the legislation is enshrined. Ladies and gentlemen! The privileges in the social security institution – Pragmatization, settlement, anniversary payments – were maintained, and not the aggregation of social security institutions is discussed, but the shortcoming of the benefits of the insured. In my opinion, it simply can't go on anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32546	Both the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and the amendment are sufficiently supported and they are included in the negotiations. Mr Nürnberger, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, I would ask you to begin the correction with the presentation of the facts you want to correct. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32573	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Dolinschek has claimed that I would stand up for overtime supplements. - That's wrong. I can't stand for this because I've always spoken only for the area I'm responsible for. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the villa in Marbella, for which he is responsible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, for the villa in Marbella!]] Since 1986, the collective agreements for which I am responsible and for which I have spoken have given the opportunity to pay both the basic wage for overtime and the supplements or split in the form of time compensation. This is the law in force in our collective agreements. Furthermore, I have to correct that the quote from the Schilling interview was only partially reproduced, because the most important thing was – I quote – there: "If there are comprehensible guarantees for securing and creating jobs, then we need great imagination." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I said that!]] That's what I'm familiar with. Mr Dolinschek! If you call yourself so generous as employee representatives, it would be good if you looked into a collective contract and read what is in it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32649	Mr Donabauer has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32678	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In order to be able to pursue social policy, one needs to feel that one needs reason, one needs wide vision and expertise. I kind of ran over my back when I listened to my previous speaker, who, for example, carried around with the term "voluntary insurance" and at the same time connected the life insurance line from the private insurance sector. Mr Dolinschek! Weak! That's all I can say. Or: He talked here about hospital financing and at the same time about sickness benefit. – colleague: idealess, next to it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] When he speaks of social security privileges, he is not quite wrong: Yes, there are certain special arrangements there – there are also some other things in life, in the economy or in the public administration – but if you are talking about settlement, Mr Dolinschek, you obviously do not know what you are talking about, because there is no settlement there – but Mr Dolinschek, I know that better than you – but there is some kind of occupational pension scheme there. [[Abg. Dolinschek: But yes!]] We don't need to argue about that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course you know better! You are competent when cashing!]] I do not defend everything, Mr Stadler, but take note that injustices must be clarified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must align social policy in such a way that it is first of all need-oriented, remains financially viable, and thirdly – that is not a question – is limited to failures, because here too... Mr. Dr. Haider, who may work more than you sometimes do, because you are never here, but we are always there. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now we're going to kick the social security officials a little!]] That's the difference between us. You're never here, and we're there. That's your problem. Don't talk about others, but take yourself by the nose. Talk about what you understand, but you really don't understand anything about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have to kick the social security officials a little, that's what the Busek said, not me! That's the busek!]] There is no question that there is a need for corrective action in some areas. Ladies and gentlemen! What's this about? First of all, we need to try to deal with the problem in the health insurance sector. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Have you read what the pipes wrote about you? It doesn't have a very high opinion of you!]] By changing the economic situation, we have lower contributions, but at the same time higher costs. However, by changing hospital funding alone, we will not deal with these issues. We need more self-sufficiency, we need more responsibility – and we also need more prevention. We talked about it in detail yesterday and for a long time, and we will continue these discussions. We will put forward concrete proposals in line with what we can finally bring into line with our political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we must remember that the pension system cannot be a labour market regulator, although we have largely solved labour market problems in the past also through the pension system. Let's open this up once. – Otherwise, it could not be that the main association of social security funds writes in its last announcement that the retirement age – I don’t want to go closer to it – is dramaticly deep; as low as hardly in any other country in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we need to think about. There's something we need to do. And since we are not just talking about the liberals, I would like to remind you that we have a structural adjustment law here, in which we have referred to all this. First of all, we have changed the conditions of entry by raising expectations. We have installed various other difficulties – yes, we call them so. It's done. The fact that it is not only possible to reap bright joy in this Republic must be clear to everyone, but we have provided responsible concepts and laws that are not just a punishment for everyone, as you sometimes represent. The secret is: We are working to ensure that this remains financeable in the long term. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now comes the secret!]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the secret of the Structural Adjustment Act!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A little, sweet secret!]] You simply lack the knowledge. We have made sure with the bonus malus system in the pension system that the entry into the early pension is no longer so attractive, gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the secret of the Structural Adjustment Act!]] It might be better if you started retirement soon so that you can get less disturbed. That wouldn't be so bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the secret of the Structural Adjustment Act!]] Yes, I do. We also need to bring about an approximation of pensions. It is not the case here that we have, as it were, 7 000 s to 4 times the amount of the pension. The citizens will probably ask us: Why? These differences in pensions can no longer be justified by the amount of contributions alone. We have also taken on tough conditions. Especially the industrial economy, especially the farmers feel this structural adjustment law and have also had to take a contribution burden – let us say that – so that we can secure our systems in a sustainable way. This is responsible policy – and not a light-ready chattering, as you sometimes want to bring in them, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the secret of the Structural Adjustment Act!]] You can't land with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you regret that we are making changes in the care money, please show me a country in Europe, a country in the world that has a care money system of this quality, as we do! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right! That's it!]] Show me one! - Look, you can't call me anyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we now proceed to pay the care allowance in kind, i.e. if we stop paying for hospital stays, this is not a wrong decision, but a most necessary and correct decision. Have the courage to recognize and share good things! That would be right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also be able to secure the generation contract, that generation agreement, which, at the end of the day, is the basis of all social benefits. A great Austrian politician said 40 years ago: Social security is the foundation of democracy. And that's why we're working on it: To ensure that social security is guaranteed or secured in the future. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 40 years ago he said that?]] It is also about ensuring the sustainability of systems through this Structural Adjustment Act. That is the right way, and that is why we also give our assent. And if you still haven't understood it, You still have time to think up until the afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32931	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e32952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, too, no one has disputed that Austria has an excellent social system in international comparison. In recent years there have been a number of measures which have significantly improved this social system. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of the care allowance, of improvements in the field of care leave, of the better assessment of child training times and a number of other measures. At the same time, tax-reducing measures have also been adopted in recent years. All of this has happened at a time when international economic development has been better assessed. Unfortunately, the international economic development, which is of course also coloured in Austria, was not so good. Therefore, it is now necessary to take account of this worse economic development, which is internationally conditional, by making timely, reasonable and socially sound corrections, whatever the case with this Structural Adjustment Act. The aim is to keep our high social standard financially in the future. Especially in the area of my chapter, the social sector, there have been countless discussions and discussions with the interests of all concerned to draw up this structural adjustment law. Of course, it was not always possible to reach the full agreement of the stakeholders, but we tried to hear all the representatives of interest and to reach their agreement, as far as possible. It was negotiated with the representatives of trade unions, industry, the economy, but also particularly with the representatives of pensioners, with the representations of the disabled, with the representation of the high school. And all these discussions have just led to the fact that we now have a structural adjustment law for the social sector, with which it is really guaranteed that it is socially acceptable, socially balanced. With a certain amount of thanks, I can say here that in the debate so far, no one on the part of the opposition – and not on the part of the opposition – was truly serious criticism. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What was that then?]] A number of issues have been dealt with, but I do not see a single point where you would have proposed decisive, well-founded amendments to this law, in the way that they are socially acceptable and understandable and ensure financial viability. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was probably a praise!]] In one I have to give everyone the right – and this has been the goal of the government from the very beginning –: International economic development will continue to concern us in the near future. It is likely that, not only for the next few months, but also for the next few years, the problems of economic development and the problems of job security and the problem of creating new jobs will be the priority. This is the biggest challenge, and therefore it has been and is right to make corrections in different areas, but at the same time to provide for active labour market policies that are not less and more resources for job creation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] When I look at the field of active labour market policy, which belongs to my department, I can say: It was a little over 5 billion schilling last year. In addition, more than 6.5 billion schilling are planned for this year's active labour market policy, with the European Social Fund's resources: We will also need these funds, with the main emphasis on the fact that we will, of course, try to ensure employment for young people. Austria has the lowest youth unemployment rate in all of Europe – and that must remain so! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why we have dealt with the problem of youth employment in the government and with the social partners long before Dr. Haider raised this issue here. Our priority will be to ensure that, in terms of youth and the quality and future of Austrian skilled workers, we provide employment and training opportunities to young people, as has been the case so far in all the years. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: We've heard that for years! Then why do we have 300,000 unemployed?]] [[Abg. Leikam: (To Abg. Böhacker) I don't know! It's just Blabla!]] We have already explained this several times, and we have also proved that it works. I would just like to give a few examples: In the field of active labour market policy, we spend more than 200 million schilling for young people so that they can be consulted accordingly so that additional skills can be put in place. This year, in a new action, together with the economy, we have provided funding for the provision of special support to teachers in respect of those girls who take up a teaching in occupations where there are less than 40 percent of women: For a girl who takes up the teaching in a teaching profession where there is not at least 40 percent of women, a promotion of 4000 s is paid monthly: [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] We hope that we will also make provision for women to be trained in several professions in the future – and not just in two or three professions. This is one of the measures, and so the whole thing could continue. There is, of course, no patent recipe. Everyone should be referred to as a scharlatan who came here and claimed that in Austria, regardless of economic development throughout the world, we could provide for ourselves alone in a way that we can guarantee full employment. We want to pursue this full employment by all means, and that is why we have also provided in this Structural Adjustment Act Novelle that funds from other areas can be made available for this active labour market policy. But not active labour market policy in the narrower sense, it can be: We must, in order to secure jobs or create new ones, of course also ensure that, as in recent years, the quality and competitiveness of Austria's economic location are further improved. This includes, of course, training, continuing training, which we will add much more weight. That's one of the quality features. But this also means that we are further developing the infrastructure of this state, which is so vital for the economy and for all of us. [[Abg. Meisinger: Good word aid!]] Infrastructure, transport development, telecommunications expansion, development of environmental measures – all this has already been decided in the government despite budget savings, despite the need for consolidation. We already started this last year. Special resources will be made available, at multi-digital billions, for the development of rail infrastructure, for the development of telecommunications, for environmental development and for development measures and other measures in the field of road transport. This ensures infrastructure quality for the future, while at the same time ensuring jobs in those areas that are particularly critical, and creating new ones, namely in the construction industry. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] In active labour market policies, we see several priorities: youth, special measures for women, special measures for the long-term unemployed and special measures for the disabled. On the problem of long-term unemployed: It was completely misunderstood what Mr Oellinger asked the Greens to do here. On the one hand, he did not want to encourage the long-term unemployed to be placed in the economy, on the other hand, he did not want us to help the long-term unemployed together where this is not possible. Together with the social partners, we have developed a special programme for long-term unemployed with the economy. From April onwards, those enterprises, the long-term unemployed, who, of course, are particularly difficult to find work in the present time, will receive social security contributions – up to 30 percent – as a promotion, so that these people can return to a normal employment relationship. I do not understand how to criticize this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, we currently have around 30 000 people in Austria who have been providing emergency aid since 1993 or earlier. In times when it becomes even more difficult to find a job, these people are particularly difficult. That is why I have instructed the labour market service to do everything possible to bring them to the economy with special additional qualification measures, according to their occupations. I am aware that this will not work in any case. Therefore, it is necessary – as with the earlier "Action 8000", in addition to trying to create employment in the public sector, reasonable, appropriate employment. And these activities in the public sector, such as renovations or other things, starting from the office sector to all other sectors, should be organized in such a way as to be accepted by the economy that this has taken over the public sector, because otherwise they would not be carried out at all. This is where the possibility is to create employment with additional funding, for example by associations and by means of emergency aid, useful employment, important for individual and necessary overall. Because we must not forget these people who have no work for a long time, especially in today's times. I really call on everyone to cooperate constructively and not to dissuade this really necessary and humane project in favour of the long-term unemployed! That's my request. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: When we proposed this, the ÖGB has criminalized it!]] Of course, we will jointly implement measures in all the areas necessary to secure employment that are necessary to remain competitive – from red tape to export promotion. The most important goal for us is to secure employment in order to guarantee individual income while safeguarding our social system. In the draft, which is extensive, but which has really been debated with all, there is no constitutional provision either, although constitutional provisions are not illegal. On the contrary: That is foreseen. But we have not taken any constitutional action. These are many measures, and I know that it was, of course, difficult for the ladies and gentlemen to deal with this in a short time. But it was also possible for my officials. As has been said, we have agreed to all these provisions with the relevant interests. There are corrections. Consolidation of 100 billion schilling without anyone being affected is not possible. But the whole package is so balanced that those who earn more contribute more and that those who are socially weak remain free from the burdens. – This is the principle. In the field of pension insurance, we have solved the highly debated subject of the statutory retirement age in such a way that we do not raise the statutory retirement age, even with long insurance periods of 55 or 60 years – 55 for women, 60 for men. It would not be right in the present time to make a correction in this regard. Because the increase in the actual retirement age, for which I am also referring, is only possible if we can create enough jobs for young people and for older people. This is the basic prerequisite for increasing the actual retirement age. If, as has been repeatedly demanded and as is done in other countries, we had only raised the statutory age of entry, then we would have with mathematical certainty more unemployed and also more youth unemployment. Therefore, unlike the corrections in other countries, we have decided to continue to maintain this relatively low retirement age. And with 35 real years of contribution – years of work – you can also retire as a woman with 55 years of age and as a man with 60 years of age. The increase in insurance periods is a second measure. In the area of the pension system, we are increasing – and I think, justifiably, too – the importance of the duration of the insurance scheme, in the case of individual measures envisaged here. For reasons of justice, more account is taken of how much insurance period a person brings in. And for the pension type due to long periods of insurance, 35 real contribution years, 35 working years, are sufficient in the future. If other insurance periods are additional necessary, then the necessary insurance period will be increased from 35 to 37,5 years in a reasonable period – by 2001- with protection of the year. I do not, of course, want to discuss all the issues here because of the limited time available to me. I can only say one thing: We did not reduce unemployment benefit in the unemployment insurance sector. We have more – than one of the few states! – the right to emergency aid is not limited. However, we want to help people to find them back into work. And we take greater account of the number of insurance years before unemployment in emergency aid. We have also made social corrections in this area. I am also in favour of this - and I said this last year after I took office - that we need to step up our efforts to combat abuse. In my view, abuse takes place in individual cases. But these individual cases are always used to discredit the entire system. That is why I believe that every reasonable person will understand that we have also taken more measures against abuse in this law, and at the same time we want to see whether they are black jobs or illegal employment – on which side always. We want legal jobs instead of illegal employment, legal jobs with proper social security. This also applies in the area of circumvention of social security obligations through incorrect work contracts. We have also taken an essential step in this regard, certainly with a number of compromise measures, which always exist when something is reintroduced. It is important that we have taken a decisive step towards ensuring social security for the individual and making it clear that an escape from the social security system is harmful to the whole. Again: After these measures too, we have a model social system in Austria. With the structural measures, we have ensured that it will continue to be eligible for funding in times of crisis. At the same time, active employment policy for us will have the highest priority in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33109	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Peter. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Federal Minister! You have shown impressively in your speech that employment is a real concern to you. In my opinion, however, they have not taken enough account of the fact that there are a number of homemade problems, why employment in Austria does not work better than it is at present; home-made problems that we find in the form of employment barriers, especially in the case of youth employment. Mr Nürnberger referred to this and discussed the issues of youth employment and apprenticeship accommodation in 1996. Why do fewer and fewer firms teach apprentices? Why are we not willing to discuss the costs of apprenticeship training, which are becoming increasingly important because, of course, companies operate cost management in less economic times and face any cost position of their productivity? If an apprentice has a monthly fee of only 7 000 S – which is really not much – but because of the vocational schooling period only ten months work in operation, 8 400 S of these 7 000 S will already work. If an instructor really takes care of the apprentice even of one hour a day – which is very little – then at 22 days a month and 250 s at the expense of the working hours done are another 5 500 S. So, if you just count these two factors together, at the cost of about 14 000 s per month, you will have to compare the limited applicability of young people and the cost of apprenticeship training. Federal Minister! It would be nice if you thought about it. Of course, you will help the apprenticeship training companies if you give the teachers a promotion for apprenticeship training, but this homemade problem will still remain and lead to a further reduction in the supply of apprenticeships. You must not go beyond the laws of economics! No one in the House is affected by the question of unemployment. It is the main problem facing our country in the transnational competition of economic sites. The loser in this transnational competition is Europe and is Austria, the winners are Asia and America. Let us examine the question why America is one of the winners. In a ten-year process of structural change – from 1983 to 1993 – America has understood to create a total of 19.7 million new jobs, 80 percent of them in the service sector. But not only Hamburger vendors were recruited there, not only retail workers with poor social benefits and low wages, but 20 percent of these 19.7 million additional employees have been employed in the media and entertainment sector, 20 percent in the well-paid health sector, 10 percent in the best-paid financial sector. Ladies and gentlemen! So it's too easy to say that the Americans had only done this about the low-cost wage – although this allegation undoubtedly has its authority in part. Since 1993, America has created a further 8.4 million jobs, and today in America – unlike Austria – 75 percent of people in the service sector are employed. We're bringing it to just under 58 percent. With all the criticism of the US society, with all the criticism of falling minimum wages, with all the criticism of lack of social security, and one and there unrestricted capitalism, we should also see the benefits that have been provided there: In almost 14 years, the 28 million new jobs were created. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us see the fact that the United States of America has an unemployment rate of just under 5%. Germany has one of 10 percent, Austria one of 5 or 8 percent – depending on how they are calculated. And if you are now the parked unemployment... - Please? [[Abg. May. Posch: These are different criteria that are applied!]] Agreed! You are right, the statistical criteria are difficult to compare. Let's take them as orders of magnitude. The unemployment rate in Austria of 5 or 8 per cent, depending on how it is calculated, is in fact well above 10 per cent, if we add to the social-parked unemployment, such as early retirement, years of retirement and emergency aid. I'm not here to propose a U.S. killer capitalism. I also believe that the authoritarian capitalism of Japanese influence on us in Europe, to us in Austria, does not fit. But we need to consider how we defend the Austrian successes of social security and stability and yet maintain our global competitiveness in international competition. There's the problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to examine with you the secrets of US success. The secrets of the US success lie in an absolute orientation to customer needs that are understood as employment opportunities. We have a too large public sector. We have too many resources in the public sector and too little resources in the competitive sector, where we need to recognise market opportunities. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We in Austria refuse market opportunities! We do not let companies take the market opportunities because we are too rigid in the framework conditions we set for work. The transformation of markets must be transformed into jobs through structural change. However, if we reject this structural change if we refuse it if we adhere to social, labour law provisions that are now preventing productivity, then we will not be able to imitate this US success, including our social security and stability. The price of this refusal of the market is stagnation up to the decline also of income in Austria. We have more room! We need to benefit from the margin in Austria between the labour costs of just over 250 S in industry and the gross wages of 125 S. In this savings package, you propose energy taxes – and I will not tire out to repeat it time and again –; Energy taxes, which do nothing but raise the indirect level of taxation and influence inflation, without any structural effect. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They must use the scope of energy taxes to reduce labour costs without affecting gross wages. We have this scope, unlike American society. So it's not about killer capitalism, it's just about higher productivity and cost-effectiveness using the production factor at work. The refusal of reform, which we place on the social network here and there again – the principle of casting canning, the idea of claim – leads to this increased additional wage costs. There are many ways of streamlining the social system without taking away a single mass of performance from the really needy people in this country. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, do you not address this question? Do you understand at last that this social network, which is essential in its value for the citizens of our country, which is the greatest contribution to the political culture of our country, must not be a claim but a aid to self-help? Why don't you give up on the standard standard of living? Indeed, the good-earner has the opportunity, during the time he deserves – if he knows he has to do it – to provide for himself in such a way that the guarantee of existence is sufficient because he has taken care of himself. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: May I ask a question? - Why don't the ski instructors take care of it? With the ski teachers, we have the problem that they do not have an old age pension!]] Mr. Feurstein! Thank you for the introduction. But I do not want to discuss with you the Shi teachers now, but rather to ask the fundamental question why we do not set new frameworks for people. It won't go from today to tomorrow. It will be a long-term transition, a creation of consciousness. The people in Austria are used to being embedded from the cradle to the babre in the social network. Unfortunately, this social network has become unfinancing, as the deficits in all social pots show. We must therefore find new strategies, new social security strategies for the really needy in our country, and more self-responsible for those serving the service. And that means we have to distance ourselves from the principle of standard living, because we cannot afford it because it has become unfinancingable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that employee protection is essential, but I believe that employee protection must take place at an internal level, where trade unions have the task of consulting works councils. Flexible working time regulations do not make sense to be carried out on the back of the employees. It is a question of understanding: Is satisfying customer needs a burden on employees? Isn't economy just satisfying customer needs? – Those who refuse this satisfaction of customer needs will refuse the chance of productivity, the opportunity to add value. Ladies and gentlemen! I regret to say that the structural adjustment package unfortunately goes in the wrong direction. This structural adjustment package, decided by the coalition parties in these days, will result in lower investment and lower employment. I think this is a disaster for our country. The path of labour contract taxation proposed by the Minister of Social Affairs is in principle correct. It is a right way for the Social Minister to think that it would be wise to spread the basis of assessment and ask how we can more widely share the social burden over a wider basis of assessment. But this, Mr Social Minister, at lower rates. They'll leave the sentences in the same way. Mr Sozialminister! They widen the basis for calculating the deficits you have accumulated in recent years, because you have promised more benefits than you could clearly pay to clean up afterwards. That's where the donkey's going to hit the back. The total cost of social contributions in Austria of gross domestic product is 14.8 percent. In Germany it is 15.2 percent. Our Swedish friends, whom we have taken as a model for so long, have already reduced the rate to 13.4 percent, and the Swedish sentence continues to fall. Italy – a non-insignificant competitive country of ours – has a rate of 11.6 percent. I do not want to debate the rate of Great Britain, which is almost 6 per cent. But one thing is clear: There is a coherent connection: The higher this percentage of social contributions to gross domestic product, the higher the unemployment rate. Compare it across Europe. Obviously, we're doing something wrong. Obviously, we are blocking the opportunity to provide jobs for more employees. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Sozialminister! If you now include the work contracts, without reducing the rates, in the social contributions, this rate will rise in Austria to 15 or 15.2 percent. This is exactly where the Germans are, who are now discussing how they are coming down from the 15.2 percent in the face of a savings package in the size of 350 billion schilling. They are in the process of moving towards 15.2 percent of social contributions to GDP. Another agreement, Mr Social Minister: a yes to withholding tax as wage and income tax prepayment. This is a way to increase tax justice. We know that massive tax evasions have occurred in the area of works contracts. Tax evasions are a distortion of competition. That is why I have no understanding of this and call myself a source tax. But no to a mere burden on works contracts with social security contributions to cover the deficits in social pots. The definition problems of the coming months will be Legion: What is a free service contract? What is a service-like contract of work? What is a real contract of work? What is an incorrect contract of work? The laws are so immeasurable, the provisions so difficult that we have great difficulties... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'll be right there, Mr. Stadler. The next case of sin is the erodement of the basis of assessment. It's clear: If I find the basis for the assessment of newspaper colporteurs in order to undermine those institutions that are involved in the promotion of adult education et cetera, I must increase the rates again. It's a terrible thing to say: Due to the political pressure of a media power, these are excluded from the tax obligation for works contracts. It is not understandable, however, that the works contracts are taxed on the basis of works contracts between those lecturers who make the training of employees in the Berlitz School or in other private institutions of adult education, whereas the works contracts concluded by the WIFIs, BFIs and national universities are not subject to social insurance. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Are also taxed!]] Mr. Stumbling! I would like to hear that they must also be taxed, because then there has been a level playing field again. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You have to distinguish between tax and social security!]] I'm talking about social security. Social security has now become a tax such as wage tax. It's a hair-splitting, and we both shouldn't have hair-splitting. The rest that we have is too valuable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: For this we have too little hair to work hair cleft!]] As important as the WIFIs, the vocational promotion institutions, the people's universities as adult education institutions are, however, it must be noted that it is not justified that they are treated differently when paying their teachers as adult education institutions operating on the free market. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, according to the proposals you have made, the work contracts will become 30 percent more expensive. 15.8 percent employer contribution, 13.5 percent employee contribution, 3 percent local tax is a total of 30 percent. More expensive work contracts mean fewer work contracts and less employment. You'll run through your savings package. He lacks the overall reforms. They only followed the dictatorship of empty cash registers. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! We face difficult times with your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33269	Mrs Hostasch has now been reported to speak. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33291	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days' debate, too, there has always been no doubt that budgetary consolidation is necessary and that there are also restrictions on public expenditure in the social field. I believe, however, that it must be noted that other countries also have similar, sometimes even greater problems in dealing with their tasks and that the Austrian path is clearly different from that of other countries, when I assume the overall package of this consolidation programme, and also associated it with the intentions expressed by the Federal Government in their work programme. I believe that it should be seen very neutral and very objectively that social change, cuts and withdrawals have also taken place in the past. Now, of course, we are particularly demanding, because it has never been a comparable measure. Overall, with the Social Chapter, we have integrated 30 billion schilling into the proposals budget-effectively, budget-stabilising. I believe, however, that Ladies and gentlemen, the structure of this programme clearly shows that there is no unilateral burden, that all the groups of the population are affected, and that it is explicitly important that the weighting of incomes, the weak, the weaker in our society, or only to a much lesser extent are affected. I think it is very important to maintain the social balance that we simply demand from a social policy point of view. But I think it is also very important that this Structural Adjustment Act recognises clear new orders in some areas of social policy. I would like to remind you of those measures which are intended in pension insurance law to reinforce the principle of insurance in order to achieve an increase in the actual retirement age, but this is linked to alternatives, particularly as regards further employment, but also to the very important alternative that we put rehabilitation before taking up a pension benefit. I think it is also a very important emphasis that we provide additional contributions for the self-financing of the pension system among the self-employed. It is equally important for me – the Federal Minister rightly pointed out – that a general trend is being countered in the field of labour market promotion. In order to achieve more employment and prevent greater unemployment, there will be no less resources available for active labour market policies, for labour market promotion. We will also benefit from all possibilities of using the European Social Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also very important to point out that these measures, as we are now discussing them, can be seen in connection with the employment policies that are being discussed in these days. I would like to remind you that a few days ago, there was a building summit with the relevant ministers and the social partners, in which very concretely important construction projects were addressed for the next years, which are now under planning and for which funding is ensured. It is now a question of ensuring that these are implemented in the same way as planned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also ask you, as country representatives, to have an eye in your federal states to ensure that, wherever the countries are required, all these projects are dealt with urgently in the opinion, in the implementation, in the administrative procedures, so that they are not delayed by bureaucratic barriers in the time-limit, in the duration of the implementation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also very important that we not only exploit the national possibilities, but also become an initiative over nationally speaking in the European field. I also think that the visit of the President of the European Union, Santer, has been an important visit in these days, which he has also made very clear that he will do everything at European level to make employment policy a matter, but not only on the subject, but also on concrete initiatives. It has also hoped that through shifts it will be used to finance the trans-European networks in order to provide additional impetus and employment measures. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that, despite all these measures, it is necessary – not only can this be a task of Austria, but that it goes far beyond that – to question, to criticize, but also to say, so that financial and economic concepts cannot continue to pursue a policy directed against the working people. If the exchange rate of a large company is accelerated because it is announced that this company has several thousand employees, this is a misdevelopment. If the New York Stock Exchange is faced with a price decline because the labour market situation in the United States has improved because a few hundred thousand jobs could be created if this leads to a fall in exchange rates, then this is a wrong economic concept. Dear Mr Mag. Peter! I think it is a false liberal economic concept, because it is against people, the market does not regulate it. The financial markets do not regulate employment, they are removed from the productive markets, from the value of goods, from the factor labour, and they are given a self-dynamic that is directed against the interests of the people. If you address the American model, I have to say: Those jobs, as they are now created or created in America, too many thousands, do not correspond to the quality of jobs we want. They are jobs which are not the basis of an employee's existence, but a worker must enter into several employment relationships in order to maintain himself and his family. Our goal of achieving good quality, secure jobs is a European employment concept. The American way doesn't seem to be the right one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that it is important to recognise that, on the one hand, this work programme of the Federal Government, but in particular with this Structural Adjustment Act, of course, many other tasks have not been solved. We have to deal with the issue of financing our health care. But I see very promising first steps and think that we are on a good path. This is an agreement between the financial compensatory partners, about the ideas about the future structure and also the future billing system of hospitals. I also welcome the intention of the Social Ministry to revise the Unemployment Insurance Act so that it becomes legible and applicable again. One fact is that the Unemployment Insurance Act has been amended several times in recent years, which has made us react flexibly to the needs of changes and has tried to find the best possible solutions. This has led to an inconspicuous law over time. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: We are waiting for you to comment on the apprentices!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The apprentices are not important!]] Mr Stadler! I say what seems important to me, and not what you believe. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You're talking about the hot bridle around!]] Mr Stadler! Dr. Haider! I do not think you have noticed what Mr Nürnberger has written to you in the main book, because you do not want to listen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have a selective perceptiveness, go back there. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The floor army apprentices who come from abroad are important!]] Mr Stadler! I have the impression that you have so far agreed with my remarks that you have not found a clue, and now absolutely believe you have to find an approach here to... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Madam President! I have a letter from you! It says that only the flooring teachers from abroad are important to you! The domestic floor army apprentices are not important to you!]] Mr Stadler! I think you have several letters from me and you can also find several comments from the Chamber of Workers in your club. You sometimes use the arguments and expert knowledge of the Chamber of Workers for your argumentation, and you will see from these statements how important the apprentices are to us, how important we take this question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From abroad!]] But unlike you, we do something instead of just talking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Stadler! Mr Dolinschek! If you want to hear something about yourself, let me ask you a question. Let me question your demands, and not now, Mr Haider, as you do, Mr Mag. Stadler, who has said, perhaps raised in his youth, in school age or in youth, but he has raised demands as a mature man – it was in January this year. He attended a press conference on 23 February. In January, the "Ally for Jobs" was presented. Under the title "Separation of additional wage costs", a reform of the insolvency right is required in order to limit the financing of the pleas. It seems to you that the insolvency fund serves to cover claims from employees, claims from workers and employees, but not to finance pleas. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But of course! Until the "consumer" plea you have to answer!]] They write under the title "Separation of additional wage costs": temporary reduction of chamber charges. This is not an additional wage, very valued gentlemen of the liberals! Chamber expenditures cannot be treated in the same way as additional labour costs, but are contributions from the members. They write about the approval of older workers for the service providers. I ask you – and I guess I'll have to ask: What to understand You under it? Does this mean reducing wages for older Members? You write under point 5: more time autonomy for businesses with no income loss for employees. Have you never thought that self-employed workers need more flexibility, too, for employees to want time autonomy? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Stand in there!]] No, no, no, [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course! Sure!]] Mr Stadler, I ask you to read your own papers, please read them. Point 5: more time autonomy for businesses. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We protect income, and you take it away from them! That's the truth!]] Dr. Haider! If you do not fit a formulation although it is proven by you, try immediately to change the subject because you are unable to answer objective arguments as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Point 9: higher unemployment benefit in case of successful improvement in qualifications. It is absurd to raise such a claim. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have been mourning around the time since Benya!]] What is the aim of labour market promotion? What is the objective of labour market policy? – Achieving that quality improvement prevents unemployment, reintegration into the labour process, but not higher unemployment benefits. That's not our understanding. I'm surprised it's yours at once. In your paper is also written: Bonus-Malus-System as an incentive for the employment of older workers. I wonder why Mr Dolinschek then criticizes what... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because we proposed another malus system!]] Do you know which bonus system You promised or demanded? – The companies that already employ older people should receive additional funds or pay less for what is actually a matter of course. This cannot be the policy we support! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Mr Dolinschek! May I read something from your location control program? – Pension reform: A pension adjustment is required with assets, the retirement age is freely available after 35 years of insurance; no pension provisions, actuarial calculation, are to be promoted, occupational pensions and self-sufficiency beyond the current level. – I wonder: How do you want to bring this kunterbunt of conflicting intentions into a hat? The piece of art will not even bring you together, although you can often explain many things with half-truths here. Another point: Social security – page 39, with You can read it –: It calls for the abolition of the monopoly status of insurance undertakings in the interests of increased competition. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's it!]] On the same side, but a little further down, require a aggregation of the 28 institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sure!]] That's when I wonder if this isn't going to be a monopoly. So you disagree with yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is not in conflict!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is an intellectual problem not to understand a paper!]] I also have a problem with the free tax concept – to present you with something from your own table drawer. They want to reduce the tax rate to EU level. EU level is 41 to 43 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 41!]] Well, you're right, Dr. Haider, let's stay with 41. Then I can tell you: In 1995, we had 41.6% in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: However, the tax rate is 43 percent!]] Please go to the university and study, then you will find that I am right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They demand, ladies and gentlemen, a 3.5 percentage point reduction in... [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I do not think it is possible to clarify this with you – even in a dialogue we practice in this House – because you are not able to do so because you are simply wrong and have a wrong concept. Our concepts are the right ones! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Let's talk about the villa in Marbella!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have insisted that despite all efforts under the provisions of unemployment insurance law, the Special Assistance Act would not have intended effects under the Structural Adjustment Act, namely those colleagues who already have their service relationship before the 1. 1. In 1996, however, due to longer notice periods after the 31st century. 3rd. Not yet reported unemployed in 1996. I would therefore ask you to give your consent to our amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You should say a word to the apprentices!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's not important to you, you said!]] You can't put that on me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You said that! You said you were just talking about important things, and you didn't say anything to the apprentices!]] No, I'm talking to what I've been trying to talk about. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That is embarrassing for you now, I understand!]] I told you that Mr Nürnberger gave you exactly the answers you deserved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Nothing to the apprentices! No applications!]] Mr President. I now have the problem with speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33700	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would ask that another speaker in your group loses the request. That's not gonna work out anymore, you only have more than 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33715	Ladies and gentlemen! Then I'll take care of it. I would nevertheless ask you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33745	Mrs Haidlmayr has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33767	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The savings package we have been discussing for days now is an attack on people with disabilities, as we have never had it in this Republic. All you have granted us in 1993 through the care allowance and some small improvements in the disability sector, you have now taken us away two and three times. Mrs Hostasch and some other previous speakers have also expressed their views on unemployment. But no one here in this House has so far mentioned that unemployment among the disabled in Austria is already over 30 percent. And if you still charge those people who have been forced to work all day on a pocket money basis, then the unemployment rate in the disability sector is already 80 percent. But these numbers haven't given you any thought to this day. No measure has been taken to control this unemployment rate, which increases by 3 to 4 percent annually, in any form, even in any form. You will say, of course: We have, of course, done this, we have increased the compensation tax! But make yourself aware: The increase in the compensation tax by 30 S per month, say 360 S per year for 25 employees, is not even worth mentioning. The increase per employee is 1.20 S per month. If you seriously believe that you can create jobs in the disabled area, then you are far away from any reality. They have not even found it worth the effort to deal with the effects of these minimum increases. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky and Mr. Vice-Chanceller Schüssel have clearly made a speech about disabled people. Even in autumn, we were promised that there would be no harm in the disability sector and we would try to integrate disabled people into the work process. Nothing like that has happened! Not even in this House, where the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons has been adopted, the Ministries are ready to fulfil their duties of recruitment. Not even the legislator who passed this law adheres to his own agreement. 60 000 jobs could be employed if they were to be employed. But instead of occupying 60 000 jobs, one prefers to keep an unemployment rate of almost 80 percent. If you believe about the SPÖ and the ÖVP that in the next few years you will still be able to tell anyone about it, you will fight against social reduction, you will protect the weak and, as Mr Feurstein has said, you will be safe from life risks, then I must make you aware that you are lying in your own pocket. They do not safeguard against any risk of life for disabled and in need of care. On the contrary! You have made the life risks of this group of people even worse with your savings package. In the field of care money, you have no scruples, disabled people, especially mentally and multiplely disabled people, the care allowance of 1 138 s, which they have remained for personal assistance to reduce 50 percent. Estimated 35 million schillings will bring this to the budget. But what you're doing with it is probably not aware of, or you're already living so perfectly in your ignorance that you don't want to know anything about it at all. Have you ever tried to fight your personal livelihood with 19 S per day? – If you had ever tried it, you would have to know that disabled and needy people with this degree of financial resources can never cover their personal needs. If you really want to safeguard against life risks and to fight for the weak, it should be clear to you that at 19 p.m. per day it simply does not work. I could still demonstrate to you by means of several examples where you have cut down the lives of disabled people with this savings package and where you have threatened their existence. I've done it a few times in my last speeches, but I want to save myself today, just because I'm tired of the ignorance you're showing. Next time, the interested parties in Austria will look much more closely at what ÖVP and SPÖ expect: for disabled and old people nothing at all! They want them as voters, and then they ignore them and kill them. That's how it goes until the next election. That's going to be But you won't succeed again at the next election! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It certainly has its reason why the disabled speaker of the ÖVP has not made his speech known for more than half a year. Either he is not allowed to do it or he is already so far, that he very well refers to income for being, among other things, disabled speakers, but for disabled people, he does nothing anymore. I want I would like to draw your attention once again to the following: Think about it – you still have the opportunity to do it – whether you want to push disabled people further out or whether you want to give disabled people the chance to move a bit further into society. That is why I am proposing an amendment to the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this amendment must also be more than illustrative for you from the SPÖ and the ÖVP. If you confess a lot more to disabled people, you will agree to my request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33885	The amendment just tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. I now speak as next speaker, Mrs Steibl.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e33909	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my actual comments, I would like to reply briefly to Mr Haidlmayr. She said that this savings package in the Volksmunde was a scourge and shudder against ignorance. I would just like to make one comment: For example, care money throughout Europe is not treated as positively as we do. You have to say that too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] But now on a very important topic – this has been discussed again and again this morning – on the subject of work. Nearly 11 percent of all EU citizens are currently unemployed, and in Austria it is already far from the 300,000 people. The trend is rising, we all know that. However, international competitive pressure and the globalisation of the economy demand a new type of worker: flexible, mobile, qualified and dynamic. The social network also becomes thinner, conflicts are inevitable, despite the magical magic word flexibilization. In addition, over the last decades, a change in the quality of work has taken place. According to a 1995 study by the Fessel Institute, the people – mothers, fathers – in Austria say that family and partnership are a priority, that is, 91 percent express themselves. Second, 85 percent of the health sector is in employment, and third, 47 percent are employed and employed; lastly, the figure was 51 percent in 1987. The desire for more leisure time has now reached 35 percent; In 1987 it was still 26 percent who voted for it. The consequence of this is – we really have to see the practice – that today work is considered as free, meaningful and the well-being of individual and society-promoting activity, as far as possible accessible to all in society. There, I believe, the legislator is calling for the necessary framework for redistributing towards more self-determination rather than providing foreign determination. This must range from the possibility of annual contracts for the reduction of seasonal unemployment to the creation of qualified, flexible part-time jobs to the tax relief of the product labour. We must also not allow old systems to cause the loss of work on low-cost countries. For example, the ban on night work for women, which has meant that over the last few years it has lost or could not be accepted. I would just like to remind you of the company Suchard in Vorarlberg or Philips in the region of Germany, where 20 women would have got a job on the spot if this law had already been repealed. I would just like to mention that, for example, in the field of health care, there is no cock at all, but those are mostly women's jobs there. Or I also mention the field of teleworking, which we still frighten, because we still have the magical word "cheap homework" in our mind. We also need to think here – more than ever – and subsequently implement them. I believe that in this, the third, millennium, the world of work, the economy and the private will have to experience a change in values, a redistribution. Employment will become a central means of distribution in this process, with, of course, the maintenance and expansion of the number of full-time jobs being our aim. However, I would like to stress once again that models, which are of course also discussed by the trade union, such as elastic working hours, bandwidth models, extension of the smooth-time regulation, time accounts, mobile time and so on, must be negotiated. It must also be done in the area where it is determined when I am a worker or a worker of my 40 hours – if I am fully employed – and when I have to do my overtime. Of course, this is not feasible in all sectors. That's clear. But this model is desired by very, very many workers. Four days of work, three days off: That's not a terrible thing! In recent times, many women have come to me, saying: I would like to do my part-time work of four hours a day for another time, so that I can be at home with my child on Friday or Monday, just to give an example. [[Abg. Silhavy: The 4/3-day models are usually not over the weekend!]] Dear Heidrun! You too have gone in this direction! I think that would be a possible way. I said not for all industries. But I believe in that, and I am also convinced that it is continuing in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we make our economic location Austria competitive, it remains a top-class workplace location. Finally, I would like to make another amendment tabled by Mrs Reitsamer and Dr Feuerstein, which is intended to clarify the situation. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34011	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34036	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni! I do not have a taferl today, but not because I have concerns that there will again be two typical errors which I have unfortunately overlooked, but I do not do so, Mr Parnigoni, because I do not wish to give the journalists the opportunity to sidetrack from the really serious deterioration that this structural adjustment law entails. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Painful!]] It seems that it is important for the Austrian media to mention that two typical errors have occurred, but the serious deteriorations will remain discreet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Taferl report has been about deterioration for the Austrian families, and now we are in the event of deterioration in the Austrian social system, which the Federal Minister simply wants to talk away. He claims that we still have a model social system which will not be affected and that there will be no deterioration in the lower incomes. It also wants to say that this Structural Adjustment Act is intended to improve the safety of meeting. This has not yet been done, ladies and gentlemen, and this structural adjustment law is even more likely to strengthen this trend. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He even claimed that the opposition did not even criticize it!]] No, so please, it's not like that. The opposition – and this has been noted today – is agreed in the criticism of this structural adjustment law, because it also undermines legal certainty, because it requires an additional effort to implement it and because there will be incisive, exorbitant deterioration for women, which means a step back in the desired equal opportunities. If Mr Oellinger speaks of the "end of Austrian social legislation", although the liberals of this package do not feel balanced and our social spokesperson chief in the Social Committee has spoken of a "new cold in the Austrian social system", then it is not possible to vote what Mr Bundesminister says, namely that there would have been no criticism of the opposition. But, of course, the Federal Minister and his assistant, Mr. Feurstein, are trying together to bring the massive criticism of the opposition parties to the table. And if you, Mr Feurstein, are the only excuse for the deterioration in women's measures, that the basis for child rearing is raised – and you said that in the Committee, Mr Feurstein – I think this is really very poor. They are really a good helper for the Federal Minister to continue to bring the Austrians behind the light. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are disadvantages for women or special disadvantages for women in this package through the new rules in the field of early retirement. There is a wrong steering effect through the bonus malus system for older workers, and many women will be led into indebted unemployment. And, Mr President, this has not been mentioned at all: There will be a deterioration in the number of women who receive several children at short intervals in a row, because they then have no unemployment claim at all, through § 15 unemployment law and the time limit solution that will be reached there with the three years. So, if these aren't deterioration, I really don't understand you anymore! [[Abg. Kiermaier: Why?]] If the Federal Minister has assured the Committee that he does not believe in a real deterioration in the situation for women by this system, then I must tell him that even the deterioration in the area of care payments will mainly affect women. There is an ever-increasing proportion of women with increasing age, and the financial constraints will increase the number of women. But also the family care staff consists of women, and they are now "dried" by suspending the care allowance after the second hospital day. These are really exorbitant deteriorations in this area! Except for karenz money. That is where the Federal Minister says that we still have the best regulation in Austria – despite deterioration. Yes, as far as the duration is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, but not with regard to the amount of the care allowance. And you know very well that the crux is the thing that so few men in Austria are going in Karenz, that young families cannot afford to take such serious income losses. And there are again the women on whose back the mistakes of the past are to be corrected. After all, you have been totally sparse in the corresponding measures in the field of childcare, and you are pushing the responsibility back and forth between the Ministry of Women and the Ministry of Family Affairs. But you too, Mr Federal Minister, are in the end responsible for certain areas here, and I note that, in accordance with my colleague Kier, you seem to forget that there is a need for supervision for children. I can only take this as an disturbed relationship to the perception of the child's well-being. We liberals here in Parliament – at least in the last five years – are constantly calling for measures to improve childcare. Even these 600 million schillings, which are now being poured out, make the mistakes that have happened in the past not so quickly correctable. You, Mr Federal Minister, are undoubtedly responsible for certain areas, even if you are always happy to push this aside, for example in the area of day-mothers. You are not responsible for the fact that there is no comprehensive offer, you are not responsible for regulated training, but you are very likely to be responsible for the recognition of the mother-in-law as a profession. As far as this is concerned, we have already made a request in 1992 because this would be quite easy to regulate, namely that of § 4 para. 3 Z 3 the day's mothers or dayfathers are equal to the self-employed teachers. Nothing has happened in this regard so far, and you are responsible, Minister of State. In the wider sense, they are also responsible for farm kindergartens – as a measure of active labour market promotion policy. We liberals have also requested support from their predecessors in 1992 for farm kindergartens from the public. He has declared himself not responsible and has transferred it to the Ministry of Family Affairs. There, of course, it has also been rejected. But now your party colleague, Mr Federal Minister, Mrs Mertel, is also calling for the promotion of farm kindergartens. It seems a rethinking has taken place. I could imagine that from your point of view, the EU Social Fund is being used as a means of financing it. You are responsible for this, and you have agreed, Federal Minister, in answer to a question to my colleague, Madl, that there is very much money in your department for "labour market policy women's promotion". Call that. This, although, of course, it is very important for the children to be cared for accordingly. You've budgeted amounts here that I can't list in detail, but you'll know that. You have also confirmed to me in an answer to a question that you are, in principle, very likely for binding directives in the field of day-mothers, for comprehensive expansion, for better financial provision of support organisations. Yes, Minister of State, what prevents Would you like to take the initiative, at least in the areas in which you are responsible? Push You do not always have the responsibility to go back and forth to the countries or between the Ministries, otherwise I would simply have to give you pure ideology on this issue. Because a corresponding measure to reduce the care allowance – with which we do not agree – would be the day's mothers, because they are the second best solution for child care – after the care of their own parents, which is quite clear. I would, however, like to come to the apprentices very briefly. In this area, Mr Nürnberger has seen the problem only and alone in the fact that probably this autumn not all apprentices will be accommodated. If he's serious about this, he's not only a repeater, he's also a covert. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For, I believe, we are already in agreement, as we are sitting here, that the problems are much more complex and are much deeper. But the reason for his behavior will probably be that one does not want to admit the mistakes made, especially not in the public. And if one here has made the accusation to our clubman Haider that he had not trained apprentices, then I can say that I will not be able to make this accusation. My husband and I have been training apprentices in trade for 31 years. It was originally always two to three apprentices that we hired. Now we have one more, and from next year we will not do it at all. [[Abg. Kiermaier: What do you think we do?! Do you think we're not training apprentices?]] Sure, but did you look at where the declines in apprenticeship training are mainly? – For small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in commerce, and I want to tell you now why this is the case with us. It's just not commercial anymore. It is simply no longer in the calculation that you train apprentices because, for example, if a day of schooling lasts longer than the working day, the apprentices get a time allowance for time beyond that. There is no type of financial incentive or a fee for the entrepreneurship of the training it provides. And do you know what it looks like in practice with us? – It is simply economic for the time when it is necessary in our shops to recruit trained part-time workers for peak periods, part-time workers. This is double economic: You don't need to train them anymore, and they're available when we need them, which is unfortunately not what the apprentice is. [[Abg. Far from it: It's out there!]] No, not at all! But the entrepreneur must live on what he earned at the end of the year. And you always forget that because you come from the secure areas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you one thing: If you really want to get under control of the apprenticeship problem, you have to deal with the request of the liberals that has been made today. I really ask you to do so, because the Austrian economy will need well-trained professionals in the future, especially through the increased competition it is now subject to, and it is really high time to turn the wheel around here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34156	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34178	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About three weeks ago, a meeting of the European Union Social Ministers took place in Brussels. What was the point of this meeting, among other things? – The aim was to lay down the minimum entitlement to three months' leave allowance across the EU. You hear and marvel: for three months! And today we are discussing the fact that we are going down from a standard of two years to one and a half, and this triggers excitement and resentment! I therefore believe that it is sometimes quite useful and useful to look beyond our own garden fence into the neighborhood, in order to re-establish the dimensions and to realize that in Austria we have a social state, a social security system, in order to be envied in most European countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This also applies to the care system. And if the colleague Haidlmayr – with all due respect! – here says: Since you brought us disabled people in 1993 some improvements with the care money – 18 billion schillings were anyway – but these few improvements have now taken us away two to three times again!, then I don't know what law it is talking about – with all the understanding of oppositional reflexes! Let me therefore make three very clear points: With this novel of the Care Money Act, we do not intervene in any existing claims. In other words, it is simply not true when Mrs Haidlmayr says: They take us away two to three times. – Existing claims are not affected. Second clarification: We are stabilizing this level at the 1995 level. Third clarification: In 29 out of 30 European countries, one could be happy to discuss a novel with slight corrections as we have done today. There is no such system at all! And that must be noted once again in a debate like this in order to give the truth the honor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are we talking about in detail about these changes? – It is about reducing the claim from 2 665 S to 2 000 S at the level of care. And once again, to clarify this: This applies only to those who come to this stage in the future. Anyone who currently has a care allowance of Stage 1 will continue to receive his 2 665 S. And it is quite right to change something about it. If you look closely at this, you can see that the hourly rates in the care allowance level 1 are much cheaper than those in the higher areas. What else do we change? – In future, someone who is in a hospital in a hospital will no longer be entitled to care allowance. I should like to point out that we agreed to this measure in September last year with the representatives of the disabled organisations. These representatives voted in favour! They too have seen: If a person is entitled to care money, then this money should rest as long as he is hospitalized. This is done with the approval of the disabled organisations, ladies and gentlemen. Something else is important in this context, and Mrs Haller has misrepresented this: If a person employs a caregiver to conclude a service contract with a caregiver, this restriction does not apply. In other words, in this case, the care allowance will continue to be paid during the stationary stay in a hospital. And there's also an improvement. This is an improvement that many of you have been calling for over and over again for years. You know: At present, the entitlement to care allowance is limited to the age limit of at least three years. In future, if the child is less than three years old, you will be able to pay the care allowance in case of social hardship. So that means summa summarum: Here we have a change of law, with which someone who is an disabled speaker naturally has no joy. But she's reasonable, she's acceptable, she's argumentable, and she's eligible. And we thus ensure this system of care provision at an internationally exemplary level. And another comment before I conclude: Mrs Haidlmayr also meant that there were no initiatives by this legislator and this ministry to bring people with disabilities more into employment than before. I should like to point out that we have launched an international model with the so-called work assistants throughout Austria. This is a model which was called for not least on the occasion of a survey on people with disabilities organised by the Greens. We have implemented this and we are implementing it. It means that in the countries a kind of coach, a caretaker, intensively deals with the disabled, for example, with problems in the workplace and plays a kind of fire brigade. Such models have so far proved very well in different federal states. This model of work assistance is implemented across the board. We're already in the middle of it. What is still important – in this context, be it mentioned – is: There is money from the European Social Fund, there is money in it from Brussels. As it is to be said, over the next three years, we will be able to invest 1.3 billion schilling in funds from the European Social Fund in the field of disability. There would be a lot more to say. There is not a standstill in the field of disability policy either! For example, we signed a petition aimed at creating a law on equality. We will make a great effort to pursue this ambitious, ambitious goal, which reads as follows: Disabled people must also have the opportunity to participate in social life as comprehensively as possible. – We Social Democrats will make our contribution to achieving this objective!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34266	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34287	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not really want to comment on the basic problem of apprenticeship training today, although this is a very close subject to me. But after so many colleagues have already spoken about this, for example the colleague Haller just before, I would also like to make a few points here. Mr Nürnberger! The establishment of state-funded teaching workshops will ultimately not be able to address the problem of apprenticeship training in Austria. This problem is far too complex. The basic problem, the cost of apprenticeship training, has already been pointed out by Mr Haller and my colleague, Mr Peter. Indeed, we need a fundamental, comprehensive reform of the vocational training law. We must finally create more flexible conditions. We need equality between apprentices and other apprentices in order to reduce the additional wage costs for apprentices. I do not think that apprentices are basically underpaid. You know, I also have a daughter who entered the dual education system after the AHS, and she gets, taking into account the time she spends in the vocational school, about 8,000 s a month. I do not think that the problem is a question of income. I believe that apprenticeship training must become more attractive, I believe that we must create a genuine permissiveness, and I also believe that, in any case, we need more flexible regulations in the field of apprenticeship, in the field of vocational schooling and, of course, in the field of service rights among our vocational teachers. Mr Dolinschek! I have seen many positive approaches in your application. I would like to support some of them. But there are also approaches in this, of which I believe that they could ultimately have a counterproductive impact on apprenticeship training as a whole. I think there will be a need for wide-ranging discussions on this. Mr Sozialminister! In principle, I welcome the support of apprenticeships for girls in so-called men's domains with 4,000 s. But this 4,000 s support will not solve the problem of women in the working world either. I ask you: In the present situation, where do we take the certainty that these trained girls will eventually also have a real chance of a job in the economy? – A lot of conscious work will be necessary to ensure that these subsidized teaching institutions do not have a counterproductive impact on the girls in their position in the establishments. I believe, in particular, that the search for regulation, this mandatory requirement from a wide range of requirements to mandatory rooms, will have a counterproductive effect on the increase in women's jobs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But now I would like to come to my real focus. I wanted to work out the problems of women caused by this Structural Adjustment Act once again. Mrs Reitsamer! I'll give you the right. The budgetary consolidation measures are hard and necessary, but socially balanced and they are certainly not influenced by the will of design. On the contrary: They are very discriminatory in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen! The accounting of child care periods does not guarantee a complete insurance course for women. It will be more necessary than to focus only on the problems of small workers, who will eventually be placed to a large extent of women. Mr Sozialminister! Unfortunately, I have not been able to develop a particularly legitimate hope by your reply to the question, because, unfortunately, proposals for solutions in this area, namely the social security of women, are not in sight. Unfortunately, the statements of intent of the coalition parties and the statements made by their politicians are, in fact, far apart when considering political reality. Let us return to the creation of women's jobs. We know that the rate of unemployed women is particularly high, we know that women are longer unemployed, and of course we also know that their unemployment support is much lower than that of men. And despite your knowledge of this, you've decided a woman-discriminatory bonus malus system. And Mrs Hostasch, knowing the discriminatory effect of this provision, has agreed. Let's go one step further: Mrs Mertel, for example, said in an APA issue that she found it impossible and particularly unfair to buy back insurance periods for academics already in work. – She too will probably agree to this law today. Let's continue towards night work ban for women. Mr Steibl of the ÖVP has already spoken about this. For many women, this is actually a question of the workplace. Mr Sozialminister, if you please – I quote here from an article of the "Presse" of 15. 4. – in the way you say: It is important for entrepreneurs to understand that night work is expensive, and if the economy so vehemently advocates a rapid abolition of the ban on night work for women, it must also accept the necessary measures! I would simply like to read to you a short passage from a reader's letter written by a former professional colleague of yours, a travel agent of the ÖBBB, for whom this ban on night work does not apply, of course. She's just asking the question: Why can and should men work at night and women not? It feels that this is a great inequality and believes that this certainly does not serve the protection of workers. And she asks: What entrepreneurs can afford to include women on such curious and exorbitant economic conditions for night work? She likes to work at night, and she can imagine that many women would work at night if only they could. – Forward-looking protection provisions in this area will once again have an impact on women's disadvantages. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, in these laws – Mrs Haller has pointed out – there is of course still a lot of anti-female, anti-female provisions. I'll just put them together for a short while: In the Unemployment Insurance Act, we have at least prevented women with minor employment in their employers from leaving their social security schemes during their leave. And the problem of health insurance for these women has also been resolved here. I could, in principle, approach this amendment tabled by Mrs Reitsamer if it were not to be contained in this overall complex of a woman-discriminatory and, ultimately, any reform-absorbing structural law. Of course, we have this karenz-time problem, and I think it is annoyed that Karenz's leave is still being discussed here in this debate - only another clear sign that care work, which is primarily done by women, is still of no importance. Mr Sozialminister! I would like to remind you here once again of a request that has been decided by a majority in this House. This request called for the term "carence leave" to be replaced by the term "carence period". I think you could send at least one impulse here. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We do not expect any social changes in the de facto reduction in this time of leave. There is a lack of all the framework conditions that would in principle enable a real part of the karenz period, for example, starting with the rigid, too short reporting periods for the karenz period. In addition, there are even different long reporting periods for men and women. The question of income differences is of course also still in the room. However, there are no more recent ideas, as Mr Kier, for example, has already presented here, which would allow a real time-sharing between men and women during the karenz period, in order to at least reduce the problem of re-entry for women. We have a problem in the area of emergency aid, where you have added additional bureaucratic obstacles and where the second half of the year is now to depend on the duration of insurance – something that will have a negative impact on young women, especially those who are in training. And there is an operating aid law that provides for only 18 months – that is, one and a half years – for female entrepreneurs without an alternative. This treats the self-employed woman completely different from the other women. Mr Mertel has already drawn attention to the problem of buying-in periods of insurance. It's going to be very expensive for women. Women are particularly affected. About 80 per cent of those who need to be bought are women. The calculation is based on the maximum basis of assessment, which women reach far less frequently than men. In the end, women, in particular the academics, on average, deserve only a salary obtained by men who may have the completion of a middle-level vocational school. The fact that the officials are even excluded from this scheme is nothing new in view of the current discussion and should only be noted here as a supplement. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that, when these laws came to pass, a cooperation of the opposition parties, a constructive participation of the opposition parties from the outset was unwanted and also made impossible, Volker Kier has already made it clear here clearly. However, I am increasingly convinced that this also applies to some women in the coalition parties who, like the opposition here, are being downgraded to part of this voting machine, this voting party. How else could my colleague Mr Mertel agree with a system that she herself feels is deeply unfair and non-profit-making? . I believe that this must be a special problem for many women here in the government parties. I believe that the opposition parties have at least the advantage of finally saying no. In principle, the attitude of the ÖVP does not surprise me to this extent because its neoconservative attitude is becoming increasingly evident. But we also have SPÖ, which has been active in the election campaign for women, but above all we also have here a woman minister, a SPÖ woman minister, who seems to have fallen into a "dorn sleep" because she no longer expresses herself to all these women-discriminatory measures. I say to you that your tolerance and your silence must be regarded by us women as consent, and I really regret that the Minister for Women sends an additional signal that the implementation of the only formal equality of women in social reality in Austria is not meant very honestly and does not force it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34409	Mr Dr. Drinkl, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, has been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34430	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria offers its citizens the highest social standard worldwide. Despite the problems we know, we are still a country with one of the lowest unemployment rates, and we are also among the most price stable countries in the EU. One could therefore rightly ask the question – it was also asked –: What do we need a savings package for if we're doing so well anyway? But if you look more closely, you can see that this system has become fragile. You read more and more in the media, which many of us have feared for a long time: "Our pension system can no longer be financed," says Bernd Marin in the "Small Newspaper" in February of this year. The generation contract is in danger, and the boys could no longer hope to achieve any pension that is only half equal to today's standard. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who says that?]] That is why, I would like to tell you, the elections in autumn were so important: to create the conditions for a change in course; and this change in course was carried out and enforced by us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who said that?]] Read it! I can tell you later. The next few years are indeed facing great challenges. The main problems are known: the rising unemployment, the constantly changing age structure and, ultimately, the safeguarding of our social system, the financing of this system. This social package here today is therefore an important step in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need dedicated employment programmes to address the problem of unemployment. It is not to manage unemployment, but to create work that is to say, because without jobs there is no social security! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] New ideas must be developed in this context. We need to be flexible and creative. We have to stop shaving about a comb. I am aware of the problem of working time: It is no longer enough today to have a working time law for all industries, for the host industry as well as for the shift industry, for the construction workers as well as for the trade workers. We must have the courage to approach the matter flexibly and take account of industry needs. I would also like to say a word on the subject of apprenticeship training. In the course of apprenticeship training today, there is not only the problem of costs, but also bureaucratic obstacles that prevent many firms from taking up apprentices, and about which these establishments are also annoyed. I would just like to give you one example: We have tried – your efforts, Mr Minister – to give girls in traditional men's professions a chance. We tried this and said: Baker – this is an ideal profession for girls. Only: A girl can only start at 5 o'clock in the morning, a boy at 4 o'clock. At 5 o'clock in the morning a girl can only learn to count, because the operation in the bakery is usually already completed. We must meet the firms and the employees with greater confidence, as it is often also in the interests of workers to contribute more creatively, more flexiblely. The worker shall decide when and how to perform his work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So: Get away with the distrust, to the self-responsibility of the powerful citizen! I even think it is time to stress the responsibility of the individual again in social policy. Many see the state as a kind of self - service shop, where the largest one is the one that manages to get out the most cheaply. Perhaps we have been partly involved in this thinking. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I think he's with the wrong party!]] I'll come back to that. Not the patient, but the chief physician often decides whether the patient is healthy and can go back to work; not by the father of the family, but by the public hand today is expected to build a roof above the head. I remember the meeting at the labour market service last Thursday: A 31-year-old who was offered two works, but whom he had rejected as unreasonable, said: The labour market service is supposed to provide me with a job, you're here for it! I do not think it can be that the State is responsible for everything and everyone. We must bring people back to taking responsibility for themselves and for their families, and the state should jump in where the individual cannot help himself because of his age, his health, but also because of a decent job. Christian Ortner in the "Economics Week" has called the present savings package, as I mean, rightly the entry into the exit from the pocket money company. – A society, as it had been valid in Sweden for many years, a society that reduces almost all the risks of life to the citizen, but has taken more and more away from his income. I think he'll hit the nail on his head. You probably know this example: If a man is hungry, give him a fish. The next day he'll be back, and you'll give him a fish again. That's how he comes every day, and that's how I make dependencies. It is better to teach him fishing so that he can take care of himself in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger from the Green Group – unfortunately he is not in the room – spoke at the Committee meeting and also here today in the present clear presentation of one – I hope I will bring it together – "Social Abuse Prevention Act". [[Abg. Oils: Here!]] It should be borne in mind that some restrictive measures would indeed have been avoidable if only those social benefits were to be claimed which actually need them. It must not be the stupid one who adheres to the rules of the game. However, under the circumstances, more stringent provisions such as in the unemployment insurance law and in other areas are unfortunately necessary. I would also like to focus briefly on Mrs Haidlmayr's proposal to increase the compensatory tax in the field of the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons to an average earnings. I admit that we must work together to find employment opportunities for disabled people in order to integrate these disabled people into the labour process and thus into society, but to create a new penalty. You are not a single new job in this area! – That must also be held. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Minister! I have already pointed out at the Committee's meeting that in addition to the material provisions, formal provisions have also, above all, been extended to the ASVG. I mean the new reporting rules. I also pointed out at the time that I was seeing a potential for conflict between employers and workers. A baker has given me these two briefs You each have seven pages, and here is a case that has arisen from a distrust of social security against the service provider. [[the speaker shows them]] It is about the following: The local health insurance fund requires that contributions for night work supplements be paid even during the apprenticeship's vocational schooling. This case is quite disputed by labour law, nevertheless: The rulings condemn him to pay in the sum of 400 S – we consider the administrative burden: The procedure lasted for a year – 400 S! I come to the conclusion. The provisions on social rights on the debate are an important contribution to ensuring our social network. We must stop talking about a social network on a delivery basis, for which our children will pay the bill. The first step is being taken today. If we further succeed in bringing our citizens more self-responsibilities for our joint business welfare state of Austria, instead of working on the "day fish", we can also achieve our goal of securing the welfare state in the future – as I am sure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34551	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34573	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dobar, then! It is three themes that I would like to address here in a very short time – I hope to gain your attention. [[Federal Minister Hums talks to Abg. Böhacker.]] I hope that I too will receive the attention of the Federal Minister, because he is essentially concerned with it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Franz Hums, the Federal Minister, is the one who is the biggest thorn in my mind, for the Minister of State is sparse! The Federal Minister does not comply with his supervisory obligations! The Federal Minister invests millions in studies that he then has available as the basis for a decision-making – and this is something that is exceptional. It is not common for one to deal so intensively and precisely with a decision-making process. – It was before your time, Federal Minister Hums, it was your predecessor who invested the money, but today you have to represent it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] It's about the colporteurs – it's been around them more often today; Mr. Federal Minister, I can't spare you this. As a citizen, I do not want the Minister to receive a letter, as all the representatives of the Social Committee have received it, from Hans Digand, and then put their heads in the sand, trying to cover up for years. You, Federal Minister, are the highest supervisory body of the regional health insurance fund, and the local health insurance fund has for years been relinquishing billions by the fact that it does not require media print at Hans Digand and also some friends, which would be her right. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Aliens hostile!]] It does not take account of the fact that the Administrative Court has confirmed your notice stating that colporteurs are contractors and not contractors. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Skill Do you sleep quietly when you cut your income in times of a savings package, but do you give up on billions of Hans Digand and friends? Skill You're really sleeping well? Not me! I would prefer the money of the media print in the budget pot to those grotesques who need to save themselves from the mouths of karenz students, single teachers, students. There, Minister of State, you really stop having fun! This kneefall, which does not make you personally, but the colleagues of the government coalition in front of Hans Digand, is not correct. Mr. Digand once wrote a letter, and he said: It's all different. It's different. It's different. You have a right step in the Structural Adjustment Act. We fully accept this correct step of supplementing the legal presumption. Why should it continue to be that a colporteur – usually foreigners – has to prove, by means of a procedure – which one has drawn from 1989 to 1995 – that he is a servant according to the definition of § 4 ASVG that he is economically and personally dependent on his employer? – It is your laws that are disregarded. You put your head in the sand and you like it? And you, ladies and gentlemen, are claping and standing up at the appropriate moment? Do you still have a little honor in your body, or is the "Kronen Zeitung" going over everything? – Thinking You'll have to go over it once in a while! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Digand writes a letter – and everything is different, the minister is delicate, he doesn't notice his own messages – that's a 60-page notice that had the Hummel study as a basis. This notice is an excellent work, because the Administrative Court has confirmed this notice. And you're pretending to be nothing. If you haven't finally come up with a light that you can't get the citizens of this country where it goes, and multi-multiplilars like Hans Digand – in return for others too – simply get to their right through a letter, ladies and gentlemen, you absolutely don't deserve the word "social" in connection with "democratic" on the left-hand side of this house. The Austrian People's Party is well known for the fact that it usually makes kneelfalls before economic operators and economic bosses. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is! I believe that the citizens of this country have the right to know that there are two measures here. That also helps stupid looking and pretending to know nothing, nothing. It also helps nothing to look affected, but it only helps to act. Let us not, ladies and gentlemen, like that the "Kronen Zeitung" dictates what is happening here in this House. We are the elected representatives of the people, we make laws – not Hans Digand! [[Accompaniment with the Greens and the Liberal Forum as well as the Abg. May. Posch.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not me or a colleague or a colleague from the Green Group who wrote the following sentence: We were also told from a very well-known page that in the event that their request for liberation – namely the exception for colporteurs – would not have been met by a media campaign against the entire savings package, the daily newspapers mentioned – "New Kronen Newspaper", "Kurier" – were closed. – That’s the truth! The President of the Association for Media Culture, Dr Herbert Kohlmaier, wrote this sentence, and I think that he says more with this sentence than all the words I make here. Shame, ladies and gentlemen, if you go to the knees due to letters from publishers, if it is so that the public opinionists, those who have the opportunity to print newspapers, count more than all politicians! – This is not “free mandate”, and that is not my understanding of it! [[Congratulation with the greens and congratulations of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister not only disappointed those who still have faith in democracy, faith in parliamentarianism, faith in our own job here, he also disappointed the confidence of pregnant women whose life planning is brutally destroyed by you. The confidence of those women who are pregnant today will be given a child who has focused their life-planning on taking advantage of the legal possibilities, namely the time for their child and a two-year leave – with "duration" has nothing to do with it anyway – will be completely misused by you in your proposals. A pregnant woman today cannot count on the fact that what you believe to be able to trust is that laws in this republic have served as the basis of life in the planning of their lives. And I think that – now as a woman – is incredible. What would it cost if you tried not to disappoint this trust, but simply to say: It is a measure that hurts – you can be sure that I disagree with this measure – but let us at least look at those who knew nothing about it and trusted in the laws. Let us look at the date of entry into force in such a way that at least those who are pregnant today are not affected by these tough regulations. That is why my colleague Karl Oellinger, as a social speaker, has prepared an amendment which we are presenting today, the only one to this chapter. I'll read it right away. Because it is a matter of respecting the principle of trust. Women in this society, where it is only possible, are not properly appreciated in their trust. It is perhaps not a coincidence that the Minister of Trust, I think, is also a man who breaks this trust. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was a Freud's promise!]] It may be that, if a lady were in your place, at least for this point she would have more sense, because she could be a potentially theoretically affected person, she could be a mother. At most, you have the privilege of becoming a father. That is why I would like to read the amendment tabled by Mr Öllinger: [[Quoted print version removed]] It would only be a minimal step to acknowledge that women and men, future parents, are also thinking something about planning a family. They should support this and not hinder it. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall come to the third part, which has to do with Mr Sozialminister Hums: How are foreign workers and foreign citizens who live in Austria affected by this consolidation package? The legal deterioration of the situation of foreign citizens by the savings package and the resulting new forms of discrimination are really diverse. I have to tell you: For years now I have been dealing with foreign fellow citizens and their problems in Austria. When I first heard about your intentions, I just couldn't believe it. I could not believe that you are essentially not about saving money – money is not too much saved there, I mean – but people want to save you, people who do not have Austrian citizenship, but who live here. We want to save people by withdrawing from them the legal basis for their stay in our country through the measures contained in this law. I can list you on the point where discrimination is taking place. Because these points, which are included, are anti-integration. I have personally heard from you, also from Mr. Dr. One, even from the Federal Chancellor – one would not believe it, but he also occasionally deals with the situation of foreign workers in Austria – the credible insurance, they are about our long-term guest workers, they are about those who already live here. They do not want to discriminate against foreigners who are integrated here, who live here with their families, and they simply want to take care of the move. I too want to regulate the move; of course. It would not be too reasonable a political view if one thought that these things could be left to the course of history and events. It is our responsibility as politicians that we consider our rules. But what you're doing here has nothing to do with drawing rules. This is a policy which, if formulated very hard, will meet the following guiding principle: Get out with foreigners! And that hurts and hurts me. I hope you have thought about this, Mr Federal Minister, in the past and are aware of what that means. I've listed four pages of points. One of these is the change to the unemployment law. You know very well that the larger calculation period, which is decided here, affects the increase in the base for unemployment benefit from six months to one year, particularly the unemployed working in seasonal sectors. They also know much better than I do that this is particularly true of foreign unemployed people, 55 percent of whom are employed in seasonal sectors. And you also know very well that proof of income as the basis of life for the extension of residence permits is existential. Here are restrictions which, for me, represent a really unwholesome interplay between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior: If a foreigner becomes unemployed, then in future he will only be entitled to these unemployed until the last day of his valid residence permit. After that it is out of it, then there is no extension, for with it the person concerned has no basis of life. It is completely irrelevant whether the person concerned lives here for three years or 15 or 20 years. That is not what this law takes into account. What's so outrageous about me is that you know all of this. They know very well that when they work, people who have all paid here, all of them – and this is a next example of these anti-foreign measures in the consolidation package – will be affected, as will the full contributions to FLAF as well as Austrian employees. But you don't have a genius to say: However, children of foreigners living abroad do not receive this benefit, for which every individual worker comes up. I admit that this saves a little bit. But are you aware that this will create a completely different pressure that you will be faced with, namely the pressure on family integration, the pressure to seek and have to bring the children back, because otherwise you can't get back the money you pay in the FLAF? The pressure on this migration will rise, but there will be no places in the family rate. The problems arising therefrom are preprogrammed. They're preprogrammed, and they're going to enter as fast as you can't even see. I personally and well-known lawyers consider provisions such as these to be unconstitutional. It can't be – and that's not only about family aid, it's also about the family allowance for unemployment benefit – that I don't have anything to do with international legal standards in Austria. What have we maintained that the international agreement on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination applies to us as well? – Yes, it applies, but it is obvious that it is macularity, because simple legal regulations are decided against this spirit. This cannot really be in harmony with your social soul either. Ladies and gentlemen! These anti-foreign provisions in the so-called Structural Adjustment Act also have a very special aspect, which perhaps has not yet become aware of some of the colleagues here. There's something in Austria that you can't say otherwise than a form of "slavery" – under quotation marks. A foreigner who has an employment permit in Austria does not actually have it itself, but his employer has it. The service provider has, as it were, 100 percent of these people, their labour force and their use. One is somehow tied to one’s minister and to one’s workplace in the truest sense of the word. The fact that we are also linked to any bad working conditions, to poor pay, is something that you should think of as a trade unionist, as a very socially-seen person. I know many social democrats, especially trade unionists who have often criticized this. But what do you do now? – In times when repression is becoming stronger and stronger – and this is the result of this consolidation package; the individual is intimidated, who says: for God's sake, belt tighter, everyone has to make a contribution – it is particularly favourable to those groups that do not have lobbyists and who cannot change laws through a letter, so nothing to make you worse. If you believe that we Greens accept this provision that the time of slavery in the form of employment permit is simply doubled, without words, then you are mistaken! When this right to work was introduced in 1990, I was not yet in the National Council, but the Greens welcomed this as a step towards greater autonomy and greater flexibility on the labour market. The Social Committee, when the end of this slavery in the form of dependence has been introduced, is based on the following sentence – in the Committee's report you can read it –: Experience with the strict attachment of foreigners to the workplace and thus to a particular employer has shown that foreigners are forced to maintain employment even under the worst wage and working conditions. – That's why you introduced it. Today, where the "Kronen-Zeitung" or some others only have to threaten that they will conduct a campaign against the consolidation package, you believe that you can silently and secretly push it in. You no longer take seriously what you said in 1990. And the Committee's report does not determine the opposition parties, but that was the spirit that ruled throughout the committee at that time. But now you're not taking this seriously anymore. Mr Sozialminister! I can no longer take you seriously in your social attitude if you accept with these proposals, which the Members of the Government seem to be completely uncommented only by standing up from the place in a certain moment, with a dash to destroy all that has been done in 1990. The world is turning further; our all-personal world. The world for foreign workers in Austria is also turning, but it is now turning so fast that the centrifugal forces will absorb it. That's in your sense. I'll throw that before you. I hope that there are some colleagues here who do not participate, because this is a dirty game at the expense of even uninformed people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That contradicts any trade union thoughts. It's not social democratic. And this is not Christian social, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34700	The amendment previously selected has been properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Seidinger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34724	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Hums has spoken after these violent attacks by Mrs Stoisits and will also replicate them. I think it is necessary to respond to these allegations in the form that is required. If you are as pointed in the vote as you are, Mrs Colleague, then you must be answered in an instant. I think that this would sometimes violate the good rules of the state of affairs and the morals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, let me put an amendment to it in the first place: [[Quoted print version removed]] A statement of reasons has already been given by Mrs Hostasch, so I can only make this request. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me mention some of the points of the Structural Adjustment Act, Social and Budget here. I do not need to repeat why the budget needs to be consolidated, I do not need to explain the need for consolidation and that we are concerned about the quality and quantity of the Austrian economic location and the need to maintain it, of course, also about the convergence criteria for participation in economic and monetary union, but I believe it is important to ensure the economic location and jobs in Austria. We have repeatedly heard reports from other countries over the last few days and weeks, from countries with high social standards that have to make enormous restrictions. For example, the Federal Republic of Germany intends to cut 50 billion mark – that is more than 350 billion schilling. Sweden has been reduced by 48 billion Schilling, Great Britain 65 billion Schilling, Italy converted 66 billion Schilling. This shows that this is not an Austrian phenomenon and it is not an Austrian phenomenon, but it simply occurs throughout Western Europe. I do not want to talk about what happened in France last year in this sector. If it has always been stated here in the explanatory statement that the protection of jobs and the creditworthiness of Austria are in the foreground, then this priority has to be applied to everything, because only if we have jobs, the economy is secure, can we meet all the other concerns that enable us to maintain social standards. Although it is repeatedly pointed out – which is doubted by the opposition – that these structural adjustments are socially balanced and that all groups of the population are hit with the exception of the socially weak, we stand behind them. We are also against it when we say that it is one of our top objectives to combat unemployment. But let me just say something about the pensions. Development, not only in the material field, over the last 40 years is enormous. In 1959 we had a total of 875 447 pensioners in Austria, at the end of 1995 there were 1,840 047. I do not need to explain why there is this rapid development in the field of pensioners and pensioners, because we have not succeeded in keeping the gross domestic product and also the budgetary development to the same degree. But one thing, I think, we have to push out again and again – that was before the 17th. After these negotiations have been concluded, it can be said and said on December: There are no reductions in existing pensions and no intervention in these rights, even if there are various considerations in this package, to make it more attractive, for example, for a later retirement. We know that a reduction in the federal grant in the area of various types of pension insurance is necessary, because the coverage of some pension insurance areas is also quite different. The pensioners have absolutely no pleasure in ensuring that there are only compensatory allowances for pensioners in 1997, for single 2 000 S and for married 3 000 S, and that there will be no general adjustment of pensions. But I think that if you make it clear that everyone is making a contribution, you can understand it. When we talk about the harmonisation of pensions again and again, I say, yes, the pension systems have evolved so far that it is high time to bring them together in some form. However, this can only happen if there are already approaches in the field of active references, in the area of wages and salaries, of which one can say, here the harmonisation begins, so that all systems are not to be harmonised at the time of entry into the pension with one cut – from one day to the other. And if the generation contracts on which our entire insurance system is based and the charging process should continue, then we must do everything we can to implement this package of measures, often, and I admit, with a heavy heart. Today, several reforms have been addressed in the vocational training of apprentices. Let me just say a few words: The cost of public service costs to this group is very low compared to the cost of training others. An apprentice is worth the public hand in the year 9 000 S, an AHS student 60 000 S, a BHS student over 90 000 S and a student 150 000 S. These are relationships that we can't take so easily. At the beginning of today's debate, Deputy Haider withdrew about the Social Democrats that they had turned away from the apprentices. He was one of those who stood up and said years ago before the large state-owned operation of VOEST-ALPINE: Lock up! Locking businesses is also a means of blocking teaching workshops. Mr Haider should remember the responsibility he bears for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is possible that, in the field of labour market management, the funds will not be withdrawn, but, admittedly, they will also be increased with the help of the European Social Fund, and this is necessary because we simply need to develop new ideas, for example, in the sector of the creation of employment societies, associations, associations which, in cooperation with the AMS, can do something for our unemployed people, so that they can be reintegrated into the labour process. In conclusion: I would like to say very clearly to what has always been happening in the public over the last few weeks and months, namely an increase in health insurance contributions, and only to pensioners, because they are also causing more costs: The pensioners have paid their contributions for years and decades and may not have used these benefits so much, and now, because they may be used more often, you would like to ask them to check out again. We, as representatives of the older generation, are saying a definite no. The pensioners have made their contribution to the savings package – not only with the absence of the pension adjustment. It is a question of billions of schilling, which they have to abandon in the framework of the various pension reforms, and it must finally be concluded. We all hope that with these 1996 and 1997 budgets, we have created a good basis for us to return to a river water system in 1998, which continues to strengthen and maintain the social state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34856	The amendment made by Mr Seidinger is properly tabled and supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Hums has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34881	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment briefly on the comments made by Mrs Stoisits. In the draft submitted by us for our place of business, I cannot see a position in which we would have taken measures against foreigners who would not result from the system. Of course, I fully agree with you that foreign workers, who also pay unemployment insurance contributions here, should receive their benefits. Unfortunately, from the number of foreigners reported unemployed at the end of April, we had 36 524 foreigners who, of course, received all their benefits, and almost 13 000 foreign women who were pensioners. For the karenz leave money itself. I just want to repeat: Even after this correction, which will now be made, Austria is by far the country with the best regulations in this sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It should also be taken into account that there is still the possibility of two-year leave if the second parent is entitled to a half-year leave. You said I couldn't put myself in the mother's situation. I can still put myself in the situation of the parents, even if the time has been a little longer where I had a little child in the family myself. However, at the beginning of the discussion on the extension of the leave to two years of leave, it was called for very well and understandably precisely by women's representatives, pointing out that it is in itself reasonable and correct – women's political and family-political – that fathers also benefit from part of the karenz holiday. We have therefore not thoughtlessly and pointlessly shortened for reasons of savings, but really because of this intention to achieve a combination. Of course, a certain saving effect is associated with the failure of the father to take part in a karenz leave. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: A big one!]] Our aim, however, was that the father should take advantage of this, and I hope that we will also achieve it together and not be discriminated against for fathers to take part in this leave. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress once again that, in the context of the negotiations – although not successful so far, but I will continue to do so – I have been particularly committed to doing so and will continue to work for a special scheme for single mothers, saying that their financial basis, however, is now largely assured by the fact that they are expected to receive special emergency aid or other benefits in most cases instead of the pension fund. – That on this issue. I also believe that the time limit for births from 1. 7th of this year is reasonable and understandable, for of the 1st century. 7. Away is still given time for a year and a half. I think that should be enough. I am convinced that no woman would have made the decision otherwise if she had previously known that she had six months less right to leave for karenz. I do not think we should deal with the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to comment briefly on the exceptions to the works contracts quoted several times. The original consideration of us was, as early as last year, that we should include all contracts of work, because we believe that income should be subject to a certain amount of social security not only to a certain level, but also to the benefits of it, because that is important for both parts. That was the basic concept. This is a step which is completely new, and I am glad that this step, if it does not take place in perfection as it was originally designed, is likely to be decided here in Parliament today, because it is important that we take action in this area. However, there are already a number of exceptions in the ASVG – that is not new – especially when someone is active in the field of adult education, art and the like. It is already a provision contained in it today – it is also put to the discussion by me after a certain period of time – that adult educators are excluded, for example, under certain requirements. This is already existing today. I wouldn't say I want it that way for all eternity. And the amendments provide for exceptions to the very numerous exceptions that exist in themselves for three areas which go in a similar direction, such as adult education and the like. These three exceptions are decided today in amendments to the House's amendments: an exemption for artificial workers, provided that this activity is not the main source of their income, a derogation for amateur athletes, amateur trainers, provided there is a certain income. And a third exception, which will be decided here in the House, is for suppliers of certain periodic printing works, namely newspapers and magazines, which provide political, economic or cultural information. However, these groups are not completely excluded. In contrast to adult education, these people, these three groups, which I have mentioned here, are excluded only from the new provisions that we are only now deciding on. That is to say, there is no exception to existing standards. And if there are workers in this area who have service contracts, which is very common, these exceptions do not change anything at all. If they are servants with a service contract and receive income above the level of low-security, they are still fully insured in the entire area of social security. I just want to tell you one thing: I have not received a letter from the Lord Dienand, nor from anyone else. Maybe you got one – I didn't. I've never met Mr. Dienand before, it would have impressed me little. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But it is enough if Mr. Khol or Dr. Kostelka knows him!]] And it is certainly not the case that Mr Dienand was affected by this measure alone. If he has been employed in this field, he will certainly also be applied to social security. But if you think – I cannot judge that – that this has not happened in some cases, then I will take care of it and consider whether existing provisions have been violated. And if there are injuries, I will make sure that there is no longer any future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34949	Mr Meisinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e34971	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The circumvention of nearly 20 provisions in this so-called structural adjustment law shows me just how sloppy this government coalition is dealing with the Austrian constitution. First, there are years of waste and dyeing, there is no far-reaching vision to see no responsibility, and now the citizen has the hard way to carry. This time, under the current pressure of the EU convergence criteria, all groups of the population in the social field are being burdened quite massively with this load package. These burdens are by far not socially balanced, as we are constantly introduced by the government parties, but also by the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB. For example, looping schemes will become effective even if income is relatively low. Additional taxes on holiday and Christmas money have also been decided, although these scrapers have repeatedly conspired that the 13th and 14ths of the holiday. Content not to be touched. But there will be again. And with higher incomes, ladies and gentlemen, among other things, by removing special expenditure, the solidarity levy required by ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour will be fully met. Even released allowances will lose their validity. How far has this socialist coalition government already fallen if it allows legal certainty to cease in that country? In return, the ÖGB still benefits from the worrying tax loopholes, such as when selling the BAWAG shares, where shares worth 2.2 billion were sold abroad, but no Schilling taxes were paid for them. But these rulers give green light to the scrapping of their forced members. They can do that, and they've practiced it for years. The Chamber of Labour, for example, has surplus income of about 6 percent in 1995 payments. It is not willing, however, to grant its members a contribution reduction of a tenth of a percentage. For example, this would be a relief of about 800 million schillings in a year. Or: the general accident insurance institution: The one tenth of the 1.4 percent employer's contribution, i.e. also in about 800 million schillings per year, is allocated to the pension compensation fund. This will ensure that civil servants' pensions are guaranteed, because self-financing is the least in this area, and the ASVG insurers are also subject to additional burden. Pensioners will also have to make their contribution. In the future, they will no longer receive their pensions as usual at the beginning of the month, but only at the end of the month – not the same as the officials who receive the salary at the beginning of the month throughout their official life and thus have a monthly salary free of charge with this burned-out state. Workers and employees will receive their wages only after work done, but they will now be taxed higher in the overtime payments as far as they are still paid in the future, and this, although the wage tax has increased from 88 billion schillings annually since 1989 to over 150 billion schillings. But with such actions, with such tax packages, wage tax revenue will soon be reached at the 200-billion limit. But there is no way to attack the unemployed income of officials. Up to 75 percent of the total income, they can make good. However, this will not be affected. This exploiter coalition fills the cash again with the money of the wide mass of the ASVG insured persons. Even the double finishes, the non-contributory supplementary pensions, the senseless salary advances and all other additional amenities in the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB area will continue to exist. Yesterday, for example, ÖGB Vice-President Neugebauer, said that he was replicated by Mr Frischenschlager: Trade unions are there in their self-understanding to secure the social standard. They are also involved in responding to framework conditions and in reaching reasonable compromises with service providers. This Vice-President of the Excavated Trade Union Confederation has forgotten that the highest standard will be obtained on his own. For the members, it is more difficult to make compromises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the beginning of today's discussions on social affairs, our clubman has kept the mirror in front of the MP and the higher ÖGB-functionary Nürnberger. Of course, there has been riots, of course, has been demented. But the members of the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers already know that the beans are paying their money at the expense of their members. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ÖGB twin "consumer" is the best example of what higher ÖGB functionaries set as a goal. For example, the Chamber of Labour currently devotes more than 50 percent of its working capacity to the member survey, and it is completely indifferent how the load package beats its members on the stomach. It will secure its fines, and the members will have to pay the token. On the track, as so often, thousands of workers remain. Another consequence of the structural adjustment laws is, for example, the increase in the standard consumption levy and the juicy increase in taxes on electricity and gas – without any reduction in the additional wage costs. All these burdens must be borne by families, small earners and minimum pensioners who often live at the poverty line. And as ÖVP and SPÖ sizes protest, Austria would be the third-richest country, and in the same breath cut the poorest, the caregiver, the pocket money by 50 percent to 550 p. It is a shame in this country, which so many hard-working people have to fall from incompetent coalition politicians! But also at the ÖBB, at the post and at the EVUs it is powerful. There, three times as many staff representatives as are required in the employment constitution are fed there, and those working at the ÖBB, at the post office and in the ETUC are reduced. Is that desirable? Is this the objective of structural adjustment? Dear ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is a pleasure that the peppers will also be punished higher in the future, because this will also be met by a large majority of the members of the government, with the "beautiful vranz" at the top. Because they infuse us with this soup, which must then extinguish the vast mass of the population under great strains. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, early retirement insurance years are gradually increased to 37,5 years. And thus those who are actually incapacity for work and inability to work, with all those who have understood how to press ahead of the contributions, are being scrambled over a comb – as has been the case so often. The word "rare mower" has already fallen from the more often. Here it is very special again. On the other hand, after six months' term of office, for example, the Federal Minister already receives three monthly salaries, including special payments, after a year already six monthly salaries, including special payments, and after three years – that is, after not even a term of office – they receive twelve monthly salaries, including special payments. In addition, they will receive the minimum pension. It is no wonder that the contribution of political mandates to Austria is moving by 180 million schilling. However, approximately 900 million schilling are necessary for these pensioners. This is redistribution according to socialist or social democratic patterns! I can give up on that. No word on the fact that amendments are to be decided here, and there are no threats to strike by the red and black personnel representatives, as they have been brought to the meeting by the ÖGB officials in the last few days. It is no wonder that ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour are silent, but the Bones there have similar privileges, similar arrangements, similar benefits at the expense of their members and at the expense of all taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer, yesterday, under the Structural Adjustment Act Public Service requires: Gentleness would be appropriate, no disordering, no hustle and bustle. This must be carried out in a solid, correct form. This needs to be done by the side of it. Mr Donabauer! I ask you all serious – I especially appreciate you –: Who has caused this huge disorder in state finances over the last ten years? Do you think that this inequality of Austrian citizens is to such an enormous extent a solid, correct form? I wonder, Is a structural adjustment law solid and correct without abolishing such abuses? For me, such a structural adjustment law is unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35085	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35106	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Meisinger! - I don't know if I should say "College" after the insult you left on us. [[Abg. Meisinger: There are also exceptions!]] I believe that we should not use such a vocabulary, especially in connection with a sensitive matter, starting with "Bonzen", "Schröpfer", "Explorer Coalition" up to I do not know which abuses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that all Members here in the House should understand that the maintenance of the welfare state of Austria must be a priority for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And in order to make this possible, we need to change structures in some areas. So we have to save. In this respect, the opposition parties demonstrate a schizophrenic behaviour. On the one hand, they criticize the high level of public debt, and when it comes to changes, they are the first to say that nothing must be changed, it must be more. I really don't understand this procedure! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Unbelievable!]] I do not understand, for example, the behaviour of the Greens. I can recall that the Green Group Members have made a number of requests for compulsory division of the leave of leave, i.e. one year of father, one year of mother. Now that's provided in the law, and now it's the worst thing there is. If you are discussing here, you should not build on the fact that all colleagues are forgetful, we do not know everything – thank God! – but still some of what was demanded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can be proud of the fact that we have set milestones in social policy in recent years. We may have overlooked that the construction of every mile has chosen a lot of money, and sometimes, as it is unfortunately usual, construction costs have been exceeded. Let's just look at the social sector. For example, there has been an increase of 82 billion schilling from 1988 to 1995 in social expenditure, which is 62 percent. We have perhaps meant it too well in some areas, and I believe it has also been the case in the field of care provision. We are sorry that there are savings in the first stage of care, that we will have to keep our standards here in the future, but it is certain that a proper step has been taken with the provision of care. Much of what is contained in the Structural Adjustment Act can be signed. For example: The claim expires in the event of death, that is, from the day of death. I don't think that's a non-social measure. It is also not unsocial if you stop taking care of someone who is temporarily or even longer in the hospital. It's normal not to pay twice. Especially you, from the liberals, repeatedly owe that there are double- and multiple-performances. That was a double and multiple performance, and that is now corrected. That's something positive. I think we have shot at the target in this respect, we admit that. And this is not a saving in this area, but a quite justified correction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to say a little bit about the Socialist Group: I am very glad that in the field of care provision it was possible to prevent one, I say, institutionalization because care at home is a very important factor for me. We have said in the introduction of care provision that it is the most humane and best solution, even if family members are caring for. [[Abg. Reiter: I am with you, but also family members!]] It is not always possible, but I am very glad that there are no innovations and no savings here – that is very important to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In general, once again on care: I believe that the fact that we have preferred the right of appeal that there is an improvement for children prior to the third year of life is a major factor in the new corrections. If Mr Haidlmayr, who is not here now, said that it was all terrible that the disabled had virtually no support at all, then I would like to point out that 246 282 people had received care benefits in Austria at the average level of 5 281 pp. by December 1995. I think that's something we can really be proud of. In the field of care provision, we have the objective of practically freezing or grinding the costs to the level of those of 1995, i.e. stabilising costs. I believe that we can be satisfied with this, and we are glad that there are no more painful cuts here. However, I would like to tell the Federal Minister that, as a woman's politician, social security for the caregivers is still a matter for me. This is certainly not politically from the table, but we will continue to pursue it, and we will surely find a solution together. I think that's very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to the division of the vacation: In this respect, there are two points of thought or approach. The negative is: I'm not a fan of the new regulation, I admit. A positive thing about this is for sure – I insist – that if men take care of leave, they will finally realize that child training and housework are work – this is perhaps an educational process that can be started with it. The second is: We have seen very well that, after two years or sometimes even after four years, women were very difficult to get back into the farm. Women may now have better opportunities to get back into work after a year and a half. However, we still have to consider, even in one and a half years, whether we can't find new models, so that women or men can also have better contacts with the businesses during the karenz period. I believe that this is an essential point that we must also take into account for this time of government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to the savings in unemployment insurance that this was not only a political realization that needs to be saved, but that it was above all a wish of the population. The population has a broad sense of justice, and it has noted very well that there is basically a need for corrective measures here in order to increase the reliability of the meeting. And I believe that this structural adjustment law has taken an essential step in this direction. We confess to this: We must help those in need, but not in the way that Mr Ollinger's report is presented. We know that, with too much unemployment money, there is a poverty trap, that there is too little incentive for unemployed people to seek a job again. And I think it is also not serious by social politicians that so-called poverty traps are set up for the unemployed. In general, it is the case that in the future we will have to make great efforts to meet unemployment. We know today that it is not an Austrian problem, it has been shown by many previous speakers that Austria is still in a very good situation in this context, thanks to God. We will be dealing with this problem together – and I believe that all political groups and all Members are morally obliged to participate in this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35216	High house! I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to a moderate expression, but I would point out that in a novel by the author Hans Fallada the word "Bonzen" appears without any conjecture. But I think your suggestion was very appropriate, Madam President. [[Abg. May. Posch: This is very inappropriate!]] [[Abg. Leikam: This is a cut-off!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. I'll give it to her. [[Abg. Leikam: You are not entitled to an evaluation!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Madam Member, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35278	I would ask you to rest, Mr President, because I do not understand that Mr Posch's renewed excitement should go at the expense of my speaking time. [[Abg. Leikam: What Mr President has to say!]] But I am going to give you a reason to be excited, because I will now talk about the situation of the disabled and about your attitude. I must tell you that I am very disappointed, including you, Mrs Gatterer. I admit that there has been a double performance on certain points that you have listed, but you have, like the cat, pushed around the hot bridle in front of those points that would not have been shortened in the care of care. They have mentioned those points against which the disabled themselves have nothing at all. They have, as has been said, cut only those small excesses to which it has actually come. But they have not said that the disabled who are in a home will be reduced to 500 s. You pushed around and didn't say anything! You always want to be proud, you want to be happy about what has been decided here, but no one is unhappy about it when all that is taken back, what you have decided here. And we'll blame you for criticizing it! I'm disappointed! I am disappointed by you, but also by the Minister. The Minister has... [[Abg. Gatterer: defamation and criticism, there's a big difference!]] Please? What did you say? [[Abg. Gatterer: defamation and criticism, there's a big difference!]] Listen And give me the answer, Mrs Gatterer: Why did you not complain here that the disabled who are in a home are only left 500 s of pocket money? Why did you not complain that the allowance for the disabled will be removed? Why did you not complain that parents of disabled children now no longer have the opportunity to claim their extra expenses on the tax route? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's where you pushed around, and I really don't think that's right. That really has nothing to do with the way in which it is expressed. You're always dealing with schine arguments, but don't deal with the really urgent problems. Minister! You have said again and again that if you have been criticised by the incisive measures in the field of the disabled, you have spoken to the people anyway. The representatives of the disabled were asked to attend the ministry, where they were allowed to pay a visit. There you told them how it looked. But you have not perceived or demonstrated a single incentive of the disabled. I find that which is embarrassing to a social state in the field of care provision, in the field of the disabled. No one of you should be able to make himself and the social state of Austria should boast if you have to admit what savings measures have been taken for the disabled. That's what I want to write to you in the main book, as it's so beautiful. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 4 billion schillings must help disabled people to reorganise the budget. If I may remind you, the officials will contribute 16 billion. A quarter of this amount will help the disabled. However, the effects of the savings package are still generally affecting the disabled. Unfortunately, Mrs Bauer! Please inform yourself once and do not let colleagues in Feurstein Sand scatter your eyes. Stay here, I will prove to you immediately that all my statements are correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] I would also like to tell you – listen, then you will see that I am right –: As I have already said, the disabled have already agreed that they must also contribute to rehabilitating the budget. I have here a letter from the Austrian Civil Disabled Association. In this they write: "We have always signaled our willingness to contribute part to the undoubtedly necessary rehabilitation programme. However, the measures we are currently facing go far beyond what we can imagine and are now expected to bring about almost double the potential for savings originally planned in this area. These burdens, in addition to those of these people in normal areas of life, are not acceptable even in terms of financial impact." - Quote. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only you have given the disabled more or less to understand: Let's talk about it again! – Before discussing the Structural Adjustment Act, you have invited you to come to a hearing. This hearing has taken place. Only: There was no change in either a point or a dash or anything else afterwards. The disabled people have expected something to change. I don't know why you did this hearing at all. You could have saved it. It was just an alibi treatment, and you should be ashamed of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The disabled wanted these measures, which were planned by the government in three areas, to be withdrawn, namely the reduction in the level of care 1, which also resulted in this allowance of 500 s. They wanted these 500 s bags to be taken back, and they wanted the allowance to be maintained for the disabled. So these are demands that would have been quite feasible or about which one could have discussed whether one would not at least milden them. You didn't do anything! For hearing you have ordered them, raised them hopes, and then you have let them go home, while you have continued to insist on your position that the disabled are an important object of scrapping in this social state of Austria. And from that we distance ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know, not only my group doubts Their social sense of responsibility, but all the disabled do. Many disabled people I spoke to have said: In the face of such a government, one must be afraid. We must also be afraid of such representatives of the SPÖ and also of the ÖVP, who do not find anything in this area to put in place decisive measures. Minister Hums! You always have nice words. They always say: I understand, and I'll talk to the people! – It all sounds very sympathetic. At the moment, the disabled have gone away, and it is not necessary to let people soak up. Only: They raise hopes in these people, and rightly arouse hopes, for the disabled are the ones in the state who have been totally neglected for a long time, who have had to wait much too long for the care money and who have been used too much time and time and again comforted. I think it's merciless, it's very merciless, a person who's in a home because he's disabled leaving only 500 s pocket money. You, ladies and gentlemen, are told again and again – I am convinced that Mr. Feurstein was the "Apostle" of the Enlightenment: Well, these are the disabled who have a pension anyway. . I have already told you, that is simply not true, because the vast area of the disabled from childhood, from birth to birth, is also covered. These people don't have a pension, and if they have poor parents, they have nothing but this 500 S. The woman Wonda – all the people who have to do with the disabled – told me from the Balance Association that she is traveling with donations, with all kinds of support, with the disabled – not with all but with a few – 14 days on vacation. Among these disabled people there are those who have 50 s pocket money, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you have to imagine! – because they don’t have money because they don’t have parents who support them. You can ask anything. The situation in many disabled people is disastrous, and you are thus still intensifying this situation. We cannot agree with that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can already imagine that politicians often see old people who are in the hospital who are nursing cases, and they also get the care money. And then the idea of the relatives coming into the night cabinet grumbled around, saying: You grandma, you have so much money, I'll take everything. – This may happen to old people who are no longer able to plan their own living conditions, but those people I am talking about, who also involve you in your actions, are young people, these are hard-to-prepared wheelchair drivers, but they also have needs that we cannot exclude from everything and from everyone. Mr Sozialminister Hums is always concerned that the care allowance is only intended for care measures and one receives only care money for the care measures, and the care is still available in the home. But by means of care measures I also understand that the disabled may be carried out in his wheelchair for a walk. [[Abg. May. Ederer talks to Federal Minister Hums.]] Mrs Ederer! You know, if I'm already talking about the disabled, I'd give you the advice to sit down. You look and listen to this, because what you said about the limitations of the care money was as scandalous as anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Be glad that someone listens to you at all!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] You know, you don't even need to tell me with an awfully angry face, that's scandalous or angry! Mrs Ederer has no idea of disability. But she also keeps the Social Minister from listening to me. They're constantly talking about propriety. But they have no propensity! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Ederer said that everyone with disabilities should be... [[Abg. Leikam: Go on!]] Yeah, I'll keep talking. Now the Minister of Social Affairs can finally listen to me. [[Abg. Leikam: This is unheard of! That's unheard of!]] Before you roar "unheard" you would rather deal with the social responsibility of your wife Ederer. She said that the care allowance belonged to all those disabled people who are not in an official institution. We could read this everywhere. Obviously, then – thank God, I must say – it has been rebuffed. That's your social sense of responsibility! - Shame! The Socialists have no sensitivity in this area at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: We did not delete it! What a nonsense you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are disabled people who don't get on the road for months. These are the disabled, including those who live in homes that no one has. With the 500 S care money they can't afford that either. If you take an organized care, as Mrs. Ederer meant, then you need to know that this costs 200 s per hour, and after the care allowance they may have 50 s that remain. Mrs Stoisits! In many things I do not give you the right – you are unfortunately not there – but I can give you the right. You said today that the social attitude of the Social Minister cannot be understood. I am faced with the same problem, I also doubt this social attitude, but not only by the Minister of Social Affairs, but also by SPÖ and also by ÖVP. Mr Seidinger! They were today the one who took the word "decent" several times in the mouth and updated it. I do not think it appropriate that the disabled should be given something with one hand and taken away with the other hand. One law gives them the care, and the other sets out measures to take away the care money. I think that is very inappropriate, and I would ask you to think about it. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This is a cheese you say! That's nonsense! You don't take the care money away from them!]] They have always celebrated the introduction of care provision. I can remember: Mr Hesoun even said proudly, Social Minister Blüm from Germany telegraphed him, which is not a great success. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: That's right!]] Yes, it's right, but on the other hand, take everything away from the disabled, because you charge the care allowance ten times. I'll tell you that. It's going to be on the part of the ÖVP... [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: We do not take everything away from you again! That's nonsense! You are talking about better knowledge, Mrs Colleague!]] I'm not talking about better knowledge, I'm just talking about what it's all about. There, the disabled – from the point of view of the ÖVP – are especially welcome to do so from the economic side – are threatened again and again: If you're too upset, we're going to delete the care money at all! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is an injunction!]] - That's not an injunction. Mr Maderthaner has already said that, Mr Mayer of the Economic Federation has said this, I have heard it myself. I can only be surprised at Mr Feurstein and you. You dare to speak me down without interruption, but would you have spoken as much as you do today in the negotiations for the budget? You were obviously stupid. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Obviously Mr. Feurstein was dumb, it was Mr. Guggenberger stupid, and all the others who were talking about the poor in Austria were silent when it came to the budget, because there the people with disabilities were thrown to the head. Minister! I'll tell you where we can save. You can save 4 billion schillings. Do you know when? If the disabled are accommodated in a home, then the right to care benefits is transferred to the countries. Let us change § 13 Care Act and say that the care allowance should rest at home, because in reality the care allowance is a financing for the countries. Mr Feurstein! You know that very well! Vorarlberg alone has made 40 million schilling out of care. In Vienna we are talking about billions of schilling that flow from the care money to the country. Let us make this bill together and say: If the disabled are in the home, the care allowance should rest, and the countries should fulfil their duty to provide for proper homes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The countries, obviously also the socialists, have enough money. Mr Guggenberger! In Vienna, for example, the Danube Island Festival, which is mainly a SPÖ festival, is financed by 10 million Schilling. There's enough money for that. It will be the Praterfest, the 1. Mai-Fest sponsored with 2 million Schilling in Vienna. The Socialists have enough money for that. There is no need for savings, there is no scarcity of the budget, there is no lack of money, but the money is thrown out – only for pleasure. Mr Guggenberger! Now I ask you: What is more important: at least once a month a disabled person comes to the road or that people on the Danube Island enjoy themselves at Würstelbuden and other events? – I am more concerned with the disabled, because this is a fundamental need for a person to come out from there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you find it righteous and find it decent – because you are constantly talking about decentness – that a disabled person who works is being removed from the amount of free money that was given to him at the time, because he has a special effort to get into work at all? – He may need half an hour to wear the shoe. He needs someone to help him swim or something. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: For this the care money has been introduced!]] – For this the care allowance is not because the care allowance – ask Mr Sozialminister Hums, he says that the money has a mesh – is for the care effort. And this release – you know, now you're talking about better knowledge, I'm throwing it before you – was just for those expenses he has because he's going to work because he's doing harder. I know a Trafikantin, a woman employed in a trafic, a severely disabled woman. She got care money. She can practice her profession, but wears a bodice from head to toe and always needs foreign help – to dress, to swim, to someone who leads her into business, only in the business can she be alone. When she received the care allowance, immediately, within a month, the charges for the helpers, have been increased for this medical service. Now she can spend less hours with the care allowance than before, because the fees from the country of Vienna have been increased for the hours, and now she is still deleted because it is said that she has the care allowance anyway. Please, where's the logic?- Oh, my God! All that the care allowance has brought now has to give it for higher hourly rates. And now we're still saying, You're going to work, you've got the care money, so you can get your extra expenses out. – That is not true, however, because this woman – and there are many such examples – is just the opposite. It is noted that measures have been taken by the ignorant. And you're not afraid of really taking off your shirt to the disabled. And we really do not agree with that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say the following: They have also removed the tax exemption for significantly disabled children – with the reference to the care allowance, although the care allowance should cover only the care expenses. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that disabled children – just like any disabled person – have an enormous amount of effort, much greater than any non-inhibited person. There are disabled people who need new shoes every three months. But there you can't buy sandals or tennis shoes at 300 s. These are shoes that cost 1,900 s, for example. Then, in the case of young people with disabilities aged 15 and over, there is the self-retaining of the travel costs which you have also increased. That's not 15 S anymore, but 34 S. For each journey back and forth to a therapy, the disabled person must pay 34 S or 30 S – nailing Please don't tell me the exact amount. The disabled person, for example, needs a bathtub lift. This is no longer paid by the health insurance fund because it is not a rehabilitation measure. It has been saved everywhere, little more is paid, but the benefits are also reduced in the case of the disabled. There is also the need or desire of the disabled to visit certain doctors who do not have health insurance contracts. All this is to be taken from the care money or from this tax exemption. Someone who has a disabled child, a disabled youth or a disabled adult at home simply does not have this tax force that a non-inhibitor has. That is why it is also right to use the place where the power is concerned and to grant a tax exemption. Otherwise, you speak of red and black continuously of human dignity, you lead this word continuously in the mouth, but to the disabled you obviously do not want to allow a decent life, because you do not hesitate to take this opportunity by restricting financial grants. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just as merciless, just as indecent, as you do in the whole area of the disabled, in which personal financial benefits are involved, just as indecent, just as unmerciful you are also with the National Fund. This is set in advance with 1 million schilling – for the thousands of applications that exist during a whole year. For example, they are financed by the National Fund for Wheelchairs. The health insurance fund doesn't pay every wheelchair. Electric wheelchairs are financed, some buildings are co-financed to houses. You want to do all this with 1 million schilling? There's so much in the budget! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I'm not talking about better knowledge! Don't tell me what I'm talking about. I know exactly what I am talking about, Mr Feurstein, because I know the requests made in the National Fund. I already know exactly how many applications are not taken into account, because there is no money available, namely legitimate applications! The representative of the Ministry of Finance is sitting there, and he always says it's too much for the disabled. The biggest thing, however, is – and on top of that, Mr Feurstein, has brought me your call for interim action: I also mentioned in the National Fund that there are disabled people who cannot be left alone, disabled children, for example, but on which an official of the Ministry of Finance meant very cool: Well, they're not hurting either. But there are disabled people who have epileptic seizures that can suffocate when the mother is shopping. There are some who stand up themselves, but then fall down and can break something. Thus is the "sensitivity" of this federal government, this socialist government, this ÖVP and also this socialist party! You know what? – You can only be ashamed of this whole package that you're giving up on the disabled!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35582	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35604	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The subject we are dealing with here today would be a source of temptation to address many individual issues. However, since we have agreed to a block-by-point speaking time, it is also the fairness of my own political colleagues that I should like to take a short look at it. Therefore, in my remarks, I will confine myself to an important topic – from my point of view. We Socialists and Socialists in particular know that work is more than a pure basis for human existence. Moreover, work is part of what is generally referred to as the meaning of life. And that is why, if we are "supplyed" here today with a lot of criticism, I would also like to thank our Federal Minister for his efforts to reintegrate those people who are unemployed. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With all my understanding of the fact that opposition policy is often exhausted in criticism, Mr Oellinger, I have little understanding of this when you get out of here, criticizing precisely those measures that are so important to individual people. [[Abg. Oils: The tears come to me!]] In this Structural Adjustment Act, we have taken a step towards ensuring employment-like employment contracts under social law. I deliberately say a first step because we need to seek further regulations to prevent the circumvention of labour and social legislation and social security. This includes a solution to social insurance obligations for minor employees, as well as the meeting of several minor employment relationships, as well as work contracts. As Mrs Schaffenrath spoke globally about discrimination against women in this structural adjustment law, I would like to say that the measures I have mentioned improve more in the real situation for women than is the case with theoretical approaches. On the subject of working time, my colleague, Mr Bauer, will still comment: only one thing has already been said: The extension of working time to zero tariffs is not only required by parts of the economy, but also by Mr. Dr. Haider, with his demand for a reduction in holiday entitlements, has done exactly the same. "Social reduction for sharks a means of overcoming the crisis" or "rodging permits in the social state" are headlines of articles dealing with the social policy of the FPÖ. In this way, the words, not only the words of Dr. Haider today on apprenticeship training, but also, unfortunately, other contributions by the FPÖ, actually less than contributions to teaching and social policy as a whole, must be understood, but unfortunately as contributions to social policy emptiness. – For a protocol: with double "e". Despite some of the measures in this structural adjustment law, which are painful, we also find emancipatory – admittedly I would like it even more – but above all employment-saving measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Even if you don't like to hear: It remains that we, the Social Democrats, are committed to employment and to working people and solve their problems.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35647	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35669	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two days ago, when we also negotiated the Family Package during the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act, we liberals spoke accordingly, saying that the families are the ones who pay the most in this load package. – The Minister for Family Affairs and the Environment has made a statement in the course of which he said: After all, we have introduced the second year of karenz, which was a huge achievement – he was very proud of it – but now it is just that we have to take back some of the benefits in the area of the family. These statements were quite significant for the system of this federal government, a system characterized by legislative decisions, which have never been considered in terms of financial or economic impact. They didn't think about it at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this way, it has been found in an Austrian way: Well, won't get so angry, not so many people will claim these things, things they've legally secured to them. The evidence is the statements made today by various Members and also by you, Mr Minister, in which you have constantly spoken of corrections, corrections that are necessary. Minister! In my opinion, corrections are improvements of errors. They have thus admitted directly that this Structural Adjustment Act contained 92 serious errors. This means that, after many years of the existence of the Social Ministry and the other ministries, this Federal Government has to correct 92 errors this year. Last year, the No. 1 load package was already partially corrected. That's what I'm asking myself, ladies and gentlemen: Are we Austrians actually the experimental rabbits of the nation that we sometimes decide on things that are at the moment or because there is just a choice at the door to instigate votes? – You throw a dialing sugar to the voters – but you don’t think about the effects. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, over the past 25 years in Austria, a "privileged elite" has crystallized or widened, which consumes the money needed to finance the passed laws of recent years and social benefits. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Except injunctions no statements!]] Yes, I do! It is a "privileged elite" in the National Bank, in the chambers, in the associations or at the management levels of the social security institutions. They have been taking away for decades the hard work, the disabled and the needy in Austria, the money that is legally available to them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But instead of putting off these privileges to secure the financing of the social system, go the wrong way. They say: Dear people, we're sorry, the budget is so bad, we have to clean it up, we have to save. They're really saying, We need to save. I feel that this is an immense naughtiness, because if I look at this structural adjustment law – I don't hear those promises where you say: In the course of time, we will also change what has been said so far – I must say: In fact, you should say to the Austrian population: Dear people, you have to save, but don't: We need to save. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That privilege elite in the National Bank, in the chambers, in the associations, in the management levels of the social security institutions has not yet given up their privileges and cashes off! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Only submissions!]] These do not have any share in the measures to save, measures that you have raised to the Austrian population. They don't even contribute to that! It is likely that their compensations are even raised somewhere. Some of your changes to the law do not have such serious consequences, but some of the changes that are being decided – I have no doubt about that – and have negative effects, effects that are no longer to be corrected, and not because the economic location is being weakened, because it is even more driving the unemployment rate up. I only take out one example – I have looked at it carefully and also talked about it with those concerned – namely the example of the inclusion of works contracts in social security obligations. Currently, up to 90 percent of Austrians – especially Austrians – have works contracts in the field of direct sales. That is not a little! To your understanding: Direct distributions are, for example, Tupper-Ware, Donauland, Vorwerk, Lux, to name only the bigger ones there. These companies make annual sales of between 2.5 and 3 billion schilling in Austria. If this law is passed, then a 25 percent product price would enter into force, not only because they have to bear some of the social security, but also because the handling in accounting and administration will again cause costs. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is stupid and drawn to the hair!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Then talk to the head of the company and group. Do you know what those group leaders said? – at the last meeting, they decided: If this law goes through, these companies that make 3 billion Schilling sales in Austria, which allow 25 000 people an additional earnings or a small earnings, which are mainly not possible for these women to find another job, will go abroad and sell the products they sell directly here via the shipping trade in Austria. That's what was told me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You're always talking about an employment offensive, you're talking about job creation, but on the other hand, you're going to put draft laws here, where the exact opposite will happen. There is a market study or a need analysis. You have to talk to the people, not just sitting in there and constantly trying to confuse the speaker who has informed himself with some comical statements! Ask the people who are affected. – My colleague, Pablo, has already advised you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is a need analysis of these groups that have said: If they stick to the future legislation in Austria, they would have a sales loss of 30 percent. – However, if these companies go abroad and sell the same products via the shipping trade, they would only have a sales loss of 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! These companies expect benhart. 5 percent already say they say: That's where we move. And that's what they'll do! I told you: 25 000 people who have a merit, who otherwise have no opportunity to earn something, will once again have less budget budgets, and then those who work in the production of these items in Austria, and those who work in the administration of these companies, which is 4,000. So once again, 4,000 jobs that you, ladies and gentlemen, are putting to the wind from social democracy and the People's Party. I already told you: These are decisions you take without considering the effects they will have. These companies don't wait for two years until you may have thought about it: That was not quite good what we made!, but these companies make decisions, out of stock, and then stay away from Austria. Then you'll probably have put them in the row of those you say: Have been out of Austria, you can't do anything! I would also like to point out the enormous administrative burden that this insurance obligation entails. You must imagine: 25 000 works contracts must now be reported ad hocly to social security institutions. 25,000! That is to say, the service provider must report this on suspicion if the limit of lowness is perhaps exceeded by those where he is a contractor. It will then be checked whether he is subject to insurance at all, whether he is above the threshold. – If this is not the case, he will be informed that he is lying below. – These are all not inconceivable administrative costs. There are also enough workers with work contracts who have variable incomes: Once he has 3 000 S. The next month he was industrious, there he has 6 000 S. This is due to continuous monthly reports from the social security funds. If this is the case with 10,000 to 15,000 people, it is a huge administrative burden. You talk about the coalition always about administrative simplification, a slendering of the administrative apparatus, but you are here presenting draft laws that are exactly the opposite. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: Schilda would have had a real pleasure in you, a pleasure in Austrian legislation. Minister! If you had spoken to the people before, you could have saved a lot of things, namely this accusation, with regard to the exemption for colporteurs. This is an exception that will really make "furores", because that shows how media-dependent this federal government is. It is media-dependent, and I believe it can be extorted, because this government does not score by achievements, since this government has only made its successes dependent on media coverage – and will continue to make it dependent. I can only agree with this load package, which is the subject of work and social affairs, on a number of points. We Liberals have called for separate voting on many points. I think that this Federal Government would do well to get the billions of the privilege rites in the National Bank, in the chambers and associations and at the management level of the social security institutions before taking them so deeply into the pockets of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35792	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35813	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I was in Washington a week ago. I had to see with horror that a kilometer next to the White House people under newspapers were sleeping on parking benches. That's not all: In America, 40 million people have not been cared for, and this leads me to my topic today, that we should be proud of it – despite savings packages and all that has come to us and was necessary – that we Austrians have full care in terms of social affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Despite a two-year reform discussion by President Clinton and his wife, the number of non-suppliers in the US – and this is a new number – will rise to 60 million. To 60 million! In other words, in America almost 20 percent are not provided in the case of illness, they are thrown out of the hospital – something that would be unthinkable in Austria. We in Austria are even a step further: We offer a wide range medicine at a high level. For example, I have a liver transplanted construction worker who was in the AKH. This is one thing that is absolutely not obvious at international level that you get such a high performance without age limit, without any surcharges. I now come to my topic in the real sense: We should be very, very proud that we can live in this system. We see this very often with the eyes of the healthy, but when someone is sick, he really wants the full care. So how is the way to go? Should we rather keep the level of Switzerland, Germany, Austria, or do we go towards England and other countries that have a lower level in this regard? Minister! We are almost artists, I must say, that we finance a level that the Germans have to finance with about 6 per cent of the employees – if you calculate the care contribution – that they have to finance with 14 per cent. There is thanks to all those who provide benefits but also to give praise to social security. I'm sure you'll accept that if I say this as a doctor who's a cash doctor. Austria is about the eighth place in the costs. – Unfortunately, the word "deficit" has intervened in the Austrian discussion. However, I believe that there is no health deficit and no hospital deficit. That's crazy! There is also no school or street deficit or federal deficit. We should put a different principle in the foreground, namely the principle of best care. That is also the citizens' desire – and that is what should be the subject of consensus in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, we should not close our eyes to changing positions ahead of us. We have – and this is to be said honestly – a funding gap of about 4 billion schilling this year, and if nothing happens, it will be 6 billion schilling next year. This then continuously increases to 10 billion schilling. What can we do about it? – First of all, of course, we can save, save and save again, but save there has its limits, where this level of performance is clearly reduced for the individual necessary level of performance. I wouldn't speak to him. Secondly, Reduction of benefits. I think that at the moment we have to think carefully about whether we really want to do so. For example, the extension of these various bosses' duties – I say, these are more of a control doctor’s duty – is: Who cares? This is especially true for older people, those who are not mobile, disabled and mostly severely ill. I don't think it's fair to say, You can have everything, but it is always a permit!, because it is meant: Pay it yourself! I don't think that makes sense. In one case or another, but I think that at the moment something will be covered if, for example, I think about the disabilities in the physiotherapy of vertebral diseases, although this is the main cause of disability. Thirdly, Strikes of benefits – including bed inserts for epileptics, for people who can't keep the urine any longer – are actually counterproductive, because these people are then put into the hospital quite properly. The fourth point that is possible to cover this gap is the famous new budget allocation. All ÖVP proposals towards self retention have been rejected. The proposals I am now hearing from the Ministry to increase self-retaining in the medications would be theoretically feasible, only: The path you're looking for will, I believe, become an own gate, one against the sick. Because if you're staggering the drug fee with 20, 40, 60 s, who are you meeting with the 60 S? – Meeting it They're not the one who occasionally takes a drug, but the one that's chronically ill and who needs a lot of drugs. I can tell you from experience: There are people who cannot afford these restraints if they need six, seven medications and have a minimum pension. Another form would be the use of means of taxation. I think we will have to discuss in the future whether it really has to be a dogma that everything about contributions is to be financed. Germany, France and Austria are the only three countries that finance all about contributions. It is not written anywhere, it is nowhere in stone that one cannot take control of it. Why do we take 15 billion schilling out of the tobacco tax and have the result cost of smoking in the health field – carefully estimated – about 30 billion schilling? I could continue to think about this example: Alcohol, driving and so on. I come to the end of my remarks. Ration in medicine is a subject worldwide and is assessed differently by medical ethics. World-wide, it is said that ageing of the population could no longer be financed. We are an island of the Blessed, and we have to be very careful so that we can remain, because each rationing means that some can safely buy it on the private market, but others cannot buy it. I know from experience what I'm talking about. If an offer is not made at all, it also means: Waiting lists, waiting lists. If you're on a waiting list when a member is on a waiting list and then dies, that's a bitter thing. That is why it would be important to have courage for the truth! Do we have courage for the truth that we have a very good system, but that we are at a crossroads and have to decide: What services do we want? And how do we want to finance them? The ÖVP stands for a highly qualified medicine, for a medicine for everyone – for everyone, please! – for a medicine at acceptable prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35898	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e35921	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The interest of the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ in the last three days has been as low as hardly ever before. The bank series were very lighted. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Especially with the liberals!]] They are the first spring days outside, blue sky, beautiful warm it is, and the use of the parking benches in the Town Hall Park is negative reziprok to use the banks in the rows of red and black here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where is the shark? The shark is playing tennis!]] It is also understandable why you have no interest in: Because in your role as elected representatives of the people, you have been discharged by the government of your office as a legislative one. [[Abg. Marizzi: Where's the shark?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Where is your leader?]] They're completely out of function. You're sitting in there as a vote-marionettes. To vote you have to get in from the parking benches under the beautiful blue sky outside. That's your job as the government's handiwork, the executive. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The shark is sitting in the sun!]] [[Many other calls to the SPÖ and to the Freemans.]] The question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether, if the National Council is practically serving more than Marionette, the MEPs of SPÖ and ÖVP are being abused as a vote-mandater and if the whole violence lies with the executive, the whole violence lies with the government, on the best way to one or even one in the middle of a government dictatorship. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's what you want!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The "Kurier" is already right if he represents you as voting marionettes!]] Mr Rasinger, the health spokesman of the ÖVP, has just returned from Washington. [[Call the ÖVP: It doesn't matter, but it's good!]] Obviously, he still suffers a bit of jetlag, for in his speech nothing happened to him at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He acts as a health politician as well as a doctor – he has once said he has already taken the wrong hand to a boy – because he gets firmly into the coalition with the ÖVP with the red government group and has become unable to act and move with the entire coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: Primitives really can't do it anymore!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Wormitzer, sit down!]] Its proposals and the proposals of the EIA to reorganise social and health care are limited to proposing an additional new burden on citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Do you have anything to offer besides evils?]] Mr Maitz, Mr President, the burden on the ÖVP from the increase in self-sufficiency of more than 5 000 S per person per year to the increase in contributions for pensioners. That's really scandalous! We do not support this load package proposed by the SPÖ's ÖVP. We liberals are clearly outside this burden sheet of the large-coalitionary road warehouses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Ordinary call!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: order call!]] If only as an example, I'd like to quote the care money law. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Weglagerer?]] This has already been discussed in detail and with full accuracy by Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What do you mean by "Wegelager"?]] If I look at you, I think so much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36178	Deputies! I ask you to distance yourself from personal insults.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36200	That was no insult, I can't stop only my ingenuity. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Go!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Blessed are the poor in spirit!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Valorization for 1996 and 1997 is no longer provided under the Care Money Act. Stage 1 is even reduced from 2,635 s to 2 000 s, and from the third day in the hospital the care allowance will be deleted. The average stay is eight to nine days, and many – about 50 percent of patients – go home on the fourth or fifth days. In many cases, in thousands of cases a year often only because of one day or for two days the care allowance has to be cancelled and then re-approved. This is an effort and a bloating of bureaucracy that is not represented by anything. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What has not yet been said, I can tell you this, ladies and gentlemen, and there you, Mr Marizzi, can look very anxiously at it. [[Abg. Marizzi: Does this have anything to do with blue light?]] In my practice, I make every day applications for the award of the care allowance, and what I have been doing since the National Council election of 17 November. It has been particularly noted last December that, on average, the requests I am making are approved at a lower level than before the National Council election. [[Abg. Grabner: That the SPÖ has become stronger!]] It's just scandalous! It is already clearly recognizable by a lack of classification, by a clear reduction in the classification in the various stages – I have already found this in my practice – that it is too... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who's in?]] The doctor, together with the person in need of care, submits the application and is then classified by the social security scheme. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Aha!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Due to the doctor's suggestion!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] The doctor submits the request, Mr Parnigoni, but those gentlemen whom the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible do. And they obviously now have the guidance – otherwise I can't explain that – that suddenly the unfortunate disabled are now being classified much lower than before the National Council election. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've learned something quite strange now, too: More and more applicants have recently come and say: Mr Doctor, I would like to make a request to grant the care allowance, I think it is up to me to stage 1 or 2, but I have heard when I receive the care allowance, then I lose my driver's license. Imagine that! Where does this pressure suddenly come from? I've never heard of that before the National Council elections. All of a sudden, this information is available to the applicants, and they believe – at least this is suggested or informed to them – that they can, of course, already obtain the care allowance, but it may then be associated with the loss of the driver's license. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true! That's not true!]] I have already done this experience in my own practice. You have no idea at all, my colleague. You've never had anything to do with it. The practice just looks different. The practice looks different! It is saved on the back of the disabled before these laws enter into force at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What is more, something in this package is what makes me believe that those in charge of the Minister, who has the highest supervisory responsibility for social security, cannot cope with a cure of rehabilitation. You now want to pay for cures and rehabilitation. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! A cure serves the purpose of maintaining health. This is a service where you can also accept a payment, I have nothing against it. But rehabilitation – as well as a hospital stay – is a way of rehabilitating the health, as opposed to maintaining it, and therefore no more costs for the patients than for hospital stays have to be incurred during rehabilitation stays. But they now want to increase the amount of payments for curing and rehab stays to the same extent. You don't need to shake your head like that! It says inside, it's like: Payments for health and rehabilitation stays. We strongly reject this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Rehabilitation serves to restore health and is therefore no worse to treat than a hospital stay. In the case of social health insurance – and that is the real reason for my speech today – where you, Federal Minister, have the highest supervisory duty, we know that in recent years, the proceeds have become very high. We know that up to 4 billion schillings are in danger of departures for 1996. We know all of that. We also know that in recent years, although the benefits have not been increased, contributions have been constantly increased. We have already criticized this several times: As a result, additional wage costs have also increased considerably. Although the health insurance companies have not done much more, they have been slipping into a billion deficit over the past two or three years, while they have been able to make large deposits at billions in the past. It is not true that the cost of social security has increased considerably, because they have already financed only part of the costs for the stationary patients and in the extramural area the costs have not been known to God as high. This could be almost covered with the increase in contributions. There must be something else lazy. There are quite some maladministrations in social security. I have criticized in a press service that the staffing position, especially at the Vienna regional health fund, is 70 to 80 percent higher than that of other federal states. If, for example, the regional funds Vienna employs a staff member of 277 insured persons, and is fortunately employed by the regional health insurance fund of Burgenland, an employee per 787 insured persons. [[Abg. Nürnberger: What are your total figures for the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse?]] Well, that's percentage per insured person. Have you ever had mathematics at school, Mr. Nürnberger? Have you ever enjoyed math lessons? [[Abg. Nürnberger: Which total do you assume? What total do you have? Do you say the total number?]] Per insured person employs the local health insurance fund Vienna three times so many. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Well, say it! That's not going to happen! Tell me the total number you've taken!]] The Landeskrankenkasse Wien employs three staff per head of population compared to the Landeskrankenkasse Burgenland. [[Abg. Nürnberger: How many? Tell me the number! Tell me the number!]] 277. [[Abg. Nuremberger: How much?]] An employee of the Landeskrankenkasse, on 787 insured persons in the Burgenland, comes to 277 insured persons in Vienna. [[Abg. Nürnberger: How many are these in total?]] Don't the numbers tell you anything? [[Abg. Nürnberger: I'm telling you! There are 1,000 people from the Hanuschkrankenhaus! Nobody else has that!]] You don't need to scream like that, Mr Nürnberger. I understand that you have already been so angry today, because what you had to hear from our Federal Party Minister Haider today, what you had to hear from the opposition parties today, I believe that you have put this into a state of affairs. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Because you don't know anything!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Go out and get some UV rays from the sun, that will calm you down! Go out a bit and drink a coffee, that will bring you back a little bit to balance! [[Call at the SPÖ: You have to listen to this!]] [[More lively calls.]] But especially those who have the highest level of employment have taken the biggest restrictive measures for their patients, for their insured. There is no longer a need for medical treatment, where the head of the medical profession is extended, where the doctors are put under pressure. Especially at those cash offices, this happens which employs most people, as in the regional health fund Vienna a very high percentage is related and weakened. This is already the purest inbreeding in the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. It must be seen that there are no chromosome aberrations in this breeding that is being carried out there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I can't understand, too, that the local health insurance fund is saving Upper Austria on the back of the patients, while in the previous year it put the new pruning construction into operation by 270 to 280 million schilling. There are pruning palaces set up by the health insurance companies, but in the patients are saved. – This is not health and social policy, as we liberals understand it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are for the care of the patients. We are for the balanced, for the adequate and high-quality care of patients. The compulsory insurance, which does not allow any other insurance, is called on, together with the head of the insurance company, to ensure that there is no ongoing burden, treatment restrictions, reductions and increases in contributions on the back of patients and employers. We really don't see that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I now come to a very curious sparide. This is where the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse makes a proposal in the doctor's chamber, and it agrees very well that medication should be saved. What I have to say is that about 10 percent of the cost of drugs goes away. So if you still save so much, you might be able to save 10 percent of the total drug costs of 14 billion schilling, which makes up 1 percent of the total health costs. [[Abg. Grabner: 10 percent of 14 billion are at least 1.4 billion!]] There won't be much going on to renovation. This drug deal, decided by the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and the Medical Chamber, provides that medications should be saved, that the patient should be ordered to use low-cost medications, that they should be ordered less and that the saved millions be distributed 60 percent to the doctors and 40 percent to the health insurance fund. Did you know, Minister of State Hums? Have you been informed? And if so, I ask you politely: Do you agree that discontology is on the back of the patients that the patient is no longer given sufficient medical treatment? Have you been responsible for, contributed to, or perhaps even recommended by the Vienna Regional Fund as the Chief Supervisory Body of the Social Security Fund? I'll ask you that! Maybe you'll give me an answer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is already a new ASVG-Novelle – the 53. – in the area that will contribute to further weakening this social system, namely the rehabilitation of health care, and this also plays a major role in social affairs. The health insurance funds do not belong – unfortunately not! – the location of the Federal Minister for Health. I would very much welcome that! That is why I have also spoken. Because the Minister of Social Affairs has virtually all the competences about money. These competences should normally be passed on to the Ministry of Health. But just as it is, you're now for that 53. ASVG-Novelle. You always speak – red and black agree and, in particular, with us – of strengthening the health care system in the extra-mural area. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Yes!]] Mr Guggenberger! I am glad that you are still standing there. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Of course!]] As a result of your vote, I have already doubted that. To vote and to nod, however, are two different pairs of shoes, Mr Guggenberger! There has always been talk of group practice here. Now there's hardly anything left to prevent. The drafting of the Group Practice Act is in the final phase. It has always been in the "end phase" – as it has been for five years. Now this law could no longer be prevented by the main association of social security institutions, which was always very opposed. Hardly threatens the enforcement of this law, flutters us already 53. ASVG-Novelle, perhaps after the enforcement of the law, perhaps even before in the house, which leads to the existence or establishment of group practices ad absurdum. By restricting the award of contracts for medical activities in the event of participation in group practices, in view of the economic advantages which the main association of social security plans to break under the nail or in view of the investments that need to be made in millions of years, the doctors do not have the confidence to invest, because only limited contracts of up to three years are awarded. It would really be an economic roulette that doctors would get involved in. It will not at all come to the establishment of group practices in the abundance in which we would need them. Make sure you don't change these points! This is your handwriting, Minister of State! Because you have the 53. ASVG-Novelle co-founded or even operated mainly. I'm asking you if You are actually for the death of group practices, even before the law was born at all, or if you are the 53. ASVG-Novelle still wants to change so that the establishment of a group practice in the future will be useful for doctors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion, although there is still a lot to be said about this. We liberals – I am writing this to you in the many-quoted root book – are not for a renewed burden on citizens. The load sheet is already overshadowed. When the reforms have taken place, we will only be committed to additional funding by patients if it is not different at all, in the form of a health and social reform. Without the reform of social health insurance, Mr. Hums, there will also be no reform of health care. Now you're called! Make sure that, as you have already suggested, health insurance institutions are grouped together. Make sure that patients do not feel bound to compulsory insurance for a lifetime and that they have the opportunity to insure themselves in the case of private insurance, as is largely possible in the European area, when it comes to maintaining the insurance obligation! First of all, advocate a reasonable reform of health insurance before burdening the insured again and again!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36581	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36605	Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to respond to the statements made by my previous speaker, because everyone can make his own plea! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to focus on active labour market policy today, since it must continue to be the top priority in the fight against unemployment. For 1996, there are 58 573.4 million schilling projects in this area. An amount of 60 574.9 million schilling is planned for 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, however, the use of the financial margin should be made of the way in which those most in need of material support receive it. For example, if I look at the area of textile-cloth leather, where there are currently 8,000 unemployed and 300 open jobs – but also only for trained workers – in these unemployed, I ask the question: What should happen to unskilled workers who have been working as close-ups, as a shoe worker or as a weaving chair for 20 years and who have lost their jobs due to closures or job shifts? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What prospects are there for these people? I believe that the State must continue to make available funds for training measures and for employers' foundations. Much has already been achieved, and money for these measures in the fight against unemployment is very well-designed. If today my previous speaker, Mr Steibl, and Mr Schaffenrath, called for the ban on night work to be abolished so that jobs can be created in this way, I can compare the following with my business practice: We had a larger farm where there were 42 women's jobs. After a closer look at the possibilities for each woman to come to the workplace, this was then possible for two. I would therefore ask everyone to take a closer look at this before calling for such measures. This also applies to the different working time models which are repeatedly required. If one speaks of an increase in working hours from eight hours to twelve hours in order to secure jobs, including those areas where heavy work is done, then it must be borne in mind that eight hours now are enough. Ten or twelve hours can therefore not be considered, especially as wage losses can also be borne. I really invite all those who call for such demands to go out to the establishments once and to stand there for a week at night only and to see under what pressure of performance the working time has to be completed. The development of the labour market is characterised by a massive structural change and a shift in the economy. Edge groups are increasingly difficult to re-enter in the labour market. At present, there are a number of measures and institutions for those people who are very difficult to integrate in the labour market, such as the disabled, long-term unemployed or older workers. That is why I support the principle of "integrating instead of providing". The integration of social marginalised groups on responsibility and competence should be given priority over the supply. It is important that active labour market policies are also covered by the resources of the European Social Fund. This fund sets out priorities, such as in the service sector, for example, by raising the level of training offered, by increasing consultation and guidance, and by increasing the range of training offered. Ladies and gentlemen! We must do everything we can to give as many people as possible a job. In economically difficult times, it will not be possible to pay particular attention to optimal profits; the goal of achieving full employment must also be given a high priority. Every person must feel that he is also needed and bears responsibility: Only in this way can social peace remain in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36662	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Second word, remaining speaking time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to speak briefly. I would like to make another motion for a resolution which I was unable to put forward in my first speech, and I would like to say a few more words about it. The motion for a resolution deals with self-retaining of cures and rehabilitation measures. We talked about this in the committee and, as far as I could imagine, we also agreed that the basic intention of this request is shared by everyone, namely that, if someone uses a rehabilitation measure for accident reasons, it is not interested in the self-preservation that is otherwise planned in the case of cures and rehabilitation measures. In order to ensure this, we have tabled this request. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that the request no longer needs to be justified. I would, however, like to take the opportunity to add something to my first speech, as far as accident insurance is concerned, but in a different context. In my first speech, I referred to the project of the President of the District of the 4th Chamber. Lengheimer District refers to the long-term unemployed being instrumentalized to ensure that dog stumbles are used in the 4th century. They will be removed from the district. – As it turns out, however, Mr Lengheimer, who has sold this project very well through the media in his interest, has obviously forgotten or is not willing to register these long-term unemployed at least for accident insurance. I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to look at this question as well. For it cannot be said that projects are sold politically in all the public – and in addition to this from the pot representation fees of the district president, so to speak, from the advertising cost estimate of Mr. District President – to increase the personal fame of the district chief. He is the only one who is doing something in Vienna against the "hungers" and who sends the long-term unemployed to the streets; on the other hand, these long-term unemployed people who are sent to the streets are not even accident insurance. I would also ask you, Mr Feurstein, to influence your party colleagues in this regard, that long-term unemployed, if they are already instrumentalized, be notified for accident insurance at least if they are employed in minor employment conditions. A comment on a request made by the liberals because, as far as I have followed the debate, this has hardly been discussed. Mr Pumberger has just referred to it. We will not agree to this request by the liberals for a statutory fixed period of sickness benefit for 78 weeks. This agreement is therefore not possible, because – ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you know that exactly! – in the case of a statutory fixed notice, an increase in health insurance contributions would, of course, be necessary. The health insurance companies now have a deficit of between 5 and 10 billion schilling. Therefore, if you want an extension of the legal service contract – and a significant extension of the legal order, namely a triple! . then, if you criticize the government parties, because you have also criticised the fact that there is never anything to say about costs, in a request you make, you have to note that it causes costs in billions. That sounds good! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] You obviously don't know that. It is about the cost of this request. And that is why we cannot accept this legal extension, which would make sense to and for itself – I do not dispute that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36758	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger is under negotiation. Mr Grossruck. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36782	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A well-known way of life is: You can't let anything go of it when you wish. – In the past, not only did you not let go of anything when you wish, but you have also fulfilled some unfulfilled wishes. And the dramatic budgetary development, which, if one does not do anything now, would result in a re-indebtedness of 200 billion schilling deficit, indicates where the national economic limits lie in fulfilling the wishes of individual stakeholders. It may also be legitimate wishes, but the development of the budget must nevertheless be limited. Ladies and gentlemen! Saving and taking back non-refundable benefits is therefore, as it seems, not a sporting discipline in Parliament – according to the motto: Who is the better, who is the more consistent, who is the faster and who is the successful saver? – but it is a command of the hour. The same applies to necessary structural measures, for example in the pension system. To do this, we are simply forcing the demographic development that is known in Austria. I do not, ladies and gentlemen, have any ominous Taferl here, which is about to fall, nor do I have an apologies of la Colleague Haller, who, I say now friendlyly, presupposes the spelling reform of the year 3000 after Christ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] What I have here, Mr Stadler, is rather a graph of the demographic state of the country of Upper Austria, which can also be transferred representatively to all of Austria. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] This is how the population structure in Austria – and of course in Upper Austria – looks like: The broad beam, ladies and gentlemen, is today's 30-year-old. And if we look at this development, we know that we have no problems with financing the pension system now, but we will get these problems when these 30-year-olds retire once in 20 or 30 years. And that is why it is necessary to take measures in the long term that counter this trend. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One speaks of an age pyramid in this context. However, those who recognize a bit geometrically and have migrated there will find that this is by far not a pyramid, but that it could be described as a weathered sphinx. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a Tautology!]] That's a Tautology, very well. They prove that you are also powerful in the Greek language. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am pleased, Mr Stadler. You should apply your apparently humanistic training in your statements as well as more often! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You should put the store from which you draw your Bonmots a little higher! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Another applause!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A pension and structural reform is therefore necessary, but it must also go hand in hand with an employment offensive. We must give the answers to the questions of youth unemployment, women's unemployment, old-age unemployment and also long-term unemployment. There must be no taboos in this discussion – I say so quite openly. We must question everything, discuss everything so that we can make the right decisions! We are also currently faced with headlines in the newspapers regarding the company Semperit – I am returning to the current state of affairs. It is well known to be a former renomming company from Austria, where 1 000 jobs are now to be moved: I'm saying this with caution now. "Semperit", Mr. Stadler, as we know, is translated from Latin: "It's always going." And it should not be so far through development that it must be called: Never: "There won't be any more." . I believe that what happens at Semperit is that production jobs are being outsourced to cheap countries in Europe. There's something more to it: As employees of the Semperit company told me, it should not only remain in the outsourcing of production facilities: The "Mother" Continental also intends to outsource the office work and the entire administration to the Far East as it is at all the trend of international corporations. – These are the challenges that come to us, because through the Internet, through modern satellite connections, it is no longer a problem to get the necessary data at the push of a button cost. That too will be ours, and we must give an answer to that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What are you doing about it?]] Mr. Hazelsteiner! If we outsource production – and this is a Europe-wide trend, I know – there must nevertheless be people who can buy in Austria the goods that are produced abroad. That means: The unemployed, who are "produced" here in Austria, should actually buy what is then produced abroad. It's not going to work! That's where the cat bites in the cock! I would just like to point out this problem. And you can now comment as a business expert as you want! You probably know much more and much better about the economy than I do. But let one who does not call himself a business expert, but, as I claim to have a sound home mind, bring these considerations in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The house's mind, Mr. Hazelsteiner, has always proved to be better than all experts who so often course somewhere. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: With the persecution of their course, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, Dr. Johannes Ditzund the Austrian People's Party recognized the signs of the time in the previous year and presented the Austrians with pure wine. We can present the outcome of the budget negotiations with a genuine pace and a raised head. [[Abg. Meisinger: I don't think so!]] However, there should also be some who will need the explanation for what has been decided, and those who have gone on the design of glue with the "we- let-no-to" slogan and now have to pick up for four years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36914	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e36935	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For time-term reasons, I wanted to take a very short look. However, the contribution of "Arzt eins" from Ried was so polemic that I was shaken and still had to respond. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] His aim is to eliminate and destroy social health insurance. I am surprised that a doctor does not recognize the increase in health care. I wonder where his medical knowledge remains! Thanks to the improvements in top medical care, of course, the share of the costs for the KRAZAF increased, as the hospitals cost more through better medical care. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why are the costs in Vienna three times as high?]] I'll answer you. Please don't interrupt me! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I'm just asking!]] You can ask me, and I will also answer – but then, whenever I want! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What about the 1,000 patients in the Hanuschkrankenhaus?]] A thousand patients? There are more than a thousand patients in the Hanuschkrankenhaus. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I quote the statement of Mr Nürnberger!]] There are also much more doctors working in established practices, who naturally want to have a worth living income. This will also, of course, increase social security expenditure. The services offered in the area of established practices have increased. New drugs were added, and we all know that the new drugs cost much more, even if you pay attention to the economic list. The health insurance companies had to spend a lot more money on this! Consider, for example, the cytokinins: If you know what they cost, you'll also know where the money is going! Insurance is in no way an alternative to social security. Even today, the premiums from many old patients can no longer be paid. However, the range of services provided by private insurance is much lower than that of the social security sector. One would separate the poor from the medical services. They are not in a position to distinguish the administration from the health service. In addition to the Hanuschkrankenhaus, the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse carries more than a thousand employees, where many patients receive top medicine, including patients from Lower Austria and Burgenland, as well as many ambulators in order to be able to provide medical care as well. The administrative burden of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse is not higher than that of the other regional health telephone. Perhaps you should discuss your concern for the chromosomes of the employees of the Vienna regional health fund with the Reichs-Sippenamt! Otherwise, I can only say: This remark was more than tasteless! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who should we discuss this with?]] The agreement with the Vienna Chamber of Physicians refers to equivalent medicines. But you also know that equivalent drugs have different prices. That's why there's an economic list. And the request of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse was to use cheaper but not worse medicines on equivalent drugs! So leave your eternal interference in areas of the Vienna District Hospital and the Vienna Medical Chamber. The Vienna doctors are not skrupellos: They do not enrich themselves at the expense of the patients! We Vienna doctors really don't need to let us blame you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: My question you still haven't answered! Why are the costs in Vienna three times as high?]] Then you didn't listen to me! I have said that we also have ambulatories. Of course, costs are higher, even if hospitals are run where doctors and nurses are active. This does not only include the administrative apparatus! They compare the administration with the health service! You are not able to compare! Since you're academics, I'm wondering! I wonder how you've done your studies if you can compare so little the same thing with the same thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then explain it to me at last!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: She can't explain it!]] Obviously, you don't attend congresses, because otherwise you knew how to rate curves and make comparisons. You can't! We Social Democrats... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You promised us a statement!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You have such a deep level I'm not used to going down to! I come from different circumstances! Fortunately, with such a level as you represent it, I have nothing to do! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. May. Peter.]] We Social Democrats are not willing to... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Give us an explanation!]] I gave it to you. That's a question of intelligence. If you don't understand them, I'm sorry. I can't make you more intelligent than you are! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] I'm a doctor, but I can't do anything for your intelligence and your understanding! That's a question of the level you don't have! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But maybe you can influence this with medication. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] We Socialists are in favour of this choice that we do not want with the concept "Save: yes, but just!" ...................................................................................................................................................................... [[Further calls to the liberals.]] We have to decide on a package of savings, which is significant for all parts of the population, and also affects everyone at a similar percentage, so that we can talk about a balanced package of savings. [[New calls to the liberals.]] An ever-increasing problem has been caused by early retirement and by the higher life expectancy, which is fortunately due to the improved hygiene conditions and the better medical care, the pension payments. The proportion of working time must be extended in this longer life so that social benefits can be maintained or continued. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ms. Primaria! We are waiting for your diagnosis!]] I still consider the pension funds of social security, which are provided for under the principle of payment under the Generational Treaty, to be the best pension provision, and not private pensions in accordance with the capitalisation procedure, since the risks alone lie with the individual and life planning is hardly possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You owe us a diagnosis, Mrs. Primaria!]] I don't owe you a diagnosis because you're not a patient with me! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] I'm not guilty of any diagnosis at all! I've already put them for me, but I don't have to make them public! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The high profits of private insurance... [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] If you ever scream, you can't understand me. Unfortunately, it is impossible to understand me if you are constantly yelling! But you can read it in the minutes afterwards! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] He's powerful for reading. You don't need to...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37224	Ladies and gentlemen! Since I was in office here, I have written down about 15 expressions for which a call for order would have been issued each time during the previous legislative periods. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to try – I have said that more often – to compare whether the expression "tasteless" is more angry than "reducer" and this annoyance is more "krupellos" and so on. I ask in every form those who are at the speaker's desk – of course also colleague Dr. Pittermann and any other group – to choose an expression that saves us such interruptions. Faith You're telling me: It is impossible to establish justice and always determine what is going on and what an admonition requires and what is not just an admonition, but a call for order. I can only address all five political groups with this request. Please proceed, Mrs. Doctor!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37251	The high profits of private insurance are not so much due to the economical administration – insurances also know social benefits, premiums, pension benefits for their employees, even the highest manager's salaries – but rather to the increasing premiums with low customer friendliness. A small risk community that wants to cover many risks is condemned to failure – or demands from the assets as high payments as we have to find out in our pension insurance contributions from Vienna doctors. Therefore, a clear yes to social security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since almost all the details of the Social Affairs chapter have already been dealt with very in-depthly, I would just like to address a small part. Academics have always been charged with school and study periods for pensions. This has now changed significantly. Mr Schaffenrath found this measure unfair for female academics in particular. As a self-affected person, I must say: It's very, very unpleasant, it's hard, but it's just. Because considering that at a time when the same age was already fully integrated in the work process with two, then three and four weeks' vacation, we students had much more freedom and longer holidays, and we were able to enjoy our youth. However, the students of the labour market, for which this is not true, have been subject to insurance periods because they had employment relationships. Through higher education, however, we also achieve a higher social prestige, a better paid job, a job that makes us happy and that is often called. Even though we women, like almost all professions – with the exception of the Federal Service – are paid worse than the men, the academic is privileged to the worker and employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] You rejected the silence rooms. I can only say: I'm for the silence room. Because long breaks in work often make a woman's career goal impossible. Therefore, there will be some who will have to choose very well to do their job again in silence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I said, I think this measure is justified and fair, although, of course, I am not enthusiastic about it, because that concerns myself. In the long term, however, we can only secure pensions with appropriate income and longer insurance periods. Full employment is essential for the spread of the social network. Only through social security and tax revenue do we have the possibility of disbursements. We must therefore make every effort to preserve jobs and to provide for others. However, we should not let one population group raise against the other, otherwise the generation contract will lose its validity. Every citizen must be clear that he is responsible not only for himself but also for everyone else. Abuse opportunities are to be reduced by the present draft legislation. However, we should be careful to convert social debates mainly to anti-abuse debates. What seems to us to be abused by others, we often feel that we ourselves are a "well-purchased right". I often heard of men marrying a young woman just before retirement, so that her pension did not expire after her death. I often saw that for holidays for the children, one claimed an allowance from the hospital for respiratory diseases, although one would of course also have gone on vacation. – Fortunately, there is no longer this possibility. This was the abuse of those who normally don't mean to speak of contraception. That is what we mean by the poor, the little ones, the unemployed. [[Complementary of the Abg. Nicer and oillinger.]] Originally, the state was willing to pay for one third of the pension payments. Two thirds would have to be paid by pension insurance. For reasons of justice, we must ensure that the federal share of all pension systems is made at the same percentage. As a politician, we are called upon to make it clear to the people that these cuts are essential that we be in solidarity with the young generation and with the old generation. Only a solidarity, open and responsible young generation, which is to be met with respect and whose future we are caring for, will have its share in this state of affairs and participate in the generation treaty as we are currently doing. If we achieve that in our country the mutual importance of each other is higher than that of any small counterpart, then I am sure that our pension insurance schemes can guarantee pensions for the future, despite all painful cuts.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37334	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37356	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For more than seven and a half hours, we had a very intense debate on a large social package today, on the transformation of our social system, which, I believe, is necessary and correct, even though it is extremely difficult and, perhaps, too little awareness of the need for transformation in the past. Ladies and gentlemen! A transformation of the social system is a permanent challenge, and no one should believe that today's package has done this task of reorganisation. Social needs are constantly changing. So you can never call a social stop. On the other hand, it would be easy to say, socially, that everything must remain as it is. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a discussion of the consequences of economic development on our social system – an extremely delicate task. I say the following to you: I did not have a discussion with the GPA's central secretary, Mr Katzian, until last Friday at the works council conference of the trade union of private workers. You will understand: When the Central Secretary of the Trade Union of Private Workers talks with the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, different positions are taken on many points. But in one we had a basic consensus, and this basic consensus is to be expressed in three very simple words: "We need to redesign!" [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain this on the basis of these very primitive words "We must redesign" – I would like to underline every single word three times. First, "we". Ladies and gentlemen! Social security is a priority concern for the entire population. My colleague, Mr Donabauer, has rightly quoted today: Social security is a cornerstone of our democracy. It's not that we're "overdoing" each other. – Neither can employers "overrun" the workers – nor vice versa. "We" means that we are all called – employers, workers, parliament, government – to bear this responsibility together to address this challenge together. This is a common concern from a basic social responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must be very, very careful – and I admit, it is probably very difficult for the opposition to meet this requirement – we must be incredibly careful that we continue to deal with this awareness-building without uncertainty circles of the population; an incredibly difficult challenge. I know the opposition is, of course, always seduced to act demagogically here, but I think social security should be too valuable to us for day hack and the beating of political change. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, on the word "must". Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, "must" because there is basically no alternative to the transformation of the social system. I would like to say it very simply again: A social system, even the most beautiful social system in the world, which is only on paper, because we are losing jobs for reasons of competitiveness, is of no value. A social system is only valuable if it is not only available on paper, but can be financed by efficient businesses, by efficient jobs as well as by means of sustainable and secure financing. The only financing guarantee for social security at all is efficient, profit-oriented businesses and thus jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is therefore no alternative – we should also call ourselves into consciousness – because we have a big disadvantage in the economy – I would like to express it deliberately a little pointed: We cannot pragmatize economic success. Prosperity and economic success must be redesigned daily in the economy, in the enterprises. And therefore there is no alternative, therefore the word "must" after the word "we". To the third word, "redesign". Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress: This is not the case here, as some polemically claim, of a reduction in social security. It is about a social transformation, it is about reorganising our social system. For if it is argued that there are constantly new needs, then one must honestly admit that there will also be needs that overtake, where there can be greater scope for self-responsibility, where it cannot be said: The state must guarantee everything. I think we have to get rid of this idea at all. There is no risk-free society, and the state cannot cover all social risks. We must give our own responsibility, our own initiative a new priority in social policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the word "redesign". A second topic in the near future: Today, the topic of vocational training and apprenticeship training has been developed by many speakers. Let me make two fundamental points. First: We have repeatedly stressed it here in this House, and every international comparison shows that: Due to our dual vocational training system, we have the lowest rate of youth unemployment in all EU countries. So we basically have a healthy, right system, which you can of course also develop further. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also called upon to implement this adjustment, this change in fair, fair and all the temptations of demagogy in a consistent manner. What do I mean by that? We must recognise that on the one hand we have an exemplary system, which is increasingly under the pressure of the following: that increasingly managers of businesses – who cannot be forced to train apprentices – say: With so much bureaucracy, at such high costs, with so little presence of the apprentice in the company, I do not do that anymore! That is the problem, that is the point, ladies and gentlemen. And we are very concerned that the willingness of firms to train for these three reasons – too much bureaucracy, too high costs, too little presence in the company – is constantly decreasing. The Chamber of Commerce has just recently sent to the government, to Parliament, an emergency programme to ensure vocational training. One point that has already been pointed out today is a point of 27 points: We must also pay great attention to the fact that we do not add to this cost increase by constantly increasing the amount of compensation for apprentices. Let me say the following very clearly: We are experiencing at this time that something that has been well meant for decades in the area of older workers, namely the biennial system – every two years automatically advanced – has become a boomerang, because this has led to the fact that older workers are no longer competitive on the labour market because they are too expensive. In this respect, a rethinking has already taken place. I warn against believing that if you want more apprentices, you only have to increase the compensation for apprentices. – First, training places are needed, then you can discuss the apprenticeship compensation and its height. That's the basic thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To conclude: Ladies and gentlemen, believe Give us the following: The economy is therefore extremely credible in these questions because 50 percent of entrepreneurs in Austria come from apprenticeship training. We are interested in the development of apprenticeship training, which is ultimately also the potential for young entrepreneurs. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37464	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the votes, and we shall vote on the Social Affairs Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This Advisory Group shall include Articles 21 to 38 in 95 of the Supplements. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled amendments and additional proposals. In addition, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request, and Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades and, finally, Mr Dolinschek has made a request for a separate vote on several points. For the sake of the Rules of Procedure, I declare that I will initially vote on the parts in the order of the articles and, finally, on the remaining parts of this advisory group which have not yet been voted on by the amendments or supplementary proposals mentioned and on the request for separate votes. In this sense, we shall first proceed to the vote on Article 21 (1), (8) and 11 Paragraph 47 (1). 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – I note that this has been decided by a majority. I put to the vote the amendment tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr and others on Rule 22 Z 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the proposal of Haidlmayr to give a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 22 Z1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. . I note that Article 22 Z1 was adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of Article 22 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. I adopt decision-making by a majority. I shall vote on Articles 23 Z 1 to 4, 14 and 15, 21, 22 and 27 as amended by the Committee's report, and I shall also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to it for a sign here. – This is decided by a majority. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Rule 23 Z 37, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion by Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein, for a sign of approval. – This is adopted by a majority. Another supplementary request by Mr Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Mr Comrades, concerns the insertion of a point 43a in Article 23. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – This is adopted by a majority. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 23 Z 47 and 48 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. Another amendment concerning Art was tabled by colleagues Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades. 23 Z 52 § 79 para. 25. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This too is adopted by a majority. Mr Oellinger and other colleagues of the political groups have tabled an amendment concerning the nature of the amendment. 23 Z 52 § 79 para. 26. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a Z 9a in Art. 29,................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the event of approval, I would ask you to express this. – I adopt adoption by a majority. Mr Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Art. 29 C 14. Here again, in the case of approval, I ask for a sign. . I note that this request was decided by a majority. The vote will take place next. 30, 31 and 32 Z 2, 5 and 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – These provisions have been adopted by a majority. The Members Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Comrades each have an amendment concerning Art. 34 Z 4b and 58. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a positive sign. – This too is largely decided. Next, we shall vote on Art. 34 Z 14, 22 and 56 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask you to express this. – The provisions are adopted by a majority. The amendment was voted on by Mr Reitsamer, Dr. Feurstein and Mr Comrades, who proposed the insertion of a Z 59a in Art. 34 to the content. I am looking for a sign of this for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it. – This is accepted by a majority. In addition, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a Z 60a in Art. 34. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion, Dolinschek, for a sign. – The request does not have the necessary majority and is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 34 Z 61 and 62 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. Mr Reitsamer, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades also have an amendment concerning Art. 34 Z 164 § 563 para. 1 Z 3 and 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I'll let you know what I'm doing next. 35 Z 2, 15, 18, 19 and 52 and Art. 36 Z 2, 13, 18, 19 and 52 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is decided by a majority. This means that we can vote on the remaining parts of the Social Advisory Group, which are not yet coordinated. 21 to 38, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to rise from the seats. – This is adopted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 I propose to vote on the resolutions immediately if there is no objection to them. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed in this way and vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Haider and comrades on a comprehensive appeal to teaching. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the shark?]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Further calls.]] Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on self-retaining in cures and rehabilitation measures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution on oillingers to give a signal. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. That's why we ended this advisory group. Articles 89, 90, 92 to 97 of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act Science and Transport
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37528	We are now negotiating the Scientific and Transport Advisory Group. It covers the species. 89, 90 and 92 to 97. The rapporteur has the kindness to initiate the deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37546	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to ask the National Council to take the form of an advisory group on science and transport. 89, 90 and 92 to 97 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report in 95 of the Supplements, give constitutional approval. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37567	I would like to thank the rapporteur. We are starting the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Krüger. – The speaking time is set.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37595	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's really curious that Jörg Haider, on whom you're so insulting otherwise, will take you if he's not here for ten minutes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He's not going away!]] So that's just a hate-loving thing that connects you to our federal party-obs. We would like to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! According to a study by the Swiss banking company, several criteria are relevant for the selection of economic sites in Austria: the investment climate, the savings ratio, monetary stability and the ratio for research and development expenditure. If I now use these criteria for the selection of economic sites and transfer these criteria to the situation in Austria, I must regret that these key factors are not met, particularly in the field of research and development. The share of the research and development effort in gross domestic product in Austria, as you know, Mr. Federal Minister, is small 1.5 percent. With this value, we are significantly below the average in the European Union and flagrantly below the value of industrial nations such as the United States of America or Japan. The same applies to the technology balance. Because of our situation and the leaner research and development budget, we are forced to introduce much more technology than we are able to export. In view of this situation, Mr. Federal Minister, countermeasures are naturally required by a minister who calls himself "Future Minister". In fact, however, no countermeasures are taken, but – quite the contrary! – the current trend of the low value of research and science is reinforced by the policies you have to represent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The university's savings package will result in a dramatic reduction in research activity in Austria. As far as university professors and assistants are concerned, it should be noted that the new regulations in the University Saving Package provide for a shift in teaching to work time at the expense of research. This means that little more time is left for research. The Institute for Economic Informatics of an Austrian University – this letter has been written to individual Members of the High House – has summarized the situation very well. It is noted that the planned measures are unthinked, unbalanced and unsocial, have a long-term disastrous impact on science, research and technology, and thus also on Austria as an economic location and further increase in study periods by a drastic shortage of courses in the already critical areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! If you do not believe this opinion of an Institute for Economic Informatics, I would like to draw your appreciated attention – if Mr Rasinger allows it very briefly – to an opinion by the Federal Socialist Academics. [[Federal Minister Dr. Scholten speaks to Abg. Dr. Rasinger]] You know that the President of the Federal Socialist Academic, Rieder, at the same time Vice-Citizen of Vienna, has filed significant concerns about the university spa package you have participated in. He criticised reading in the newspaper "Die Presse", issue of 16. 4. 1996 that the whole discussion would be brought to a superficial conclusion. The statements of BSA President Rieder are entitled with the text: "SP-Academists against the Unis savings package". He continues: "It is certainly not the right way" – says Rieder – "to distribute the fees differently for teaching assignments or to link family allowances with the minimum duration of study for students. A purely social-democratic" – that must now be broken down on the tongue, Minister – "Organization cannot carry many compromises that way." – This is what BSA President Rieder says: "A purely social democratic organization could not bring along many compromises." [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now I'm wondering, What's the SPÖ? Is it a social democratic organization, Mr. Cap? – I don’t know, obviously not, because, according to the understanding of the BSA chief, a social democratic organisation cannot decide on this university spa package. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! A minister of the future who supports this anti-research policy will soon have his own future behind him. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Just no excitement, I just quoted people from your ranks. You'll probably believe them if you don't believe the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] But you may also be interested in it – and I am turning to the Austrian People's Party – that not least the Second President of the National Council, Dr. Heinrich Neisser, has spoken in parts against the Uni-Sparpaket. I quote from the APA: "In addition to the study reform plans, Neisser called the APA a second criticism point, research policy." In a direct speech, he says: "I fear that we will be able to find ourselves in this area." Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this massive criticism also from its own ranks, it is incomprehensible that the representatives of the government parties express themselves in favour of a package of savings, which includes such anti-research tendencies. If the major research projects are to be considered more closely, Mr President, all the declarations of government of the years 1990, 1994 and 1996 contain synonymous words for the large-scale research projects. I am thinking, for example, of the large-scale research project EUROCRYST, which has long been the subject of the debate in the field of research and development and which has still not been politically supported by the competent minister in such a way that it can actually go into the realization phase. If I am already in the Government Declaration, I do not wish to fail to say that the Government Declaration points out, in several points, that foreign languages have been asked. In training, in the application foreign languages are – absolutely right! – absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if I look at the savings package and take into account the impact on the taxation and creation of the social security obligation for incorrect work contracts, I see that this postulate is not being done enough to promote foreign languages. For we know that the so-called unfair contract of work or worker-like service is now subject to social security and, moreover, with a 20 percent tax on sources. In fact, three groups have succeeded in accusing of exceptional stocks. These are the colporteurs or the publishers who have already been mentioned today, they are the amateur sportsmen and also artists. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am inexplicable about why research and education are excluded. If, for example, I address foreign languages, I have to judge the effects of these new provisions on the incorrect contracts of work. This means that private language schools, such as the Berlitz Institute, are heavily affected by this new regulation. The legal representative of the Berlitz Institute has addressed the members of the Budget Committee and, as I think it is right, has found that, in this case, an inaccurate mistreatment of private language schools and thus a distortion of competition is taking place. For there is also an exception for those language schools that are considered eligible for funding. This is because the issue of whether there is a eligibility exists or not is not covered by a legal protection system. For there is no legal claim to such a promotion of certain schools. I am therefore convinced that this provision cannot hold on to the point and contradicts the principle of equality. A further impact of the regulation of unfair work contracts with regard to social security and tax liability will, of course, entail a huge administrative burden. There is no question at all that a large number of legal disputes will move into the country. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the Administrative Court already needs 16 months, such as an answer to a question, on the average, until it makes a complaint. If you are comforted when the appeals are submitted in the second instance to the financial country directors when complaints are subsequently lodged to the courts of public law, there will be a further delay in legal proceedings and a paralysis of the courts of public law. I say to you one thing, Mr Minister, that the administrative burden in general will increase considerably by demarcating unfair contract of work and genuine contract of work and similar to employees and non-employees. In a republic where 22 percent of workers are already employed and measures are rightly required to reduce this quota to an acceptable level, this fact further bloating the administrative burden. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, there is another structural problem in our Republic: It is not only the civil servants' quota, but also the fact that we have the oldest students and the youngest pensioners that are socially concerned, and it is appropriate to take countermeasures with the students. I refer to the Institute for Education Research of Science, which, after a recent issue, determined the proportion of students in the 26-29-year-old residential population by 9.6 percent. Imagine this: 10 percent of the 26 to 29-year-olds are still studying! And if you take further note that the academic rate is 7 percent, that is less than the 10 percent that still study, you have to conclude: It's a little lazy about this education policy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is here the introduction of a numerus clausus several times. We give a clear rejection to this idea by the liberals. Then: One thing is quite clear: In my opinion, a good matura certificate is not an indication of a successful study and even less evidence of a career in practice. I'm sure that's not a way out! The way out, however, is certainly not the introduction of a social numerus clausus by scarcity of resources. I am thinking, for example, of the subject of art history, where only two professors are confronted with 2,800 students. Under such conditions, the education system simply collapses. This means that something is lazy about this education system. It's not the "wrong" students. It is appropriate to address the problem of remedying this maladministration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The solution is not a numerus clausus by the Matura certificate, but I could imagine that we are creating equal opportunities by making a basic test in all subjects with a limited repetition after one year of study. Then the sprout will separate itself very quickly from wheat.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37698	Mr Stippel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37720	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was, of course, not to be expected that Mr Krüger would rise with an anthems. Therefore, I do not want to address his speech globally, but only punctually, where it fits in with my remarks. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with two subject areas, namely the changes to be made in science through the Structural Adjustment Act, and the federal proposals for 1996 and 1997. The field of science and research is affected by the Structural Adjustment Act, in particular by Articles 89 and 90. Article 89: Amendment to the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz. Article 90: Amendment of the Federal Law on the Derogation of Teaching and Audit Activities at Universities. Of course, the science field – indirectly, but nevertheless – is affected by the competence of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family of the changes in the Family Tax Compensation Act. But all legal and other measures are, of course, to be seen before the overall aspect of fiscal consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! And you can believe it – I am one of the busiest Members of this House, and I have taken a position every year on the chapter on science and research from this speaker’s desk – that I have preferred to go to the speaker’s desk in recent years than I do today. But we all know that we are in a situation where we need to save in all areas, and we have made a very, very, very great effort to develop socially balanced savings measures. It is also understandable that social balance is not seen in this way by the individual concerned. But I would like to call on all those concerned to cooperate and cooperate in reason. Of course, as I said, the scientific field cannot be excluded from the savings measures. But – I put it on a formula, so to speak – we save on a relatively high level. For, unlike other chapters, there is chapter 14: Science and research, though minor, are still increasing: in 1996 such a figure of approximately 260 million schilling and in the coming, in 1997, such an increase of over 132 million schilling. Although savings have to be made in individual areas, the level will be kept close to the next two years. Some student-related expenses – which has not been expressed at all in the discussion of recent weeks – are even increased, such as the funding of studies by 185 million schilling – which is at least an increase of 15 percent – as well as the promotion of student homes by 50 million schilling. But there is no doubt that in the next few years there will have to be concern about expenditure in the field of research and development. If Members of the Krüger have complained about the low share of GDP, I must say that this share should indeed be higher from my point of view. However, I would like to apply - I have done this from this speaker's point of view several times - that Austria, due to its economic structure, is largely small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, does not raise research expenditure in the private sector and provides research services which, for example, other countries comparable to the size of the economy, where they have large multinational corporations, such as Switzerland or Holland or Finland, so that in Austria we are not very good at the ratio of 50 to 50 as regards public spending on research and development and private sector expenditure. From this point of view, public expenditure must be seen in a different light. Furthermore, in Austria we have virtually no military research, while other comparable countries – think of Switzerland or Sweden – recruit a significant part of their research resources in the military research field. Despite everything, I would like to appeal: In the future, we must put more impetus on research and development! I believe that we must strengthen the funds in particular. Another very positive aspect in the 1996 budget is the strong increase in the FWF, the Research Fund for Scientific Research, which is clearly highlighted, but I still believe that we should do more to the funds as a whole. One should follow the path once taken by the ITF, the Innovation and Technology Fund, when some of the proceeds from privatisations were made available to the Fund. Part of the Structural Adjustment Act concerns the Studienförderungsgesetz. I have already said that the expenditure on study promotions will increase significantly. A problem – and this will of course have a negative impact on students – is the removal of travel aid, whereby the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art will provide a pot of about 50 million schilling for additional funding. The Family Compensation Act does not fall within the competence of Federal Minister Scholten. That's where Minister Bartenstein has to address. We didn't want to have the third season of family aid – and I may repeat, Mr Krüger. We wanted to go down from the 1 850 S to 1,500 S. This would have ensured that not the minimum duration of study but the average duration would have been adjusted. As a result, students would have enjoyed a high degree of family support. But it was unfortunately not possible to reach agreement with the coalition partner on this. The amendment of the federal law on the remuneration of teaching and examination activities at universities is an amount of 365 million schilling. That's where you could say: What is that compared to 100 billion? – Well, that’s what happens to those who come to a part of their income due to renewed teaching contracts. It is only then that we have to justifiably criticize something on the system: If assistant posts are shared and if, due to the division and the low basic income, the income is added to teaching contracts and these teaching orders are then shortened, the subjects feel this. But there's something wrong with the system when it came to the wild growth of a special kind here. So there is a lot to think about. Both measures have, of course, led to protests and criticisms. There have been many negotiations so far. The position at the universities begins to calm down. It is only before that time that there was a multi-hour negotiation between the Minister of Science and the Public Service Trade Union, so that we can hope and strive to bring about a new right of service and remuneration before the summer. The universities are a temporary – I emphasize: a temporary-saving process is reasonable. Without a question, there are also possibilities of saving at universities without significant quality or level loss. I would like to point out that there are both spatial and time-consuming resources that can be used even better. Nevertheless, there were very strange reactions, the chairman of the rector's conference, Professor Skalicky said in the TV "press hour", the universities cannot save, and he even spoke of states at the universities such as anno 1945. I believe that the chairman of the rector's conference did not consciously experience 1945, otherwise he could not say that. Or: The rector of the University of Vienna, Professor Ebenbauer, simply broke off talks with the Federal Minister. On this occasion, Mr President, I would like to stress the high willingness of the Federal Minister to talk. There were also discussions with the public service trade union, the higher education sector, but the problem was that, when the outcome of the negotiations existed, the trade union could not prevail with its own people. The proposal was that we should avoid harshness in the autonomous field. This was first accepted by both sides. But the union's co-operation did not go along. However, completely incomprehensible and absurd is the reaction of a part of the University of Vienna, namely the Faculty of Humanities. A Commission was set up to examine the recognition of the academic degrees of the Ministers of Schools and Climate, because they had acted to the detriment of the university. The reaction of former Minister of Science Busek is equally incomprehensible. This one has solidified with the students – that is his good right – but the government did not have a perspective. Mr. Busek! They were six years of science ministers, just under your time as a science minister, there has been this wild growth in courses that are now falling on our minds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Another serious word to the universities regarding the coming winter semester. If the rector of the Vienna University of Economics, Otruba, or the dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Vienna, Gruber, speaks of not receiving students, then they must be told that they have primarily a law order to fulfill. Obviously, they are concerned with introducing a numerus clausus in Austria. But for this the two gentlemen will not win the Social Democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In particular, we MEPs need to become very attentive and attentive with regard to the consultation of the future university study law. With all insight into autonomy and deregulation, it will be necessary to ensure that free access to the university is not called into question and, if possible, admission restrictions or a Numerus clausus will be introduced. We are for more autonomy because within this more autonomy the universities can make themselves more positive. But on the other hand, this positive design also brings with it a responsibility of the universities. And the university study law, which we will have to discuss here in the house in some time, must be considered from the perspective: What is the benefit of the students? We need to create a law that enables students to study shorter but not to lose quality. Also, ladies and gentlemen, if some of the positions of these laws to be adopted shortly are painful, we will be taking them as social democrats in the field of science and research!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37826	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Freshener. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e37850	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! When I listened to my previous speaker, I had to realize that he was giving the impression that it was all wonderful, a few rectors, middle-class members, students were obviously going through, there and there the saving was unpleasant, but actually everything was fine. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: He didn't say that!]] That's not how I see things naturally. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why "naturally"? Because you're a former university assistant? Or are you talking for yourself?]] Are you talking? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm asking you a few things! You're a hypocrite!]] I'm talking, and you have to be silent, and so we'll keep it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Oh, that's it!]] You can step out here afterwards and answer what your federal government is doing. In fact, Mr Stippel is right: Many of the conditions that have led to the fact that the university staff and the students are covered by deep frustration and anger, you have, you have, the ÖVP, to be responsible. That's the reality! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what I thought: You're a beautiful liberal to me!]] Mr. Khol! Mr. Mithochschule Professor! If, first, a third of a semester is lost and second, a good part of the staff – Mr. Khol, just listen to me!, then you can answer – which is quite friendly to you, turns against you, then this is to take note of and not to give up the ridiculousness as you just try. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm talking to Hazelsteiner, that's much more sensible!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My dear...! – Are you a university assistant?]] You don't take notice of reality! If it comes so far, Mr Khol, that leading officials of universities, when leading officials of higher education, threaten that they will not be able to start studying in the next year, you will have to take note of this and not smile over it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you a university assistant?]] [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] But, obviously, Mr Khol is very surprised. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you still a university assistant?]] Yes, I am. Of course! That is why I am also talking about things, Mr Khol. Of course! Because I also try to see these things from my own perspective and see things as well. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Finally, we know! You're talking for your own bag!]] We must therefore not be surprised – as was evident from Mr Stippel – what is actually happening here. Because one thing is clear: If a federal government – and with it the Federal Minister – addresses things in this way, as was the case in recent weeks, then this frustration and anger and this desire arise. I am not saying that they are all right up to now. But I have to take note, Mr Khol, that something has gone wrong, because the most irrational people are usually not at universities – otherwise you would have to distance yourself from your own profession. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I have to do that sometimes!]] Then do it! Then do it! It is no wonder that when – and this is what we have to take note of – a group of persons in a savings programme not only – which is natural – has to carry the general savings measures – this is unpleasant, but it concerns not only the university staff, but also the public service as a whole; this is unpleasant, but is of course to contribute to solidarity – but also, if one goes on to take further savings measures that have an impact on the structures and, above all, on the teaching industry. If the staff protests, then, my dear colleague, Mr Khol, should ring the alarm bells! That would be necessary, and not the attempt to simply wipe things away here, as it is just happening. Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable when the academic Senate of the University of Vienna is coming to the public today via press release and says – I quote –: "The current summer semester is the last semester in which an orderly teaching and research firm at the University of Vienna is possible. From the winter semester 1996/97, the collapse of teaching and research in wide areas of the University of Vienna is expected." That's what an academic Senate says! I don't want to solidify myself with this statement now. I know that the discussions in this area are often carried out in super-sharp form. But all of us should ring the alarm bells. It's not just, my colleague, Khol, it's just panic when an academic Senate comes to this positioning. Federal Minister! That is why we should at least clear out one thing – and there you bear the essential responsibility, of course, together with the entire Federal Government: We have everything to do – and you in the first place – that the right to free access to universities – with whatever reason – is not called into question. That's not the disposition! And you and the Federal Government and this House have everything to do to ensure that this fundamental right of access to educational institutions remains. That is an essential point in this high school policy situation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you ask yourself why it has come so far, Minister of State, it can be concluded that you – and I mean the German Government as a whole – have already been accused in a number of points. The first is that, as in many other political areas, this great coalition has not done much more in higher education for nine years, in part, than in crisis management. I would now like to point this out to you in an example, Mr Federal Minister: Since 1990, this very important prerequisite for a functioning teaching and research firm has been negotiated by the University Teacher Law of Service Law. It has not been brought to an end – not to this day – and I have my doubts whether this can actually happen in this climate, but also at this pace – in a few weeks’ time. Many years have passed without this very basic problem being solved. And now, interestingly, one thing is going on: These savings measures, which are, in part, pressing, which are partly tolerable and to which, of course, one has to confess, now highlight many structural shortcomings at the university and the corresponding areas. This is an interesting phenomenon! I would also like to explain this again in an example, on the basis of the teaching assignments that are being shortened. I would say that for those who have their career in life at the university, these cuts are quite tolerable by 10 to 15 percent. I would not question that at all. Federal Minister! But there are many who are threatened by these cuts in their actual existence, namely in cases where people live from these teaching assignments. Now, the decisive thing is that the ministry has in principle also recognized these things, because, in fact, some time ago, the so-called existentary lecturers were actually officialized in a considerable number, if I may say so, and thus come out of this need for existence. But a variety still has this problem. What I want to say with it: The crucial point is the structural deficit which this reveals. One has wanted and noted the increase in the number of students, but has not drawn attention to the consequences of the staff, but has tried to get away from this situation by expanding the instrument of teaching assignments. Mr Stippel even spoke of "wild growth", which I really want to call false. But it's a fact. It has been tried to put this substitution around the fact that, according to the increase of students, the university staff are being increased – which is expensive, which costs money; all recognized! But the replacement of teaching assignments has, so to speak, led to the establishment of a group of people who have not just given them a basis of life, but have just given them teaching assignments. Federal Minister! And now you're surprised when this group of people actually cuts income losses of 20, 30 percent into the actual state! The structural deficit, however, is essential. At the time, it has not really been ensured that the staff structures develop accordingly in the number of students. The second accusation I would like to make to you – and this one is addressed to the entire Federal Government – is that – because one is arrested in this system, that politics is being made by pooling interest groups – then one has a package, and then one has the problem that if one gets up somewhere – as one has experienced in the savings package I – then everything comes together at once. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real political inflexibility! The government – including you, Federal Minister – would not have liked anything out of the crown if it had been said – on this example with the teaching assignments we see that something really comes out negative here: Then we'll change that! - No! This is a package – for God's sake! – all of this has to be approved! This has proved that there is no longer any political flexibility at all. This is a point that is very, very annoying to me. I mean, that's just not policy-adequate. The third accusation I'd like to make to you. – Mr Stippel has already done this, but it is already a strange language when he says: There you have negotiated with the public service union – and what happens? These "Gfrasters" from higher education staff do not adhere to what this trade union leadership has negotiated with the Minister. – Thank God, I say! Nor is it really the task of the trade union to make decisions now in the structural field. I'm not surprised that this is the way it is now. [[Abg. May. Posch: Do you want to create state structures?]] - Not at all, friend! Not at all! What I blame you – but this is another accusation that extends to the entire government: There is no point in discussing structural reforms with stakeholders, who are of course primarily involved in negotiating income situations, but the Federal Minister and the Federal Government would have been well advised to conduct these negotiations with the representatives of the universities. But I know that in the social partnership of Austria, the union has this monopoly, and that is why no one else has to talk. This is the lack, and I ask you to understand it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In my opinion, these three accusations are very crucial why this situation – you will then correct me – has come about. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This too is wrong!]] – Apart from the situations that we simply find through the procedures, by this way in which politics is traditionally conducted in Austria, apart from the fact that the results are the same as they are, the people in the "height" – I find, at least in part, really right. Ladies and gentlemen! What is needed in this situation? – I would like to make it clear: Of course, it can't be the solution – and I'm not doing this as an opposition member either – to say: Clearly, with more money, the matter is to solve, and therefore, Federal Government, drive up more financial resources for the science budget! - No, that can't be the goal. I believe it is essential that the existing financial resources, which, as I believe, cannot be significantly increased in the next few years, should be increased. That must be the goal! And if I address the budgetary situation in this context, I must say that the formal figures for the science sector are not the worst. Finally, it must be noted that between 1990 and 1995, for example, the scientific and research budget increased from around 20 billion shillings to 30 billion. This is an amount already fixed with a free eye. But since 1995, the science budget has been de facto frozen. I have to say that this is also a situation which can be accepted in principle once. But, Minister of State, we encounter a very serious science problem, and this relates to the university clinics. The significant increases in these years – and therefore my jubilation, colleague Lukesch – and this also applies to the years 1990 to 1995, have been devoured to a large extent by the cost explosion of the university clinics. This is the reality, and I think that this is a multi-faceted approach. I believe that the university clinics in the university cities are, to a large extent, large hospitals, and I believe that the staff employed there should not be general scientific staff with a scientific career, so to speak. And that is why I believe that a structural line of separation must be made here. Finally, the following has happened: A solution has been found in a sub-area between the health sector and the science community, which in principle must be recognized, but I believe we must take a similar step in the personnel sector. There is no point in pushing any doctor into a scientific career at the university clinic. Because for the most part I claim, these doctors can and only want to be very "normal", highly qualified hospital doctors. In my opinion, this is an important point that should be taken into account in a structural reform. I would therefore like to come to those areas of problem which are beyond that. Of course, the negative list of our inventory focuses on the high drop-out rate: Every second student cancels his studies. Of course, the overlong average duration of study, which, according to documents, extends between six and almost nine years, is a serious defect. It's just too long! The next problem is the social situation. I understand the student protest, if the savings package now narrows the existential basis of the students. I do not mean that it will be gravely circumcised, but it is just a cut-off. And that is why I think it is wrong because most of the students – on the one hand, because of their long study duration, on the other hand because of the material situation, because studying is expensive – are forced to take a job next to their studies. I don't mean a subject-specific side-by-side work – if, for example, a publishing student works side by side with a newspaper. I am concerned that a lot of time is lost during these years in order to secure the livelihood. That is why, I believe, our main objective must be to significantly shorten study times by means of a study reform. That's not easy, as I know, but it's a very crucial goal. I would like to address a third problem, which is the trend of stone-making in higher education staff, where today – through the widespread Pragmatization of the medium-sized building – there is simply too little mobility in the personnel sector. And that's why we've got to deal with these things. In my opinion, it is crucial – Mr Stippel has come to know about university autonomy; I am doing it here too – to be really consistent. University autonomy is called budget sovereignty within a global budget, and is also called autonomy in personnel matters. These are crucial points when you take autonomy seriously. And I know that there are many universities where autonomy does not necessarily "taste" because it brings a lot of stress and responsibility, but I believe that this development does not go by. And that's the question of the structure of the staff. – Minister of State! It is absurd if we have university teachers, but the teaching in theory is only a leisure activity. This is nonsense, and I therefore believe that it is absolutely right for teaching to be a part of service obligations in a future university teacher service law up to a certain extent – one will naturally have to cover stress peaks – to become a normal part of the service obligations. I think it is really worrying if one pretends on the part of the "system" as if the teaching activity were leisure work. – This is an essential point. I also believe that it is crucial that, within the university staff, there should be some emphasis on teaching and research activities from the point of view of the function. It can be done in a way that allows a university teacher to focus on teaching in time, while at other stages research is in the foreground. This should necessarily be made possible. It also seems important to me that, essentially, only half of the university staff are in a pragmatic "state". We need this opportunity for about 50 percent of the university staff – for mobility, for priority setting et cetera. This would essentially be the subject of staff reform, which I would like to say – and this is related to the study reform – that there are serious follow-up needs with regard to the further development of higher education didactics and also with regard to the entire audit and control system. In my opinion, science itself would be called upon to present appropriate models and developments. So to my last point, Mr Federal Minister, on the study reform also addressed by colleagues Stippel. I think that a lot has gone wrong here too. I think it was a mistake at the beginning of this discussion to give the humanities the feeling, through the announcement of six semester studies, that their studies would be devalued. In my opinion, it was also a mistake to open the flank, thus calling into question the comparability of the international standard in relation to the studies of the humanities. I also think it is at least highly dissatisfyable to resolve the combination obligation of two studies in the form, as if there were only one subject in the future. In my opinion, it is important that the system also allows for the grouping of two studies, for my part, three studies. So there are already points where I believe that the debate has gone wrong. But I hope that the many emotions that have created this law at the universities will be replaced by an intensive and objective discussion. On some points it would be important, in my opinion, for them to be pursued further. First: I think it is right that the study plans and the essential standards for the design of the study are not drawn up by law of study, not by the regulations of the ministry, but by the study committees at the universities. This is a very important step forward. I think it is right that those who have the expertise actually define the design of the studies in the normative field. This is an essential thing and, of course, it also covers itself with the efforts of the expansion of autonomy. I think it is also positive that a competition between universities is taking place in this way. I have nothing against it at all, even if there are different regulations between universities in the core areas of the studies. It does not bother me at all if, for example, the study in Innsbruck is organized differently in a subject, with in large and quite different priorities than in Salzburg or Vienna. And so to speak, it should be the result, the product, the output of this study then the measure for which university is better. I don't think that's a disadvantage at all. I would go even further than you did in your draft, and I would also allow there to be serious differences in the core area. I also think it is right that the maximum number of hours – at all this "hourly holocaust" – is severely restricted in our university law. There is no point in studying, God knows how many hours to prescribe, without really clearly structuring what happens in these hours, what happens before the hours and what happens after the hours. This can be drastically reduced and, as it were, much wider bands can be placed in the field, instead of simply ordering and prescribing countless lectures, seminars and so on, depending on the interests of research. I mean, The aim of the study reform must be a solid basic training, which does not explain at all the facets of a subject, but enables students to develop and train themselves in further life in professional fields. This must be the most central point of a study reform. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The last point in this draft, which I feel positive, is that the study committees should also be stopped to deal with the fields of vocational training in their field of study. I think that's good. I do not think that too much practice should be put into a study. This should not be necessary in a streamlined study of four or five years. But I think it is important that the professional experience of graduates and the labour market be incorporated in the curriculum. That's very good! But, Mr Federal Minister, it will be necessary for you to provide the study committees and universities with the appropriate resources so that they can take this task seriously. In fact, there will be a great deal of empirical work needed to grasp what the graduates are doing, in which fields of work, with what success et cetera they are doing. This must be considered if you really take this thought seriously. Federal Minister! I therefore believe that we have the following essential tasks: Firstly, the study reform. This is the A and O and the core of the needs to make universities healthy. Secondly – the most pressing problem – university teacher service law in order to eliminate the unrest, frustration and uncertainties, certainly also in terms of improving teaching and research. Thirdly, the question to you is whether the UOG reform in 1993 was indeed an all-important reform if you need seven years to ensure that this university organization reform can actually be implemented at all universities. I mean, there would be an intermediate stage, and I would ask you to know if it all has its meaning. The last important point is the social situation of students. I also believe that we must do everything we can to enable our students to study effectively in a short time. It's costing student promotion. This is a social transfer that I can quite make in such a way that those who have wealth and income are given nothing or less and those who really need it are treated more generously so that they can't get into this job situation, but can really devote their strength to study in these most important years of their life, their work preparation. This is the social task which is associated with it and which, of course, is linked to the effectiveness of universities and their effectiveness. These are the things I see as an essential political task in higher education policy. However, I believe that the structural adjustment laws are actually an adaptation to very inadequate structures, and so they have a proper but, in my view, negative designation that they really deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38127	Mr Neugebauer referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor to that. I would ask you to start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38151	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Frischenschlager said that he did not think it was right for the public service union to hold the negotiating monopoly in the current university matters. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a debate, Mr President!]] On the other hand, I note that at 2 p.m. in Hall IV of this House today, under the chairmanship of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and under the leadership of the trade union, the Federal Conference, the colleagues of the protest committee...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38200	Deputies! I apologize, which no longer corresponds to the character of an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38243	I would like to draw attention to this in order to clarify: If you refer a different point of view to a question, that is not an actual correction! I now give the floor to Members of this House. Dr. Luke's word. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38269	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the current discussion on individual parts of the Structural Adjustment Act, we must not lose sight of the essential objective. The opposition, and I now have to limit it to the Freedom Party – this applies to you, Mr Krüger – naturally criticises this structural adjustment law in all its details, without putting any alternatives on the table. Apparently your alternative is: Continue as before! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You didn't listen! You didn't watch!]] So they don't want a slim state. We take note of the following: You don't want a consolidated budget, you don't want a stable currency, you don't want to secure the economic and work location of Austria, and you're implying: You don't want a good future for this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we from the ÖVP want something quite different: We want a reform concept for Austria, a reform concept that secures the future of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: More officials you want!]] Colleagues of fresheners have been very different from the usual opposition role – almost I would have said "bade" – with an objective contribution. In many things, I would give him some of the right. But I would like to put a few things right, my colleague. If you say, "Nine years of crisis management at universities," you simply disregard the reform boost of the University Organization Act 1993, whose introduction is just too slow for you. They disregarded the completely new structures of the redistribution of education rights in the field of higher education. You have mentioned the budgetary focus that has been set on science and research within these years. Your criticism is not clear and clear. They actually contradict themselves. They say "political inflexibility" and ask why this federal government, in an area where it is particularly painful, is causing problems, particularly to stir up the people concerned, to demonstrate that it is not willing to explain itself to absolve some things and perhaps to start attacking them later on. I should like to tell you, Mr Freizenschlager: All parts of the population are affected by this savings package. One cannot say in one area: Yes, we take you from the savings package without the other parts of the population, the economy, our workers, saying the same right: Yes, reforms are good, but not with us and as much as possible, much later. – That’s not how it can be done! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] Finally, they criticised the Federal Minister for his negotiations with the social partners in the form of the higher education union. The university teacher union is, of course, the legitimate representative of the university members' interests. But you're right: At the university there are a number of other organizations and groups that should have been more involved in the discussions since the beginning. Mr Neugebauer, in his correct position, has tried to highlight clearly this new path, which is now under way, where the negotiating organisation is so that all groups are involved. It must be clear to all of us that universities and students must also be involved in this process of reform and consolidation. I know from many discussions with my colleagues – with professors, with assistants, with students – that they are very well involved in this consolidation and reform programme and are quite clear about it and accept it as a future guarantee for tomorrow. This overall view of the universities has not been lost. I quote as a small proof of this from the address given by the rector of the University of Innsbruck, who is at the same time a financial scientist, namely from the address of Professor Smekal. It has made very clear at scientific level that the consequence of an exaggerated welfare state is ultimately the threat of democracy itself. I mean, we should listen to the voice of science in this regard! And that is the path that this Federal Government has now taken. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] I have already said this here, it is not allowed to be limited to the consequences of saving alone. In the university field, the consequences of non-saving – at the same level as at the university level – must also be addressed. And it will be recognized very quickly that the opportunities of our young people and the scientific and research location in Austria are more at risk than through now reasonable savings programmes also in the university field. But I'll clear it up. There have been protests on the part of the university in recent weeks. It may appear that scientists, researchers and students themselves interpret themselves as the exception sector of this general general budget stabilisation course.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38353	Deputies, apologise! If you would please keep up: There is no discussion with the gallery. – I ask the staff of the house to take care of order at the gallery. Please, honourable Member, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38372	This incident comes very close to me and is actually very typical of what I wanted to say. One has the impression – in order to take it up again – that universities generally want to fail this saving goal. But I'm already paying attention to this: This image of ÖH president Berlakovic does not correspond to the impression I have as a university teacher of the average student and the average student at our universities. [[the speaker keeps an issue of the magazine "NEWS" up to date]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Freisenschlager! In one thing, I'll give you the right thing: This savings programme reveals structural shortcomings in our university area very clearly, and the reduction – it has been mentioned by Mr Stippel: 350 million in the field of teaching contracts – as provided for in the new law on pay, are already reflecting these problems. Of course, we have problems at the major universities and in the so-called mass compartments. The consequences of this saving course are also reflected in the problem of longer periods of study – they have mentioned it – and probably also in the lack of orientation in the entry-level phase, which was followed by longer periods of study and by high drop-out rates. Mr. Freisenschlager! However, I mean – and we could enter into an objective discussion – that structural effects are in it, in particular, in the billing law, which are quite respectable, even if this billing law is not yet the yellow of the egg. You're right, it's not university service reform yet. But for example, the staggering of compensation according to the teaching and research experience is a right and good idea in this law of pay. In my opinion, the setting of incentives for a corresponding commitment in the field of teaching is also correct, as is the intention to demand at the beginning of the career of a young researcher, a young assistant, i.e. a magister, first his probation in research and not first and foremost his parole in teaching. This saves many disappointments in the further steps of the planned career, for example in dissertation or habilitation. Also cutting back the wild growth in the field of test compensation is certainly an acceptable way. But the big step has not yet been achieved. Federal Minister! I see this law as a lex imperfecta, as an assignment to the Minister, who reads: First of all, negotiate, negotiate, and negotiate with third parties in order to obtain a corresponding right of service, which, as part of the remuneration, also interprets teaching activity as a normal activity and not as a secondary activity, in such a way that this new right of service may even overtake the entry into force of the law on pay. That's where we have to say: There's a need to catch up. You're gonna have to sit down. One could also have saved these – even for me – unacceptable threats of the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Vienna, to lock out a whole year of medical students from the University, if one had talked to the people in good time! A certain flexibilization for anatomy courses, for Sezierkurse et cetera is all inside. But you have to talk to the people, open the ears, and really look for the conversation! Federal Minister! I'm expecting your Page clarifications on the impact of the cuts in the service plan. You have always said: This will be in the fluctuation reserve – the fluctuation is relatively high at the university – and will not have an effective impact. – The Board of Directors' Conference, Professor Skalicky, does not believe this! At any rate, I take from today's publication that he interprets this as if 15 percent of the professor's plans at TU Vienna would not be re-occupied. – There is also an information deficit. There is also the need to state clearly what you intend and what you want. The Structural Adjustment Act also amends the Studienförderungsgesetz and the Family Tax Compensation Act. My colleague, Mr Brinek, will talk about this. One thing I would like to say: In this area, students' realistic goals in negotiations have actually been achieved. So in the future, anyone who studies determinedly and diligently will still be able to count 1 850 s times twelve as a family allowance. It was the insight of the current youth and family minister Bartenstein, including all objective grounds for study, such as lack of places of study, in the duration of the study and adequate recognition. I can thank you for that. This is a good, very positive success in the negotiations and is in line with our objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to continue to promote the diligent and determined students according to strength. This is the real investment in the future of Austria! In the field of research funding, Mr. Federal Minister, it is also recommended that we should strive for efficiency and priority education. Although the word "research" no longer appears explicitly in the name of your new ministry, you now have the great opportunity to benefit from the synergies of two research sections in order to efficiently promote and stimulate research. The Austrian research concept falls strongly into your personal responsibility, because you now have both large groups of research funding in your home, in order not to say, in your homes. This also includes – and I believe this is an important point – an improved pre-accession of Austrian researchers to EU research funds and EU research programmes. Here we could give real impetus to research and research promotion. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 and 1997 scientific and research budgets, with over 30 billion schillings, amounted to several hundred million schillings each over the 1995 approaches. 1995 was not a university disaster year. Therefore, the challenges of an orderly state budget will also be dealt with in the next two years. The university reforms, which began with the UOG 1993, are urgently to continue. Service law, study law, the Austrian research concept must be promoted in an intensive dialogue with stakeholders. More money is also not the only savior concept for universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38459	The next speaker is Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38480	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Lukesch! More money is rarely a sedentary concept. You should know that as a confessing Christian. But the problem we face here is a trace less metaphysical. You have not forgotten that 40,000 demonstrators were on the streets a short time ago, that all universities across the country were on strike – now, provisionally, not anymore. In the newspapers, there have been some careful, sometimes also haemical comments about the fact that the strike – under quotation marks – should be "broken down". I do not think that we should see the matter so easily. A few weeks ago, Mr Rudolf Burger, rector of a university in Vienna, asked the following question: Even assuming that the university protests – whether they be the student’s or the middle-level building – are hopeless and pointless – for example, for the reason that Mr Lukesch mentioned: one does not want to put on a chained package at a small corner again – even suppose that would be the case, are the protests illegal and pointless? – It is not you, Mr Burger, and I think that is very important. They are not illegal because the package meets students and readers with disproportionate hardness. That is what I would like to say once again to Mr Lukesch. It is not the case that the population would be equally affected by this kind of budget package, but rather one of the reasons for the protest of the readers and assistants, but also of course the students are against the fact that they are disproportionately affected. You know as well as I do, Mr Lukesch, that the assistants are largely threefold affected. They are affected as citizens and as normal income recipients and are affected, for example, by all income tax measures. Secondly, they are affected by the so-called savings package, as far as they are officials. They shall therefore take all measures applicable to the public service. And third, they have a small package – "small" against the background of the 100 or 110 billion schilling that goes on here – which, however, refers to relatively few people. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is true for all income tax and tax payers!]] These 300 million schillings, divided into the readers and assistants, make up relatively much money in individual cases. That's the third thing she hits, so it's a triple load. It cannot be said that we have a uniform package here! Nor are the protests pointless, even if they are unsuccessful, because they have a problem publicly politicized. They have put the problem in a political dimension, into a political sphere – that is the argument of Mr Burger – instead of allowing it to persist in the economist. Mr Burger – I quote him literally – says: "a political problem, which, however, was dealt with only bureaucratically, purely economically in procedural terms". I am, of course, indignant that it should be purely economic, as the ministerial bureaucracy or the Federal Minister has done here, because I myself am an economist. It is rather the crucible picture of a purely commercial view, which Mr Burger caricades here. After all, what he means – I quote again, now brought to the top –: "Just economics is not to be seen why Austria is still doing universities and universities at all. In the context of the EU, they could all be rationalised." – This is not my opinion, nor is it Mr Burger’s opinion, but he is so to speak bringing the matter to an absurd head. I'll continue with the quote: "Austria could cover its entire need for academics, regardless of which sector, from the EU area without producing a single one of them. In the current academic unemployment in Germany – the same language – "this should not be a problem. There wouldn't even be a language barrier. Conversely, all Austrian students abroad could study under the same conditions as their commilitons on the ground. This fostered the awareness of Europe and its linguistic competence. The necessary expansion of scholarships would be ridiculously cheap compared to the savings in fixed costs of national universities and universities." Burger himself says that this is a rhetorical trick, which he uses here, the reductio ad absurdum, but it brings the matter, I think, very nicely to the point, that a reform of universities, a reform of tertiary education is unimaginable in purely economic terms. At best, this is still the case with, so to speak, exploitation-oriented sciences such as – God complains – economics or Jus studies and the like. But what about Egyptology, the fields of mental and cultural science, which are, so to speak, further away, convey reflection knowledge, but not exploitation knowledge? So the question cannot be what you need for economic growth – or whatever you use as a criterion here – but what you want. And that's a political question. That is, as it were, the deeper sense of the protests of the last four weeks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All these measures, which are now being debated, are under the title "structural reform", "structural accompanying laws" and so on. That must be quite a questionable vote. If it had at least just been called "budget-accompaniment laws", you wouldn't be so nervous. But "Structure-accompanied laws"? The structure here is to be characterized by a reduction in the duration of the study – this is a somewhat past history – in the case of cultural sciences on six semesters – nowhere else would this be recognized as a master's degree – by a reduction in the contract compensation – that is our topic today – by 30 percent to 50 percent. The case with the works contracts could also play a major role at university level – not directly in the teaching assignments, but in the context of research projects. Many young researchers and scientists are saving themselves through the rounds with research assignments. These contracts could now become more expensive – not for any contract of work – but more expensive. And, of course, the reduction of the ministerial research funds within the framework of the normal budget or within the framework of the funds. I'll be back later. I do not want to raise any misunderstandings here. You know, I'm a professor and, in that case, unsuspecting. I argue here for the interests of the assistants, students and also the external readers. Personally, I am hardly affected by this budget package, apart from the reduction in audit fees. I'll survive. There is no doubt that in the next two years, in the context of cuts in expenditure, there will still be a lot to do with us. But I assume that we too will survive. We professors are not existentially threatened, it would be ridiculous to do so. And that says no rector, no dean, and no normal professor. But in the context of the assistants and the external readers, there may well be cases in which there can be great, even existential difficulties. Federal Minister! It is different from faculty to faculty. For example, the role of external readers in the SOVI faculty is typically relatively low; perhaps not quantitatively, but qualitatively low. These are typically exercises from accounting, cost accounting, and so on, which can be allocated outside. But in the field of classical humanities, philosophy and all these disciplines, external readers often have a great innovative potential. I was surprised to learn that about 70 percent of the courses were held by external readers at the Institute of Contemporary History at the University of Vienna, not by professors and assistants, but by external readers! – Differently, from the lecturer to "down" – under quotation marks – to people with a doctorate. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: With what qualification? Are these magisters, Doctors?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Stippel.]] Mr Commissioner, I'll be right back to that. Again, just for a reminder: Please take seriously not only the protests of the 40,000 – you might see that like this – but also the resolutions of the academic Senates and similar institutions seriously. That's not a professional revolution! I already know that among our colleagues, Mr Lukesch, some haferl that explodes on every occasion. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Dr. Lukesch is such a haferl, is it?]] I didn't mean him personally. But in general, these protests are borne by concern for the future of teaching at universities in the coming years. Now I come to the heterogeneity of the structure and why some may be existentially threatened. Let us, for example, take the external readers, Mr Posch. When I was Dean, for example, we had a conflict at the university. A section head of the Ministry of the Interior, whose name I do not call here, had a renovated teaching assignment with us. We had too little money for teaching assignments. That's what we said: Well, Mr. Section Head may be willing to read this on a collegiate basis. This has registered the biggest difficulties and a lot of trouble, although I would assume that a section manager cannot be existentially threatened if he receives a non-remunerated job instead of a revitalized teaching assignment. But there are others, less at the Sowi faculty, rather at the mental and basic and integrative scientific faculties that have no employment; for example, people with a doctorate at the Habilitation stage, who have not found a job as an assistant due to the blocked positions at the institutes, but are also active in the field of research. This means, for example, through the Austrian National Bank and the like, research commission for research on the fund for the promotion of scientific research, but rather in the economic field, and then for two hours, it may be four hours of teaching in the semester. They live on the minimum of existence because they simply want to work scientifically, but do not have a normal job as an employee or an official on time. For these people, 10 or 20 percent are now, let alone 30 percent reduction in teaching assignments is a very incisive thing – for me not, but for these people it can be very incisive. I just ask you to consider this heterogeneity of the university structures and also of the university "personnel" – under quotation marks; these people do not belong to the staff under service law. One and the same measure may have a completely different effect depending on which faculty and which fields of study – even within the faculty – are concerned. Especially in humanities and social sciences in the most general sense – except perhaps economics – this can become very, very delicate. I'm just saying: Once again, it is also a problem that affects women and men differently. Among the professors, the men have a share of about 97 percent. For teachers as a whole, men have a share of about 75 percent – women always reflectively. For external readers, however, women have a 50 percent share. So, especially in those areas which are economically worst placed and most at risk, we have the highest proportion of women by far. Now I do not want to spare you a few figures because I am surprised how positively my colleagues Stippel and Luke have described the budgetary situation. The Fund's funding for scientific research, Mr. Collegue, is falling from 1996 to 1997 – also compared with 1995. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: From 1995 to 1996, they are rising strongly!]] It may be. In 1995 it was 692 million schilling, in 1997 it was 600 million schilling; these are budgeted. In addition, there is a kind of use commitment by the Federal Minister for Science to provide additional donations from privatization proceeds of the FWF. This is just one – as I should say – good-will explanation. It's not budgeted. This also depends on the privatisation proceeds and how many of them will be. This is not more than a use commitment. In an analogy, the Research Fund for the Industrial Economy FFF looks at it. [[Abg. Dr. Stippel: But this does not belong to this ministry!]] Okay, you can say the FFF, unlike the FWF, is uninteresting. But the picture fits in with the fact that the FFF's funding from 1995 to 1997 will also be cut to nominal and real, apart from being below the EU average at all. Mr Stippel! As far as Chapter 14 is concerned, according to the volume of the Minister of Finance's budget statement, the budgetary appropriations for 1997 are not only real but also nominally below the 1994 budget. You can calculate what that really means: it's quite a decline! Even if you look at the functional breakdown of the overview 21 in this document, you will find that the university funds from 1994 to 1997, i.e. in four years, are not only not increasing, but are even slightly nominal, i.e. they are going down much further in reality. I cannot discover particular optimism regarding budgetary expenditure here. I would like to say a few words about university autonomy. After all, some rectors, deans, professors and so on have agreed in principle to achieve reduction targets, stabilisation goals, consolidation goals when they are transferred into their own responsibility. This does not go without saying, however, that different legal changes are necessary before, because the universities are still tied in a narrow corset of laws, regulations, decrees and so on. Only keyword-like: Service and remuneration law, budgetary law, of course, including the relevant rules of conduct in detail, e.g. a lack of choice between staff expenditure and expenditure on property. All of this can only be changed in the context of an administrative reform – we all know that – but just as important is what Mr. Frischenschlager has already mentioned: Flexibility in the context of the study and audit regulations. I am quite sure that everything will not be offered at every university. Mr. Ortner wrote in today's "Economics Week" in one of his usual scored articles – according to the following –: As with the hospitals, there must be a focus. He expresses this much more sharply, but that is the meaning of the article. To a certain extent, this focus is already available now – for example, one cannot study medicine at any, but only at three universities – but it should be much stronger, with the possibility of independent profile of also related faculties, for example in the field of economics; but not when it is decreed by the minor place, but we would like to decide for ourselves. To give you just one example: My faculty, the Sowi Faculty of the University of Vienna, would have like to have carried out the course of study of Business and Economic Informatics independently. This is not possible, however, because the law states that it must be carried out together with the TU Vienna. There we can put ourselves on the head, the ministry has said: No, that's not what we want, and that's why we can shake our wish. Second example: I think my faculty is just as willing as everyone else to think energetically about how de facto study periods can be shortened – in the field of Master's degree. At the same time, however, we believe that in the field of doctoral studies the study should be extended and, at least, made more difficult. This is, as it were, a purely factor policy matter beyond the legal provisions of the study. But these are all covered by laws and regulations, and universities have no room for manoeuvre in these things. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: With good will a lot goes!]] But you know as well as I do that too... [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: For example, quality standard!]] You can agree. But the strange fact that the examinations in the course of the doctoral studies are concluded is that, if everything has already been done, the rigours are the main thing: the dissertation, is a farce. In decades of efforts to clarify this to the ministry, it has not been possible to change that. Such examinations are, of course, part of the start of doctoral studies. Today, unlike in the past, not everyone has to acquire the doctorate. In this context, my faculty – I suspect, yours too – operates politics to enforce quite Anglo-Saxon standards here. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch]] The PhD is traditionally slightly different from the doctorate of Central European cutting, for example in the fifties, in order to go down as far as possible. Only voluntary policy requires that all colleagues join in. As part of the study plan, you cannot do anything because it is prescribed and dictated by the study regulation – a highly unsatisfactory state. Mr Stippel! They have criticized the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Vienna and have rationally said that the Dean or the professors there have duly carried out the law order. If I am not very mistaken from the origins of my studies, there is a legal principle – unfortunately, I do not have the Latin wording in my mind – which reads as follows: No one can apply anything that is impossible to do. That's easy. I do not know the conditions at the medical faculty, but at my faculty it would be quite easy to give us an assignment that we cannot carry out. You only need the teaching assignments available to the faculty to reduce 30 percent – to name any number. Now, for example, in the first part of the study, for some exercises, you are applying for 400 people, the hearing room is 56 people, so you have to offer the exercise seven or eight times. But that depends on whether you have the teaching assignments for it. If you don't have them, you just can't offer so much. If you can't offer so much, you have to rationalize differently. If I'm properly informed, the dean of the medical faculty just said: The offer must be rationalised under the new conditions, and it does not do so, which is to be done by the Minister. If the Minister makes this rationalization, then within the scope of the possibilities, the study will be possible, but not in the context of impossible conditions. That's all, and you can't blame him for not doing that. Federal Minister! I know, of course, that negotiations are under way – even if it is a bit bizarre that we first pass a law and then negotiate with the hope of renovating and amending the law that has just been adopted within a few months. Nevertheless, it is welcome that any action of this kind will take place at all, even if it also shows that the previous process has been overcrowded, and it is not understandable to me, because within the framework of the 110 billion package, these 300 million to which it comes essentially in the medium-sized sector would not have been necessary at all. As part of the overall package, this is a disappearing size and has only achieved this Virulence because it concerns a very small and delicately exposed group of people. I appeal to you to repair what is to be repaired until the beginning of the winter semester, while also taking into account the heterogeneity, complexitys of the university that I have tried to sketch a little. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38625	Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Scholten spoke. – I ask for your contribution, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38649	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reply in advance to Mr Van der Bellen's last wording. I think you have the formulation: 100 billion does not amount to 300 million! It would not teach economically. I think that in the combination of economic truth with political necessity we have to see the matter in such a way that we cannot allow a particle-like – if the individual part is also objectively small and subjectively larger – to analyze; that is, to analyze already, but not the relativization of the need. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first address and answer specific specific questions that have been raised. First of all, research funding: It is an essential part of this budget, as far as Chapter 14 is concerned, that the funds available for research funding have not been reduced, nor have they been equal, but have been increased by 10 per cent in 1996 and, for 1997 there is a corresponding agreement and commitment by the Minister of Finance, that we can have privatization funds in the framework of research funding, to an extent that certainly allows the argument that research funding will continue to increase in 1997 compared to the increased level in 1996. I am already at a fundamental point in this package or in the design of the university budget. It would have been easier – I think I have already said this here – to place the necessary part that falls into Chapter 14 differently; otherwise, in the sense of resistance-free. However, I really believe that we would have taken steps that would have contradicted the idea that we would secure the future and make the future possible and that we would also be able to secure the future financially. Without a doubt, we could have taken back simple research funding and not allowed it to rise. A protest would probably have been protested in a debate here in the House and in other very professional debates, but never, never, in this broad form, would have been political debate. 400 million schilling from the research funding is an amount that would have affected research funding in a disastrous way, as all those working in the scientific field will agree with me. But there would have been little public excitement about it. 400 million schilling from the investments available to the universities, from an amount that is not quite 2 billion schilling, would not have triggered any reactions in the form of a broad debate, but would have destroyed something that could be achieved thanks to God, a relatively high level of investment available to the universities. I think that, in the face of all difficulties, with all the rights of various objections, and with all the democratic rights of course, we have had to protest accordingly, particularly to engage in those areas where these structural inequalities and injustices actually exist, which we have done, albeit in a different budgetary situation, under more convenient conditions. I do not want to repeat what has been said more often today and on previous occasions, namely, how uneven the starting positions of the individual were in terms of their formal quality or qualification and what inequality between the various institutions was and is in terms of their starting position as regards the remuneration of teaching. It is also clear that the very different reactions of the different faculties, within different faculties – such as medicine – and also between different universities could finally be statistically accompanied by the starting position of these institutions, persons, parts of organizations. I do not deliberately say "indebtedness" and not "to have responsibility" but experience it, because they can't do anything for the system to develop in the way it has gone ahead. This does not change, however, even if they can't do anything to correct it, because we à la longue could in no way have made an offensive extension of this system against the background of this uneven starting position. That is to say, we have chosen the perhaps politically complex way of mixing from the point of view of some two things that do not directly belong together. We have gone the politically complicated way to say: It is a question of correcting the structure, because the structure is an unfair one, and this on the occasion of the need to save. This may appear politically too complicated, because one without the other would have been easier. Of course, even this 300 to 400 million schilling, which is always mentioned in the personnel sector, would have been easier if one had simply made linear cuts in the existing system and thus had caused a very uniform – but evenly in the sense of past injustice – consequence. I therefore believe that we can be quite different in terms of acceptance, but also in terms of the compatibility of savings. However, I believe that the fairness of the argument has to be separated from the structural steps which are contained in the laws which are being debated here today, which clearly have the objective of ensuring that the teaching is more transparent, just and, as I believe, more structurally meaningful than is the case at present. In this context, the situation of the readers has to be addressed, and this has been mentioned frequently. And I ask you to see this – politically speaking – very differentiated. There are two key points, two extreme points in the view of the situation of the readers. One means: Anyone working at a university, whether employed in the sense of employment or not – whether this is a university member in the real sense or whether it is a purchased benefit – shall be treated equally in the sense of consideration and, if you wish, the obligation to take care of an employer and to take into account his social situation. But then, consistently – and I say this now only with a limitation in my function, I would rather expect this as an argument from Rudolf Burger – also take into account every commercial company whose services are purchased, with regard to the price, with regard to its social situation. – I’m saying I don’t compare readers with commercial companies, but it’s purchased services. That means, on one side is the position: We are primarily social in order to take care of and care of the employees of the university, and at the same time we buy benefits, benefits in kind, services, at a marketable price, at the same time as we are able to receive good services. On the other hand, if you want to, there are other extreme situations or arguments, and this is: Whether a person is employed at the university, whether he is a university member or not: In the moment he has to do at the university, for example, as a lecturer, this sentence is no longer to be treated according to market conditions, but according to the social situation of the provider. I would now like to draw a line under these two positions and say: The truth – not because we are now looking for a compromise with great effort – is probably the truth in the perception of responsibility, in so far as we are very likely to buy performance at market prices, admitted performance which we cannot achieve internally for many reasons – qualitative but also capacity reasons. On the other hand, of course, we cannot, as it were, beckoned over a large number Those who are concerned are going away and saying: You offer on a free market and finally, out, the rest of you don't care about us. But I would ask you to take into account that it is not about university members in the narrower sense, but about purchased services, whose price has to be primarily based on market conditions. It was also said that several hundred posts could be used a short time ago, so-called existential lecturers, namely those who teach a high number of hours at universities, to take up the status of employees and thus to secure them in this respect. And now we see – and this is a not uncritical situation, one must also say, taking into account their social situation – that, although these many hundreds have been taken up, among those who teach only a few hours, in part, very few hours, in turn, are those where we are held back: Their price cannot be determined by the market, we must be able to create, as it were, viable incomes. And then the system, even with so much social commitment, begins to eat in good German, because sometime – and we are not far away – the argument is cited: Someone has two teaching assignments, and if he can't live on them, it's socially unbearable. And that's not going to happen any more. We are still discussing at the level of five or six teaching assignments, but this is a step-by-step system on which we are, as it were, increasingly marching down. So we will be very well - and I think that this law, which is under discussion here today, takes account of it - to take into account the existential situation of readers. But we have to keep in mind somehow that we are buying external services here. Mr. Deputy Frischenschlager referred to the University Study Act and, so to speak, distributed "good" and "bad". On one point I would be very right to give you, and I am not afraid to say this publicly: If we had known in detail the family policy measures of spring 1996 at the time of the draft study law – and this is now well a year behind – then I would not have proposed that we go back to six semesters. If we had known in detail the enormous relevance of the minimum duration of study for students with regard to their social security a year ago, we would not have proposed these six semesters a year ago – I repeat this consciously. First, we did not know them, and second, this law has been reviewed. This review – and we have received some 300 opinions on this – has served the discussion rather than the decision-making process. That means I'm right about you. The question of the six semesters must be considered differently in view of the family policies that are now being put in place. It is not only visible from the point of view of study organizers. I guess the combination question is different. I believe that combined attractiveness should be guaranteed in a law, including consultation and organisational arrangements to enable and even recommend combinations. But I believe that the requirement of combination as a condition is wrong, and that is still the requirement of a combination within a limited study direction package. We should be motivating the combination, cross-border work, but not prescribing it. I do not want to go further in detail because this would take too long, but we will still have the opportunity to debate these issues here, but also outside Parliament, and we will have to do so. Mr Lukesch referred to flexible solutions for anatomy courses. - That's so easy to say now. I ask you how the response to the general situation of the medical faculties regarding their sympathetic involvement in scientific distribution conflicts would have been compatible with special arrangements for anatomy courses. It is also very different – which is not currently observed in the public debate – in the preclinical and clinical fields. This discussion, which took place in the ministry today, had, by the way, been agreed before these decisions were taken. As for this constantly recurring accusation – not now raised by you, but again and again by various other sides – one should only speak timelyly: At some point one can no longer make up for conversations in such a timely manner that it is not subsequently said that one should have spoken in a more timely manner. Many of the organisations mentioned here today have, of course, been involved in these discussions at a very early date, as those to be consulted and heard and involved. In the context of the fact that I have already said this to the general public, I recognize that we had to negotiate with the higher education union. The fact that we are continuing the negotiations to which other organisations are involved is very positive and as good and constructive. But this does not change the fact that it is necessary for the higher education union to represent the concerns of higher education teachers at the social partnership level. With regard to the acceptance of the higher education union, it is said: If we now call into question a negotiating mandate from the higher education union, then the first would be a break with the Uzances and with the practices that we have agreed on, and it would of course be a triggering moment for the higher education union to no longer be able to speak rightfully for those affected if it did not even find acceptance as a negotiating partner. I believe that this balance can be maintained. Furthermore, both at the first round of talks and today at the first round of formal negotiations, it is practically apparent that there is no contradiction between the arguments put forward by individual university organizations and the arguments put forward by the representatives of the higher education union. So it's not like there are big differences here either. But it is good that these discussions or negotiations are now being continued in a wider context. It was also said to the medicine: Today's discussion has shown that, of course, in view of the laws before the discussion, the accused Manko is very large if we do not take the transitional provisions into account. This was an essential point of today's discussion that the transitional provisions are, of course, very likely to be used to quantify the offer available for the winter semester of 1996/97 and beyond. So what you can do is to criticise a law and at the same time ignore provisions – that is not what you did, but representatives of the medical faculty – which are included in this law, namely the transitional provisions, that is, a good part of what matters to... Well, you doubt; that is so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But does the Dean Gruber have to go to the exclusion room?]] I do not understand this either because, as a result of the simple discussion today, within one and a half hours, a large part of what has been claimed to Manko is already equivalent only by taking into account the transitional provisions. And by the way – and I will be brief at the end of the day – it is also a matter of a sense of responsibility. But before I come to the point, I would like to take up a few practical comments here. The triple load: It is true that in the category of university assistants and university assistants there are taxpayers, officials, that is, members of the public service, and university members. Now, however, it is fair to note that a large part of what is contained in this package does not concern university members. If you take the entire area of multi-services, which is a non-essential part of it: This does not affect university members. I want this and can't put it in the extreme, because there are, of course, components that hit one behind another, but so flat-rate by taking part in three packages to 100 percent is not. It is true that the resources of Chapter 14 have increased from 1994 to 1995 and from 1995 to 1996/97 in the budget available to universities and universities of art. If, as a result of changes – that would be my presumption, but this was clearly stated – the Federal Ministerial Act in 1995 for example resulted from the exclusion of the National Library shifts, then one must really separate them from one another. It is also not the case that autonomy – and with this point one has to deal with carefully – should allow for unlimited shifts. I am a great supporter of autonomy, so that this is not called into question. I believe, however, that the State or taxpayers have the right to pay attention to the fact that the current situation of the universities must not result in x-anything, e.g. from research funds to human resources credit or from investment to human resources. I believe that we should maintain a few but a few classifications. Finally, let me just say something about the basics, and that will be here today... Please? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Please get to the post plans! These scams!]] There is a very simple response to the post-posting plans, which can be read from the sub-heading of Chapter 14, namely that the resources available for staffing have not been reduced, that the extent of what is necessary in the case of automatic increases in beekeepers' cuts should be increased themselves, but that there should be no further reductions in staffing. That is what I have always said, which is now in the separate issue, and that is why it will remain the same. Therefore, a simple comparison of numbers in Chapter 14 shows that this reduction does not go beyond what is true for the whole area, namely that the automatic increases should be made, but nothing more. This was also negotiated individually with the universities, individually presented. It is always asked the same question, which is everyone's good right, but it does not change the fact that the same answer is true again and again. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The last point – and this is a fundamental one: We are currently discussing – I would like to say this clearly – the importance of universities in our society. I think this is a very high priority. I also consider the need for the state to appreciate this importance very highly. I only think that this also gives rise to a responsibility to the universities of society, to the students, sometime to themselves, when it comes to understanding between the university and the population falling apart or breaking. I believe that we are doing well – and this will also be a political task – to ensure very quickly that the understanding of the non-university population is restored to what is happening at the universities. I believe that this is very, very important for the future of universities. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38717	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38738	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can take a short look because, in his reply, the Federal Minister gave a very comprehensive and detailed reply to the first round. I shall confine myself only to a few points raised by Mr Frischenschlager: We do not want to give any thought to anything, we have noted this with Chapter 14, Chapter 14, which is increasing from 20 billion to 30 billion schilling in recent years, and it is also experiencing increases from the years 1995 to 1997, from 29.7 billion to 30.1 billion schilling. This is not a lot, I admit, but it is at least an increase and corresponds to the other budgetary situation. I would like to point out in detail that there has been a considerable increase in funding for the high school institutions, particularly for the construction and renovation of student homes and for the management of people, ranging from 2.5 billion schilling in 1995 to almost 2.9 billion schilling in 1997. Investment support for student homes is also increasing to a very positive extent, from 167 million Schilling in 1995 to 227 million Schilling in 1997. As far as funding for studies, scholarships and gift grants is concerned, an increase from 1.1 billion schilling in 1995 to 1.4 billion schilling in 1997 is planned, and that is nothing! I also regret a little – and I have to say this critically – that the fund for the promotion of scientific research has been cut short, very clearly. That's a little wormhead drop. As far as the universities and the scientific institutions are concerned, the reduction primarily concerns the expenses, i.e. the remuneration of teaching activities, of remunerations. There is a reduction of 707 million Schilling in 1995 to 528 million Schilling in 1997. Let me say a few things about the structural adjustments: On the one hand, I think it is positive that Minister Scholten has succeeded in reducing the originally planned 400 million schilling savings to 365 million schilling savings, and this corresponds to the budget arythmics in the rest of the budgets. Although there are reductions in the amount of remunerations of 15 percent, plus the withdrawal of special payments of up to 30 percent – that is already very, very much – it is important to ensure, above all, that the volume of teaching orders is ensured that the study firm and the quality of the offer are guaranteed and that the teaching firm is not restricted. I think that's important. I also believe that the overall income loss in this group is reasonable. It is a socially excellent group, it is a group which is also equipped with a very high social prestige, although I assume that there are very strong systemimmanent breaks, which are very abrupt and therefore make a new right of service and remuneration urgent. In the present system, there has been great differences in the rates of pay, so the fact that assistants will continue to exercise their independent teaching in the course of their service is to be welcomed in principle, even though I consider the limitation of self-employed teaching to assistants with a doctorate rather than with Magisterium to be superfluous and formalistic. In principle, however, it is to be welcomed when the institution of teaching assignments returns to its original form, namely to bring out-of-university experts with reclaimed teaching assignments to universities. The non-explainable differentiation between renovated and non-reunified teaching assignments will therefore no longer exist in the future. I also think that the division of examination compensation in the responsible cooperation of assistants is positive, because it corrects an old, immoral state, namely that professors co-cash without cooperation. For me, the important thing is to maintain free access to universities in principle. I consider the threats of individual faculties to be inappropriate and unnecessary, as well as the excitement of some professors, because the billing of independent teaching in Austria is certainly not bad in international comparison. However, I would very much like to distinguish between the students. I believe that the real interests of this savings package are students and not academic staff, because both measures do not differ according to income, both the time limit on family aid and the abolition of free movement. In addition, there is a public service stop, so that it cannot be ruled out that there is an increase in the number of young academics unemployed, especially since 70 percent of young academics work in the state sector. In the future, they will have to look for jobs in the private sector and put pressure on masters, such as trade academics and so on. This means that an employment package for young people, including a reduction of overtime for older people, would be urgently needed to prevent injustices. The real hardships are the serious changes in pension law, the increase in the minimum period of insurance, the Repurchasing of school and study periods, of which women in particular are double affected. In other words, I think that there is no real concern in academic middle-level construction and not in professors at all, but the real impact is mainly due to the cumulative effects of the students: This is the reduction of the family allowance, which represents an amount of 22 500 s, which is the removal of the amount of the child's discount, an amount of 4 200 S – the removal of the ASVG co-insurance, which corresponds to about 5 000 S, the reduction of the free movement – an amount of 4000 S. If we still charge energy taxes and special expenditure, this will bring quite a burden and concern. That is why I have great sympathy for the concerns of the students, and I appeal in particular to Minister Bartenstein to look for solutions. ==References====External links==* Official website If life is abolished, there will be a serious disadvantage of day-to-day commuters among students and regional disadvantages will be further increased. Since the situation had already worsened seriously by the removal of the 1995 transport cost aid, Minister Bartenstein was urged to negotiate with the transport operators in order to reach a satisfactory solution. In my view, the planned grant of travel costs in the context of the private sector administration, i.e. without legal entitlement and with a donation of 4.5 percent of the grant budget, is not sufficient to compensate for the removal of free journeys or the cost of travel aid. § 6, the reduction of the age limit for applying the study allowance from 40 to 30 years, is only a small group in numbers, but is also unfair, because it is a significant difficulty for studying women with children and students in the second course of education and is also opposed to the thesis of lifelong learning. Similarly, the payment of the family allowance only creates up to a minimum duration of study plus two semesters or a maximum age limit of 26 years hardness and injustices in many areas, such as in the field of technical and natural science, in the medical field and so on. The fact that children of self-employed and agricultural and forestry workers are blatantly preferred in the award of grants to aid beneficiaries from workers' families as a result of income assessment also requires urgent reform of the applicable law. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is what I think is the real hardness, and there are changes and adaptations made urgently in order to compensate for the hardships of the students, because I am very likely to take seriously the strikes of the 40 000 on the road.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38831	Mr Grollitsch has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38853	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Professor Lukesch, because you're close to me: A Venia docendi in logistics, according to your criticism of colleagues Krüger and the unlawful reverse that he is against a slender state, if he is against this structural law, will certainly not receive you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But he didn't show it!]] Federal Minister! They have brought the universities to the point of interest. This is a rare thing, because the universities usually have a shadow existence in this country; however, that they are mainly disaster reports and have only references to the savings and load package, of course the publicity aspect is very sad: "Rebellion against Scholten", "Uni Wien explains the war to Scholten", "Uni-Sparpaket aan der Skandalgrünz", "Streik at the Universities", and so on and so on. If I take the word strike into my mouth, I should like to tell you, Federal Minister, that the liberals in no area have poured oil in this university space fire. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The RFS has called for discretion and negotiation, and up to our President in his capacity as a science politician has been repeatedly called to return from the street to the negotiating table; of course, this has only been reported through media in the form of the unofficial censorship. To the opposite direction – from the negotiating room and from the working table to the street – the "G-ler" or the greens, which are currently completely full of absence, have been called. I happen to be there – really by chance! – ladies are allowed to observe or have to observe Stoisits, Chamberlanders and Petrovic when they mixed together on the occasion of a large demonstration among the studying demonstrators. Mrs Petrovic – wherever you hear me or not – is very detailed: One of the few disguised people in this class has embraced you to welcome you very friendlyly, and you have subsequently used a offered microphone to ask the students to appear again daily: "Because we'll make them soft, I've pulled the tape, come back again and again every day until the package is open. They have no chance against you in the long run." However, let us not overestimate this call for sinterous street argumentation, especially since the articulated demands and concerns of students are largely true. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have long since been not satisfied with the structural adjustment laws that become - at least in the short term - and would like to articulate here only three main accusations: first, to come to the condition, the type of the same, second, to the lack of success and third, concerning a few small details. First of all, I would like to quote the highly slandered article by Rector Otruba of the WU with two sentences: "It contradicts the rules of political reason to carry out profound reforms without democratic consensus with those concerned." – Had you done this in time, you would have saved yourself a lot of trouble. "The imprecise argumentation," Otruba continues, "in the public, the impression is that the politicians responsible were not willing to deal seriously with this problem. Finally, the discussion was manipulated by even presumptuous and emotionalizing words by the completely uninformed clubmen Khol and Kostelka in an insidious way." If in this order one has had to observe and have been allowed to observe the procedure in the last two months, then one is not very surprised by such statements, words and apparently not contradicted statements which were not even relevant to the courts. All attributes of authoritarian and undemocratic tactics and dialectics are based on the creation and publication of the structural laws and their decision-making, in any case, on: instead of critical enlightenment of the state of Is primarily on rumors, mixed with envy, based on over-the-dums assessments; instead of conceptual work without time pressure including those concerned, as said, unbridled, partly fixed plans, behind closed doors; instead of realistic assessment periods, a fraction of the bodies by actually ridiculous alibi deadlines; instead of referring to democratically elected bodies and offers of variants and the opportunity to introduce alternatives, it was often criticised here in this House in this debate and from many sides. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In all, this is undoubtedly a step backwards in the development of democracy, which in fact makes it clear that new forms of democracy, which are closer to citizens, appear appropriate in our country. For meeting safety: With the adaptation laws 1 690 professors were barely met, 7 279 assistants were partially sensitive, around 4,000 external lecturers were strong to very strong and certainly more than half of the 230 000 Austrian students were very strong to fatal as to their studies. However, you also met in particular the planned mood of departure at the universities in connection with the UOG 1993 and the democratic efforts it has promised. Why did you not make the necessary savings – I may have asked yesterday – to try nails that the universities are powerful enough to manage themselves and their money? – In fact, this has not happened, but the structural adjustment laws have completely incisive and completely different regulations in the details – a lot of imagination was wasted, in the hourly cuts, in the allocation forms, in the remuneration heights et cetera –; the gag, the am-Zaum-halten was anyway retained by these laws. Instead of saving intelligently, save on intelligence – and that in a sense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, two small details. The first thing I can do if I can: The science budget employs about a third of a PhD for the physical care of listeners at universities for about 45,000 participants. A good part of it is spent on teaching lessons for external instructors in the context of re-entered teaching assignments. In 1994/95, this was 1 100 hours or about 2.8 percent of the teaching contracts. Because of the conversion key to the C-valued practical teaching assignment of 0.5, this at the time showed about 2 000 sports hours for the said listeners. Now 10 percent of savings had to be made twice, and a new 0,66 quota for the C teaching contracts will only bring 1 300 lessons in the next study year, so 700 units have fallen victim to the savings package. This is a relatively small detail and yet a large incision in this area. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to pay attention to this seeming detail and to help the university sport to which you, as we know, are extremely balanced. Finally, a point which would also bring a rather ridiculous and quite different savings, which could have unpleasant consequences for students in particular: a change in the compensation for examination work. I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38973	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mrs. Dr. Brinek has now been reported on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e38998	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Let me start by starting with a few remarks in the sense of corrections. I'm not presumptuous, but I think Leoben's body proficiency expert Dr. Grollitsch wouldn't get Venia docendi either in logistics or logic. There's a difference. Our scientist Professor Lukesch is still capable of logical analysis. The auditorium was convinced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] A note that is important to me: At the end of his speech, the Federal Minister, as well as the speakers in the MEPs, gave an opinion on the subject of study reform, although it is not an explicit subject of discussion. Minister! I think it is a very, very hard-to-understand logic if you link the study reform with the family burden compensation. I don't see this alone; from Alexander's words Van der Bellens, Freizenschlager and others were clearly recognizable: We agree that the study reform has an independent objective, that scientific education must be defined independently. And the question of whether cultural sciences should last three, six or nine semesters is to be assessed separately and for itself from a separate logic. I am relatively happy about the results of the family tax compensation, the family support that our Minister Bartenstein has achieved – relatively because rural youth is still not overrepresented in the academic field, as was suspected here. We still have too few sons and daughters from farm families at our universities. Please don't make a false presentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few comments on the overall funding of studies: We have already heard that the volume has increased by 15 percent, and the approach to student homes is equally much higher. What about scholarships, tuition fees? In the last few days in Austria, the related issues have also been dealt with in detail. I think Austria can be very happy. We are at the forefront of funding for studies in Europe, even if we are adopting the current structural adjustment laws. No other country other than the Netherlands, for example, grants students free travel. However, reductions are common everywhere. In Austria, the federal railways, the urban transport networks to the students have so far earned well. Despite the fact that FLAF was a mass buyer, FLAF did not receive a reduction. I assume that Vienna too soon realizes that students are an important target group, an economic factor, a cultural recovery factor for the city, and that students in Vienna are treated by the Vienna transport companies in the same way as the elderly and receive a corresponding reduction. I am glad that other cities have already expressed themselves positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the Bundesbahn, too! Mr Sindelka is here anyway!]] And the Federal Railways too! I'd like to answer this call. The Federal Railways deserved the students well, and I think that the Federal Railways must continue to be interested in this consumer group. There must be a solution as to how we deal with these problems in the longer term. For tuition fees. – I have just been able to take a look at the daily "Kurier". The Graz university rector, Konrad, resumes the debate. In many EU countries, tuition fees are common, but, of course, not unstructured and unstructured. They are also linked in other countries, for example with study credits. The aid and loan system has a total systemic context, and of course we have to take this into account. Study fees have also been addressed by well-known foreign experts. I quote the reformer Peter Glotz, who also advocates the financial autonomy of universities. I like to put the overall context under the tag "Study Place Management". Study place management – for some this may sound like a socialist plan economic concept, perhaps some think of subscriptions or the like. That's not what it means. Instead, I see a more modern idea of collecting and linking all the necessary parameters in order to organise and finance access to universities and universities. What does that include? Among these are the discussion about the study organisation as well as the discussion on the law of study, and I think that we will certainly have the opportunity to do so in this calendar year. In particular, however, the assessment of the study entrance phase is part of this – one of the previous speakers referred to it. You can find answers to the questions: How helpful/senseful is the current form of introduction tutorials? How meaningful/helpful are orientation tests with formal consequences or with informal consequences? All those who at this point are reminded of recording examinations and who reject them with Schauder are reminded that, of course, recording examinations are held at the art universities in Austria. The model of the study entry phase practised at the University of Veterinary Medicine in Vienna should be analysed. There it is tried to link the successful further completion of the study to the positive completion of examinations in core subjects. Course management also means distinguishing between students who experience primary education and training and those who are continuing vocational training. How many studies will we be able to provide for free until we move to senior school and to pension? This question must also be clarified if we are thinking about the place of study management. Finally, the management of study places also means thinking about how to provide information on studies and courses of study in schools, the ÖH and many other institutions. Above all, the goal of university studies should be put to the fore again. There is also no expectation of maintenance: free university access, training guarantee, job guarantee. Of course, the current situation in the public service carries certain hardships, but that 70 percent of the academic population should "walk" in the public service cannot be the goal of university education. We are therefore not concerned about the fundamental discussion of the overall package. I also believe that there are many sensible forces that have become visible today. I would like us to hold the debate after the budget debate in an "unAustrian" way. UnAustrian – what do I mean by that? I refer to the reminder I recently found with the cultural generalist and aesthetic professor Bazon Brock. He said that when he left Austria as a university professor, what bothered him. What did he say? – "In each argument, any distortion or refraction was installed. There were hardly any knowledgeable, self - conscious, contentious people. The forward-looking self-arrangement was far ahead of rational intellectual argumentation". – Austrian university professors have also joined in this assessment. I conclude confidently: When we talk about the future of scientific education, we save ourselves several heads of the phrase! Let us enter the rational structural debate! I would like to say this as a university member and as a parliamentarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39061	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39083	Mr President. Federal Minister! My speech will not deal with science in general, but I want to deal with an important matter, namely post-structural reform. [[Abg. Mother: Science is also important!]] Science is also important – of course! But I am dealing with the hard facts, so I now allow myself to go on the post-structural reform. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Genesis of the Poststructural Reform, as other examples have already shown, is quite impressive proof of how the members of the Federal Government and their two extended arms here in the High House hold with parliamentarianism. If I use the word 'impressive', then it is because the club members and also the committee chairmen of the government groups really have all the registers with regard to the rules of procedure in place so as not to have as important a matter as the post-structural reform of regular committee consultation. We heard a lot yesterday from Mr Khol, and Mr Schwemlein has also expressed his opinion here that this would have been all in the right committee. I do not want to continue the debate in this direction. But there are still some peculiarities. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals already have in the XIX. The legislative period has brought in a fully matured proposal for a post-structural reform, which has been put to an early end to this legislative period in the Committee on Transport, we say, a lack of government compatibility. And I think that if Mr Parnigoni were present here in the hall, he would confirm it to me directly or indirectly. Ladies and gentlemen! But we will not be irritated by this kind of parliamentary treatment. We therefore also have at the beginning of the XX. The legislative period more or less reintroduced the same, unchanged application for initiative. And what happened? The same process has happened. This glaring spectacle has repeatedly come up with the intention of repressing itself before the content of the post-structural reform. In the meantime, even Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, as I have heard, has withdrawn his commitment to treat material already landed in the committees. So that's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. These are the naked facts, how reform ideas are dealt with, which do not fit into the concept of the Federal Government in terms of content! My in-depth criticism of the government template for post-structural reform is already set in § 1 para. 2 of them. That's what it's called lapidar: ==References== It is expected that the company will launch a stock exchange on 1 December 1999.' It may well be asked how this society, this post with many sub-areas in 1999 will look forward to how it is structured. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it will be tried to leave the post, as it is now, dressed in a new legal corset, more or less unchanged by the year 1999. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] And such a company is to be brought to the stock exchange, Mr Kukacka. So I can't imagine that at the best of will. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I have read this carefully, Mr Kukacka! But you're still going to speak. You can then express your views. I have precisely recorded your attitude on the question of post-structural reform. They have behaved as some have at the time of the turn in the GDR, where there has been the transition from communist to non-communist; "Wendhals" has been said to this once. I do not want to get any reluctance from the President now, but there is some parallelity. You also said yes once and then no again. Once: We agree! And then again: But that's not how it is! Mr Kukacka, you need an explanation – and not us! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I'm just quoting, colleague. If such an exchange is to come into question, I really have to ask myself how this should happen. So, as you clearly imagine, it will not be. Here I see some backgrounds that are not difficult to light up. Apparently, ÖVP and SPÖ did a business. Federal Minister for Climate Change may say that the post remains as a whole, or – its division – that: "I won't allow the mail to be smashed!" For this purpose, the ÖVP has carried out these rubber paragraphs, that one might go to the stock exchange at some point – quite nebulos it is formulated. So for me, it's very easy to see through. Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing I would like to say: Every exchange or any real privatisation must be carefully prepared. Nothing is going to happen, and improvisation in this sector is a deadly matter. That is why, in our own initiative proposal, we have also provided for a very clear breakdown of the operational affairs of the post in the form of legally independent subsidiaries. First of all, we expect the Austrian Post to be decommissioned, just as is provided for in the Government's proposal, but that is and can only be the very first step. In fact, in our draft, we have made it imperative that, within six months, the legally independent Post AG will distribute the three operating branches, namely Telekom as a stock company, yellow post as a GesmbH and the Postbus company as well as GesmbH. It is intended to separate it in such a way that the function of the stock company will then be considered as a mere holding company and reduced to this task. Ladies and gentlemen! More is really not necessary, because these three division societies have their hands full to do, to adapt to competition, to changed framework conditions, and a large ballast, especially a large holding structure with coordinated, cross-sectoral tasks, can really not be used. Ladies and gentlemen! Slight structures, lean management, as it is so beautiful, are asked, the foreign exchange, which is also subordinated to the Austrian post, for otherwise it will be broken by competition, and that can go very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned because I see that this is not done seriously and carefully enough. Yes, I am concerned because it is not in the interests of us liberals that the Austrian Post with its 55 000 employees will become a rehabilitation case. This danger is blatant, because, as you know, the Austrian Post was withdrawn over a period of more than six years and transferred to the federal budget than the company was able to achieve in this period of real, corporately comprehensible profits. That is where the ÖVP has watched, too, Mr Kukacka. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I wasn't in Parliament at the time, I'm sorry. With this argument, you can't come to me. This year, too, the Minister of Finance's wild access to the post continues to be rather preoccupied. I would like to remind you, Mr Federal Minister, that your colleague, the finance minister now famous, has received another 11 billion schillings: 4 billion Schilling monopoly tax on the current single operation at the GSM sector, another 3 billion in 1996 concession tax and another 4 billion in 1997, i.e. 11 billion Schilling. That's a good thing about the substance. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that one last time you're going to be strong, according to the motto "Behind the Flood", and then you want to go to the stock exchange. That seems rather paradoxical. But if you were planning this, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, then you would not have needed the controversial law. In order to ruin the post, it could also be done differently by formal law that such a project could be achieved much easier. There are other methods for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Another substantial criticism concerns the so-called post- and Telekom Austria's participation company or to German, as I like to translate it, "Postaltlastenfonds". Five years ago, in a secret study, the renowned consulting firm Booz Allen & Hamilton pointed out that, after its disbursement – planned at the time of 1994 – the post will have enormous difficulties realising the capital assets, because the valuation approaches for the assets are hardly sufficient to cover the debt of the post on the hands of the company. Ladies and gentlemen! The consequences have been fully recognised by the former Minister for Transport and Today's Finance. For this reason, he has also seen his way into the trick box, and the result is, as I have already said, the post- and Telekom Austria's participation company. Kurios is that this post- and Telekom Austria shareholder company is, on the one hand, the debtor of 50 billion schilling, but at the same time the owner of Post AG. – Very interesting and instructive. I believe that we do not need this type of debt holding at all. I'm just saying it out. As the owner of the new post, the Republic of Austria could just as well function. And if she had put the 50 billion schilling old loads directly into the federal debt service, that would have been honest at least and one might have found it easier to do in this construction. But honesty – that is what I am addressing to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP – has never been your great strength in this matter. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and the Freeman.]] You turned and wound up in this thing, I don't need to repeat it again. The criticisms on your government template can be continued at any time. I still have some of them, but I still have to bring you to your attention. They want to install a board of directors to include up to six board members. That's hair-threwing for me. Six Executive Board members and a Supervisory Board with 18 members are required, and the whole is then to be subject to the direct intervention of the Transport and Finance Minister as possible. That's what I'm really asking myself: What is this strange stock company, what is it like a strange construction? I mean, two members of the board also do it, with six or a maximum of nine Supervisory Board members you can find out completely. Everything else, in my view, can only serve once again to bring some people back to the pre-arrangement of the post with the party book economy – even if you write out, Mr. Federal Minister! I believe all of this to you. Formal is written out, but the posts are as I hear – I have already given good contacts to the post. We will still have a lot of theatre in this regard, and we will take a very close look at the matter. I would also like to point out that those in § 15 para. 2 derogations provided for – Mr Kukacka, hearing Please note – namely, that the Post company should not be subject to the working time law, the Night Labour Law, the night work ban for women, and that these provisions – and I am missing in your presentation – must, of course, be extended to all other companies operating in this industry in the future. There's no hint in there at all! Otherwise, there will not only be a distortion of competition, but there will also be a genuine flood of action at the European Court of Justice towards the Republic of Austria. Also § 15 para. 4 contains a serious material error. The post may be represented by the Financial Procuratorship as a majority owned by the Republic. Okay. However, it cannot be said that the advisory services of the financial procurator are more or less free of charge or are charged at very low rates, while any other undertaking in this sector must go to a lawyer, consult itself, march to court, and pay full length. If there is no clearer distinction here and if not specified in terms of content, then there is a very clear case of intentional infringement and distortion of competition, ladies and gentlemen. If this equal treatment is not ensured, there will be a flood of action. Federal Minister! You also need to be careful that it is after the 1st century. There are no assaults on July by officials who then no longer exercise authority, but are only more postal servants – and I fear that. If I look at the way in which radio surveillance is being carried out, for example, I have to say that there is nothing yet to be said about the fact that post officials will no longer carry on high-quality activities in the future. We'll see what the practice shows, at least we'll take care of what's happening. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of the government template on the post structure can be assessed with a summary statement as follows: The draft is based on completely incorrect assumptions, is not thought-through, material and formal flaws. In other words: The draft is not worth the paper on which it was written. We Liberals have developed a suitable model to which you do not want to approach, a model of real privatisation and not a sham privatisation, a model that is suitable for securing the future of the company. We will therefore continue to discuss it in the Committee whether you want it or not, whether you like it or not, even if between it and the 1. May lies, Mr Kukacka –: We will insist that we continue to deal with this matter. And in order that this proposal may not be used for another year in committee, we will be making a request for a deadline next week – unfortunately today, because of the Rules of Procedure, I am no longer able to do so. If he doesn't find a majority, then you can't do anything, but we've put a sign back with it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Rail Infrastructure Finance Act is a similar matter; it concerns something else, but it is the same procedure. My colleague Hans Peter Haselsteiner expressed himself in detail yesterday. I would simply like to complement his speech and address the question to you, ladies and gentlemen: What would happen? You are actually saying that if a company first creates a financial plan and then deals with questions of marketing, sales, the personnel industry, the material industry? – You would say that this company cannot work, this company is condemned to failure. The company's "Austrian infrastructure" – under quotation marks – is calling for the way to the financial departure to be preprogrammed. The federal road map, the federal transport concept, the list of priorities – there are some of these concepts that we always demand and which I also remember regularly – are not dealt with in parliamentary terms. Just what I would like to compare with marketing, sales and personnel in a company is simply not happening. We say: First, there's the money, and then we'll think about what we're doing with the money at all. I think this is a slight insanity. Nevertheless, we will need money for the railway infrastructure, which is not a question, but please only for reasonable projects. If I now see that the Minister of Finance and also the Minister of Transport are planning to proceed as a first step immediately from the trial or probe tunnel to build the Semmering Tunnel, although there is a much cheaper alternative in bypassing Austria with the south-east spange, then I, ladies and gentlemen, am already gay. However, we Liberals will not be able to stop us in the future from correspondingly addressing senseless infrastructure projects such as this Semmering base tunnel. Mr. Zukunftsminister! You must be careful that, in the face of such controversial individual projects, you do not escape control over them, otherwise I fear that this country will not go into a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39176	Mr Dr. Niederwieser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39197	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we are practicing something that is partly taking place at the universities, namely that we mix different disciplines with one another. I am now returning to science policy and universities, although transport policy has a lot of points of reference, starting with student transport, through the many faxes we have recently received, i.e. the mountains of letters, up to that – here the Minister of Transport has been addressed – which we could call as an ascent to an education route. This means that new technologies at schools and universities must also be part of this technology offensive. This can and will not be used up in building motorways and expanding schools. New technologies are needed, and that is something very important. Yesterday, in a German television show Mr. Peter Glotz spoke about the future of universities. He has also published a new book that he will be presenting in Austria shortly. And there's one thing that's shown up: The problems that we have been dealing with today and have been working on in recent months are not an Austrian particularity. In many countries, in many industrialized countries, we are considering how to transform the universities. And things that we have already predicted in the UOG, such as increased autonomy, are now being discussed in the Federal Republic of Germany. Today we have experienced an action from the gallery, namely that a leaflet of unknown origin has been dropped. It would have been interesting to find an imprint, not because of the prosecutor's office, but to know who to talk to. As a Member of Parliament, I have been in many discussions about the savings package in recent weeks and months. There have been many groups whether this was the workers, the employees, the pensioners or the teachers who said: You have to stay with the students, you have to stay hard at the universities, you can't give up – that is, almost as an assignment. And then I was also in many discussions at the universities, with students here in Vienna, and they, in turn, sometimes did not have unreasonable – that is, I want to say – and did not present undue concerns or describe cases where there is really a great deal of difficulty, such as the internships of microbiology, to mention just one example. In such a situation we have to decide, and there are some of us – I think we can say so – that these protests not only cause discomfort, but also anger. However, it is the responsibility of our politicians not to let dialogue be broken down in this situation, we must remain reasonable in this situation, we must continue to offer the discussion. There are legitimate interests that are represented here – sometimes with little insight into solutions, but I do not think that the objective of protest actions by the universities is to bring down the savings package as a whole or the budget or the Federal Government. This objective goes too far, and those who pursue this objective take a big risk, namely that they are no longer taken seriously enough, does not take them as seriously as they might be. In the end, they hurt themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress the role of Federal Minister Dr. Scholten and his officials here, and I would also like to thank them for the great willingness of dialogue, for the extraordinary that has been done here in order to continue these talks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has nothing to do with an authoritarian procedure, as Mr Grollitsch meant. And if you say that's democratic, then obviously everything you don't fit from the FPÖ or where you don't get through – and that's a lot – is not democratic. In spite of your criticism, we will not be held back and, as the democratically elected majority groups, we will continue to make the decisions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the new right of service, my colleagues and especially the Federal Minister have already said a lot. I think it is important that it also takes account of the importance and role of medium-sized enterprises into account and that it does not become too complicated. It is important that we do not create a service right with too many individual facets, which is then as difficult to carry out as the present one. We have structural changes to foresee. I would like to add to what the previous speakers have said: It is about the long duration of study, and it is about the use of resources. If you look at the current university study law, you can see that it contains the following – that has been decided by us as legislators –: From 52 weeks during the study year, 30 weeks of courses are scheduled to take place. That is to say, we should consider something in the new university study law, because the current regulation ultimately means that the audiences are partly overcrowded in these 30 weeks and about 40 percent of the year are empty. I know very well that the teachers are at the universities at these times, and I think that an extension could also work in the sense of shortening study periods. We will have to make some adjustments in the near future and observe exactly how this cost of travel will affect. In any event, it seems important to us that it takes account of regional specificities, i.e. that the greater distance and thus the higher costs should have a corresponding effect on this aid. Mr Brinek has already mentioned this issue: Overall, it is a redistribution of learning time, a redistribution of education time, which we are currently focusing on in the youth. In a society that has lifelong learning, we must also ensure that this lifelong learning is possible. We are also quite prepared to discuss new forms of financing and also new forms of fees. Some models are on the table. We should simply discuss this quickly in the next few weeks and months and come to an end. The savings package has a good thing: The reform pressure will be increased. We want to continue to have free access, regardless of the social origin of the students. But it is now about implementing the reform pressure generated by a rapid entry into these reforms, whether it be the university study law or also the service law, so that we can start on a new basis from this autumn onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39288	Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39309	Mr President. Mr Zukunftsminister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the fast train pace from the field of science back to the transport sector, at least in the broadest sense to a subject of the Transport Committee: Perhaps you should follow what Mr Firlinger – unfortunately he is no longer here – has broken up with regard to post-structural law. I personally do not think of a dogmatism in these questions, whether exclusion, privatization, or maintenance of the status quo. I can imagine this solution, as it is now designed, as a useful, common path. I believe that the details in the implementation area will be essentially addressed. In this context, it must be said that in some detail there are very massive weaknesses which are not corrected by this structural law, which are maintained, for example in the field of postal bus, for example in the area of improved coordination of the ÖBB PWD with the postal car service. It is true that, after this edition, the postal car service will be divided into two profit centres, namely in the workshop and in the bus service, each of which has to be profitable, successful, but, in my opinion, a combination with the ÖBB PWD would nevertheless have been a useful solution in the medium term, a sensible arrangement to provide parallelity, a parallel operation to strengthen the efficiency of a joint bus operation. The second area – which will have to follow a lot more – is the question of labour laws. I can imagine that it will be discussed in detail. What Mr Firlinger has not discussed here is the area of women's promotion, which would change with a disincentive, because at present there is a public service situation that, at least once on paper, there is a need for preference for women, and in the private sector there is another situation, namely equal treatment on paper. It would be important that what was promised to the Ministry of Women, namely, in disseminating this preference to women, such as the status quo on the paper, is actually preserved, recorded and guaranteed in the long term. The third area which we have often discussed in the past, which we have repeatedly negotiated internally with representatives of the post, which is obviously solved to my satisfaction, is the area of democracy policy not so insignificant special tariffs for newspapers, special tariffs in the shipping of newspapers for NGOs, for municipal councils, for independent citizens' lists et cetera. There's been a threat to this tariff. As we were assured by Director-General Sindelka, there is a cover of around 900 million schillings by the federal government. I assume that this is a sum enough. But I also assume that, when problems arise, a certain degree of flexibility is shown in order not to endanger this piece of democracy – and that is it – in the future. I think this is very essential and, I must say, positive, that it has been responded and that there has actually been no democracy-political disassembly of this special regime, this espionage of small associations, small groups that want to articulate in the public. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But at the speed of speed, continue in the immediate transport sector. We have an incredible task ahead of us. The new Minister for Transport, the Minister for the Future, knows the pitiful OECD report on Austria's transport policy and thus knows what destructive testimony Austria has received in this OECD environmental audit report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – Mr Colleague! That I read this test report, you will attest to me, and what is in it I take for beard coin. I would suggest that you read the environmental audit report as well, perhaps it would lead to a completely different transport policy, which is not just focused on construction. Mr President, I should like to thank I understand that lobbyism is important, I understand it, I know the connections, I know how it looks in the party. I know who you're close to. I know whose interests one must represent, but still! Mr Marizzi, that was not an injunction. [[Abg. Marizzi: That's a premise!]] I assume that the SPÖ and every party are committed to certain interests. Of course, the Greens are also committed to interests, namely the interests of public transport users, namely the interests of the environment, the interests of quality of life. You're right, and I'm going to open that up here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Mr Marizzi! It would be nice if your connections, your own interests in the direction of the construction industry would also be disclosed. But let us stick to this environmental audit report from the OECD on Austria, which you have often kept in the TV camera during the election campaign last autumn and from which you have proudly quoted certain passages that are actually positive: Cleansing the lakes – excellent testimony. There are also excellent classifications in other areas, but one should also put on the table what has been strongly criticized. The environmental audit report on Austria sets out a very crucial sentence on the transport chapter. It is formulated that there is an urgent need in Austria for a more environmentally friendly transport policy – an urgent need for a more comprehensive transport policy! And this finding is supported by terrifying figures, namely that Austria has the second highest growth rate in road transport in Greece, that road traffic has increased by 80 per cent between 1980 and 1991 and that this is the double value compared to the OECD average. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's not a good test. We all agree on this. This will also be confirmed by the new Minister for Transport. If we were to continue this curve, plus 80 per cent road traffic frequency from 1980 to 1991, then we could certainly not achieve a Toronto target in Austria, then we could also not achieve compensation for the ozone situation in the summer months. That is to say, we really have the most political and environmental need for action as a whole. - That's about this area. I am glad about every schilling – I have said this several times – which is being invested in public transport precisely because of this negative situation. The Greens are – and I believe everyone knows that – not a preventative party. We strongly support the promotion of environmental projects in the field of public transport. It is only difficult where the meaning of individual projects is concerned. It goes deep into the Ministry of Transport, deep into the ÖBB, deep into the industry and deep into the construction industry. [[Abg. Marizzi: Have you seen how many people transit from abroad to Austria? Do you know the numbers? Cars?]] Of course, Mr Marizzi, we have these figures, how many people transit Austria. You may have noticed some debate in this House, in which we have tried to address this – but not only here, but also on the road, also on the motorways. Especially in Tyrol there is a cross-party cooperation on this issue. I would like to see this cross-party cooperation, as it works in Tyrol, also for this High House – also in the Courage, as it exists in Tyrol. But let's look directly at this rail infrastructure financing law – it's not as complicated as its name – in detail. This rail infrastructure financing law, the SchIG, is de facto a restructuring law. It is de facto the legal level, the legal network for the infamous 60-billion-fact of Staribacher and climate of the 11th century. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is quite right that we should find a legal framework here. The question is: Is public transport actually served by investing 60 billion without prioritisation, without a clear definition, which projects need to be preferred, in which priority must be invested, without a list of priorities, or even without a federal road map? - I doubt it. It's an area. Secondly, I am convinced that we have to pay the refinancing with the 60:40 percent key and especially for the new construction projects operating funds on the part of the railway, whichever railway then uses these routes. This will, of course, result in enormous pressure towards cost increase for the ÖBB. That's not a question. In this context, I only recall the presentations by Director-General Draxler and Member of the Board of Directors, Hainitz, who charged a first tariff on Semmering base tunnels. If these numbers are voting – I have not been able to calculate them because we have not yet received the invoice in their details, but I have no reason to doubt this ÖBB account – then I have to say it is inconceivable. With regard to the Semmering base tunnel, there is a fixed commitment from the Minister that private refinancing and financing will be achieved. If the whole tunnel is actually refinanced, that would mean calculating a toll of 200 s per tonne of goods transported by the Semmering Tunnel. Everyone knows that the competitive chance of the railway would be finally over, because of course no sparker would be crazy enough to actually pay these astronomical tariffs. What would be the result if we were actually to land at these tariffs would de facto be a billion-hole Semmering base tunnel, which would have a terrifyingly low frequency. – That is why we believe that this Rail Infrastructure Financing Act, on the one hand, is a serious threat to the future of this company because of its lack of priority and, on the other hand, because of the massive burden of the future for the railways, for the individual kilometres that the railways travel on the rails. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We still stay at this Semmering base tunnel, which has fewer and fewer friends in the public and more and more critics, also in expert circles. You only need to read technical journals. You only need to read what is even in the journals of the Industrial Association. There is a black on the white picture that Austria, with this form of private financing, wants to achieve an empty hole in the long term, an empty tube of at least 6.5 billion schilling. This is a luxury – especially in a situation where in the field of transport associations, in the area of urban transport companies, in the field of public transport every schilling is missing and capital is needed for capital to create a fair, real competitive opportunity compared to the road transport mode. I think the cost will be more than that 6.5 billion schilling. We know the cost explosions at the junction Innsbruck. We know, for example, the cost development of the Channel Tunnel project. We know the Spanish tunnel projects, the costs of which have doubled to tripled. But let's assume it stays with this 6.5 billion schilling. Let us imagine – especially a railway driver as a MP would have to burn it under the nails – what we could achieve with 6.5 billion schilling in order to improve the quality of the railway if we were to invest in this company. [[Abg. Edler: Future!]] – In the future, yes, but the railway will have nothing, because if it has to refinance 200 s per tonne of goods for transport through the Semmering base tunnel, then it has no chance in comparison to the road mode at all. One now fully agrees on this in the ÖBB. That is also internally undisputed. I've talked to many on the track. Anyone who is semi-critical and semi-politically independent, which does not mean that party politics in this area would prohibit thinking – quite the contrary, there are also massive critics of this project in ÖVP and SPÖ – has expressed criticism. I understand that this project can be called for from a regional-political point of view, but that is, in my view, the only reason. In this respect, I would be interested in what the Minister of Transport has to say. For me, this question of Semmering-basistunnel is the actual nail test for whether this ministry actually becomes a Ministry of the Future, because we need a forward-looking transport ministry. But I assume that the Minister is looking at this project very concretely and very carefully, checking it in the area of these major areas of criticism before there can be a massive investment activity in this area. We all now know that there is a decision to establish a competition route for the transit of goods, a competition route from Budapest to the port of Koper. We all know that this route is significantly cheaper and will cost some 800 million schillings. We all know that this is only a small gap of 40 kilometres. [[Abg. Seidinger: I'm just wondering if you believe that!]] Mr President, I should like to thank They will be surprised that there are construction decisions on site. They will be surprised that there are decisions on the part of the EIB to pre-finance this project, quite unlike the Semmering Base Tunnel. And you'll be surprised that there's a Vienna paper – I don't know if it's telling you something – from the EU in which not the Semmering base tunnel, but this competitive rail is included. Let us now imagine that the predictions from Hungary and Croatia will actually be made and this project will be realized in 1998 – or let us say in 1999 or in 2000; I already know that there is also activity here and advertising for a project, that is quite clear – let us imagine that this project is done earlier than the Semmering Base Tunnel, which is to be expected due to the completely different construction needs, and then I think I am negligently to build on a Semmering base tunnel in this form, my ladies and gentlemen. I don't know what the ÖVP's position is about this. There are massive critics of this project in the ÖVP. The head of state in Lower Austria, for example, and I know that Mr Kukacka has also repeatedly questioned the project in the Transport Committee. [[Abg. Seidinger: But there is also a Styrian ÖVP, and it is clearly for that!]] There is also a Styrian ÖVP. I don't want to interfere in ÖVP-Interna now. That's really far away from me, I want to. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Even the Wabl was for it!]] Mr Wabl also welcomed this project, for example, Mr Kukacka. From the point of view of Styria, it is quite a project you can talk about. [[Abg. Seidinger: Well, then!]] But I believe that this House is not the Styrian country day, but must represent federal interests. [[Abg. Seidinger: Not the Lower Austrian either!]] Not the Lower Austrian either, because we are all in fact incredibly agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this situation, to invest at least 6.5 billion schilling in this Semmering base tunnel, I think – and this will surprise some in the SPÖ – that is also a serious mistake for the construction industry. I am also sure that you will not find anyone in the final effect under these conditions, which the Minister confirmed after the last meeting of the Transport Committee. He has confirmed that this project must be established without any liability of the federal government – as it is written out. Under these conditions, i.e. without the liability of the federal government, you will not find a consortium in the final effect, which, if the competition is actually established, will still want to realize and realize this project, except it is a construction company that is somehow affected by a certain suicide spirit. I do not think that we still find such undertakings in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That is why: rethinking, quickly creating a list of priorities and then investing in necessary projects, in expansion projects; for example, into the Eastern European region, in links between East Austria and the Eastern European region, in an extension also to the West Railway in the Tyrolean region – this is also a necessary company; we only need to talk about the details, but in principle – in an extension of the West Railway between Salzburg and Vienna – also here there are bottlenecks, capacities that can be increased – and also, which is quite essential, in new connections, such as to Bavaria, about the Wels–Simbach–Munich route, and also in the Linz–Prag area. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Bravo!]] There is a need for investment here, and there is a great deal to be done here, ladies and gentlemen. What I personally do not understand is that, at the same time, the many people involved in the railway sector have taken the view that, in recent days, the decision has been taken that 33 more billion more are being invested in road construction, rather than at last investing in public transport, in order to achieve a turnaround in order not to continue this sad balance, which the OECD review report has confirmed with the declared huge 80 percent increase in road traffic. 33 billion schilling for new road construction means continuing to heat road traffic. Everyone knows. And if we look at the extent to which road transport is already the main cause of pollution in the most important areas, then Mr Lukesch will also agree that something has to be done here. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: It's just being invested in the train!]] If you were serious about a traffic change, Mr Lukesch, then you would save these 33 billion for further road constructions, for even more traffic on Austria's roads, because that also means: even higher ozone concentrations, even more CO2 emissions et cetera. You know that very well. The figures are very concrete. We already have the situation in road transport that this is by far the largest CO2 issuer in Austria with about 30 percent of the total emissions. In comparison, the industry, where much has actually happened in the field of emission reduction, has only a share of 23 percent. Mr Kukacka, I wonder how it can be explained and whether it is acceptable that in the field of industry these CO2 emissions from 1988 to 1994 reductions of around 12 per cent have been achieved – extremely positive; especially we Linzers know about singing a song, a positive song – but at the same time, CO2 emissions from transport have not fallen by 20 per cent, but have risen, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, you will further stimulate this negative trend. In addition, the employment effect of road construction is extremely bad, with an extremely below-average employment effect. This is what we know at the latest since the Wifo study on the overall economic importance of infrastructure for Austria, where the detailed calculation has shown that road construction has an employment effect of 1 420 people per billion per year of investment, which is about 270 fewer workers than the average of the remaining possible investments in the infrastructure or in the construction sector as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A very negative balance sheet! Upgrade the rail – now uplifting it – but at the same time also the road, is counterproductive. There are no priorities here, there is no change. We need a transport policy that will give this country a return to the future. And that will be the task of this Minister for the Future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39487	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39508	Mr President. Federal Minister! The two laws which are dealt with here are very important areas of transport and telecommunications policy for discussion and, ultimately, also for the vote. In fact, these areas will also have a very strong impact on this country's industrial policy. I would just like to focus very briefly on the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. I have already responded to the request for an answer requested by the Liberal Party. For our part, everything has already been said essentially. Today only so many, ladies and gentlemen: First point: With this Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, the financing of railway expansion is put on a clear, transparent and legal basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: In this way, the railway knows how much money it has available over the next five years, namely 60 billion schilling. Third point: The Minister of Finance, together with the Ministry of Transport, must transfer to the Federal Railways and to the other construction companies very specific infrastructure development measures, i.e. railway development projects. So far, the Austrian Federal Railways have been able to do this themselves. They decided, as it were, for themselves which projects they had priorities for, now the Minister of Transport must transfer these projects by means of a regulation of the railways. Fourth point: Before such a regulation, the Federal Railways must present scope, costs and timetables. This, too, was not provided for by law in this form. Fifth point: The Federal Railways must pay this rail infrastructure financing company benefit fees. A clear step towards more cost-effectiveness will be taken in this area as well. This infrastructure company also receives revenue from the fact that the federal government has financed and provided these railways. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no alternative to this society. If it were not, it would only mean that investment in railway development would have to be completely stopped or that out-of-budget debt of the railways would be increasing. And that cannot be in our transport policy interest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reasonable alternative to this law, and whoever, Mr Anschober – and this also applies to the other parties – is always in favour of moving goods, in particular from road to rail, who always says that this is necessary, he must also be involved in ensuring appropriate financing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a first step towards the social separation of the Austrian federal railways, namely into an operating company for the transport of passengers and goods and the establishment of an infrastructure company for the construction and maintenance of the freight routes. This is for us a first step, a right step, a necessary step, a step that we will now take everywhere in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out – and that is what we are insisting on, Minister: Mr Klima has already given an order for a priority study on the development of Austrian railways. That is to say, a scientific study has been commissioned to define such a priority for railway development according to economic and operational criteria. Of course, this priority plan must include the economic and commercial benefits of the Semmering Base Tunnel. The outcome of this study must be published, it must be possible to discuss it, and this study must be the basis for an extension plan for the Austrian railways. - We'll hold on to that. This also applies to the Semmering base tunnel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And something else goes for us: At the time, Minister Klima has determined that this Semmering base tunnel should be financed by a large majority of the private sector. That's to be read everywhere. That is why a request for interest, a public tender, even an EU invitation to tender has been made. The procedure is still under way. We will take a very close look at the outcome and, of course, we will also measure the consequences of what Mr Klima and the Federal Government said at the time to finance this Semmering base tunnel. In any event, this final decision must be awaited, these studies must be pending, the financing question must be clarified before the construction of the Semmering base tunnel can be finally commissioned. This is, I believe, a clear and understandable procedure in which the People's Party acknowledges itself. Only then can a final decision be made on this matter. And, of course, the Committee on Transport must also deal with this issue accordingly and take a final decision on it. In any case, this is our position on the question of the Semmering base tunnel, and I think it is a good and a reasonable position that we take here. Ladies and gentlemen! The Poststructural Law is also a most necessary, another, a correct step in the right direction. A correct step in the right direction to a slimmer state, to more competition, to demonopolistion and to a stronger customer orientation of the post. We have always called for this way, and this path has now been taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already done a lot in this area: The postal monopoly has already fallen to a large extent, private messenger services are daily, telecommunications terminals have long been liberalized, cable television companies are croaking on the control monopoly, mobile phone monopoly has fallen, and the channel-bound voice phone monopoly is being implemented in accordance with EU directives on 1. January 1998 has fallen. That means that what we're doing here is really a follow-up process. We are reacting to international development, and I am glad that it has finally come – although late – that the post will now be distributed out of public administration and a company of its own. What does this exclusion mean for us? First point: The Minister responsible may no longer lead this company to post instructions as before. That is to say, the Party's influence is being pushed back. Second point: No longer a department head of the ministry will manage the post-roomalist, but its own board will have to lead this company according to business and business principles. Thirdly, The distributed item will have to go to the stock market by the end of 1999. – Mr Firlinger, you need to read the law more precisely. There's nothing inside of "soll", but there says: ==References== 12. 1999 is to be launched." That is to say, it is clear that, until the end of this legislative period, a similar privatisation – at least partial privatisation – of Austrian Post and Telekom AG will take place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So far, so good, so supportive. Of course, the problems of the postal sector are not finally solved, but we will be able to solve the problems gradually. The main problem is the high debt of the post – we all know it – over 110 billion schilling. The Minister of Finance has served a little too generously with the phone fees. A second major problem is that of the international Comparing clearly to the low productivity of the company Post, a typical consequence of a long-term monopoly situation, as was the case with the post. This means that there must be gradual and socially compatible employees. This has admitted to the post-director Sindelka himself by saying that more than 7 500 employees need to be dismantled over the next three years. [[Abg. Edler: Don't talk about degradation! Natural finish!]] Socially acceptable, I said. We have always expressed the view that no social hardships should arise for employees – that is, of course for us – but it must also be clear that this company must ultimately, also in terms of competition, align itself accordingly on the market. There's no way past that. You should take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We expect Austria's Post and Telekom AG to set clear objectives, that it has a clear customer orientation – that must be the standard of its corporate policy – that it ensures that it is cost-conscious that it conducts rationalisations and restructurings and that it also sets out a clear privatisation concept until the date specified in the law. This company also needs a strong board of directors and a competent Supervisory Board. The law also requires that the profits and the sub-balance sheets in the individual areas – i.e. yellow mail, Telekom, bus services – be identified separately. The EU, with its ban on cross-subsidisation, ensures that these principles are also respected. And this law also allows – and this is what we think is important – that the division, i.e. the division of social law into the various areas, i.e. in the bus service, in the Telekom area and in the yellow post, actually comes. We have never made a locust of it, that we think it makes sense. In the postal and telecommunications sectors, embodiment in the various areas has long been an international reality, and we cannot shut down here, but we must and should go this way if we want the post to be an efficient company that will also have a future. Ladies and gentlemen! The success of the forthcoming reform will depend on whether this current post-structural law will also be implemented efficiently, i.e. whether an efficient management will call for a successful search for a partner for the Telekom sector, whether part-privatisations are made in the different business areas and whether sufficient investment in future technologies will be made so that this Post and Telekom AG is ultimately also internationally competitive. This post-structural law is a prerequisite for this. In the interests of the Austrian economy and in the interest of Austrian postal customers, it is hoped that this law will be fulfilled with life and implemented efficiently.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39596	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39617	Mr President. Minister! In the meantime, we have successfully distributed the mail, and I have stretched the bow back to science. Mr Posch is not here now. – I am not very often of his opinion, but in that case when he says: The real stakeholders in this tax package are the students. I think he'll make it a little easy when he says: Our minister needs to save only 300 million schillings, and the academic Senate and the universities will be able to do so. And it's Minister Bartenstein's fault, because he's responsible for family allowances, he's responsible for the support of the students. This is not the case, however, because both of you, ÖVP and SPÖ, have been the federal government for ten years, that is, both of you are quite equally guilty of the mistake we are currently in. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What's going to happen? As a result of this financial deterioration of students, it will happen that the students are of course increasingly avoiding jobs. In my opinion, a representative of the students speaks; I am curious about her point of view. I think you're a student representative, Mrs. Ablinger. You're coming to speak to me. [[Abg. May. Ederer: All SPÖ delegates!]] Don't worry! So the following will happen: Students will be more likely to go to work. Of course, this will not reduce study time, but it will rise. However, the "drop-out" rate will also rise because many will no longer find themselves in the efficient study. The study period will therefore be much longer. That is to say, the fine words provided for in the Declaration of Government of "the creation of further incentives for the reduction of the real study period" have already been condemned from the outset, with the question of: What were the current stimuli to shorten the actual study period? Our students are not in the Schlaraffenland of the scholarships anyway: Only about 10 percent of students receive scholarships, and there are still sharp different treatments between college students and university students, in particular as regards the weighting of the average grade in assessing the suitability to obtain a scholarship. In order to eliminate this inequality and this blatant injustice, I am tabling a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We could certainly save a lot of money at the universities. I spoke to some exponents of technical universities, and an essential point would be the consistent abolition of camera lysics. How's it going now? – At the very end of the year, many university institutes will see a nicely packed desks, computers, measuring equipment and cetera standing because the budgets have to be consumed. If you consistently implement the autonomy of universities, you will also give the university institutions the opportunity to save, if necessary, funds for larger projects, so that we have the opportunity, in particular in the technical field, to implement larger projects later, because there is a very large investment effort in the field of measurement and regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I quote page 27 of the Government Declaration: "The future of our country is youth, and the future of youth is its education. Every investment in training is also an investment in the future." Ladies and gentlemen! However, with the tax package, you have already discontinued investment in this area, and I think we are detaching in this area, to the detriment of Austria. We should turn around on this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39679	Mrs Ablinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39700	Mr Schöggl! I should like to point out briefly: I am not a student representative – thank you for perhaps appreciating me for so young – for this I think I am already too old. But if you mean that I understand the students and the students, I give you the right – of course, in this respect already! High house! Mr. Minister! I'm already on the subject. For the fact that tens of thousands of students have been on the streets in the last few weeks, I have a broad understanding. I admit that. What I would like to add is: Of course, this package also contains quite positive things. There is an increase in study funding, which, for example, has the effect of increasing the individual level of the scholarship. One example of this is that the maximum grant is increased from 80 000 to 88 000 s per year and that the grant team has also been extended. There is therefore also very positive, although this is critical in the area of requirements for claims; at least a derogation has been created which provides for exceptions in the event of indispensable events. And there is this story in the field of travel costs with the 72 million schilling, where we hope that the 5 500 counterparts who enter the field of scholarships will receive a corresponding fee. I would like to point out from my home city the very positive example that Linz is planning to introduce a reduced student rate of 200 s. Perhaps other cities or other transport associations could join this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I can't hide: I believe that in the case of possible other political constellations there would have been other legal regulations in the field of students. Alone: the conditions, they are not like that. That is certainly what we need to see. One more thing: I also believe that with the necessary consolidation in this area – and I believe that has already been said by many here – the problems of universities have not been solved once and for all. That's what I'm going to get to the next area. This crisis, which has now occurred, can also be understood as an opportunity – as an opportunity for us to engage in a dialogue and in this country a broad agreement is made that it is necessary to discuss the future of universities. I believe that if we see this crisis as an opportunity, it can also be a positive one. In this discussion, which is to be conducted intensively in the future, I believe, one important thing to hold: It is not enough to see students and universities only as a cost factor, because I believe that our industrial society needs the achievements of students and universities, and not only those from the field of natural sciences and techniques, but also those - and this I particularly emphasize - from the field of humanities and cultural sciences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that it is nevertheless to be considered, at a time of budget scarcity and more necessary – I stress the need for fiscal consolidation, that we do not increase the gap, which exists in a wide range of areas between universities and the population. And it is also about stopping a concept of the elite society. If education is free and if that is to say an extension of life opportunities, then access to such education cannot be restricted, then this free access must be guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we should not lose sight of all these things of the need that there is a day after that. And we should ask ourselves the question today: What ways do we want to go in the future? What is the future of the universities and thus the future of our country to look like? In this context, I would like to address a question raised by Mr Berlakovich, President-in-Office of the Council, and I hope that I will not go into danger of being referred to as a student representative immediately. Today she asks in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": The government doesn't care about the universities? I cannot speak for the government, but I believe that I can speak and say to the Social Democrats: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am of the opinion that the last word has certainly not been spoken in the field of universities, universities and academies. And last but not least: Furthermore, Mr Minister, I believe that the Vienna Philharmonic should also include women.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39799	I believe that the motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Schöggl is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Povysil is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39824	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the last two days I have not been able to spend with you, as a result of illness, and I regret it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you for your compassion. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There has been a lot of escape in these days!]] I accepted it. I regret this despite the fact that there is currently broad criticism across Austria regarding the importance of the House. The "Press" is talking about a cold shutdown of Parliament. And the "Salzburger Nachrichten" ask the meaning of who can take this parliamentaryism seriously. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And yet, or just so, in my short political career, I see more than ever the need to fight this development with all the strength. I would like to speak to you again today in my capacity as a doctor to express my concern about the science budget, which will lead to an extreme aggravation of the situation at the universities. This situation is particularly dramatic at the Faculty of Medicine. In the near future, the savings package can lead to a breakdown in the number of doctors, almost to a medical neck. The decision of the Faculty Assembly, according to which the beginning of the studies will no longer be accepted in the coming winter semester, or that the care of new students in compulsory internships can no longer be carried out, is, in my view, not tolerable, and with this I fully agree with the opinion of Mr President, Professor Brauneder. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But for me this also means that this government is at the end of making a political agreement with the public concerned. What have we experienced in recent months and weeks? The disabled are demonstrating before Parliament. Family associations are protesting through the city center of Vienna. Doctors defend themselves – including my person, and I have discussed it here too – against the reduction of birth aid because it results in a collapse in the precautionary medicine. Students strike, and now there is to be a Quasistop in the training of doctors. The situation in the hospitals is already precarious. According to the current KAG, about 1,000 doctors should already be more active in the hospitals. And we all know that the doctors are still working up to 90 hours a week, that more than 20 night shifts per month are still being performed in many hospitals and that weekend services are still being performed for more than 56 hours. You have not fulfilled the conditions for an EU-compliant 48 hours of working time. Minister! You know that the General Higher Education Act It undertakes to provide sufficient resources in the event of free access to higher education. Now, ladies and gentlemen, decide: Do you want to continue to have real free access to higher education? Do you want Austria to draw up a position at the top of international competition, which means that we invest in training and research accordingly high and target-oriented? Or do you want to go down to the intellectual and economic regional league for our country? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you want us to continue to train excellent doctors in Austria, or do you want the Faculty of Medicine to make its threat come true and close its gates? In doing so, we have an acute need for action in terms of improving medical training. We can not only impart cognitive knowledge, it is our task to involve our young physicians in practical hospitalization, in increased bedside teaching and in increased practical medical activity. What we've been offered by the Ministry of Science, that's the proposal, Dr. med. for a power. med. (a) exchange of information; (b) exchange of information; (c) exchange of information; (c) exchange of information; (c) exchange of information; (d) exchange of information; (d) exchange of information; (d) exchange of information; (e) exchange of information; (d) And now we are even facing the situation that the Medical Faculty wants to drop down the roller shop at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Salzburg is already applying for a medical faculty! Let's get her there!]] That's it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When I was still pursuing politics as an interested observer from the outside, it was clear to me that the House is not necessarily the centre of Austrian internal policy. But that it is as bad as I can pursue today, and that the Members are only an extended workbench of the government, was not clear to me at that time. I appeal to you – I know I will not today, I will not succeed tomorrow and I will not succeed the day after, but I am stubborn, at some point I will have him – that we make an alliance across all the party borders and across all differences of opinion in order to oppose the dictatorship of the Ballhausplatz. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And I appeal to you to work hard for the upgrading of this House. I appeal to you on behalf of our Constitution, which provides for real legislative competence for this House, while the government is merely the administration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I call on you to refuse your consent to the financial and capacity erodement of our educational institution. [[Call for the call.]] This problem has nothing to do with the Third Republic. – Objection not allowed. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39922	Mr Fink is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e39944	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The present Structural Adjustment Act will have to be used for the creation of future jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made this structural adjustment law and not just to destroy jobs, as you think, for this purpose. One thing is certain, however, that these 7500 jobs, as mentioned by the Director-General, will have to be reduced. In a natural way, with the natural finish, if it goes, that would be best. More flexibility, courage to innovation in new technologies and a greater willingness to open up new markets with private economic help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will bring our economy back to growth in the long term, and new jobs will be the result. With mere cost reduction, our economy cannot secure its competitiveness, because the price alone cannot compete with those in countries such as Korea or the Czech Republic – I call only two – through our businesses. We can only rely on the quality of our products, and this is excellent. This requires, above all, a lasting advantage in the field of transport innovation. In developing the infrastructure, the narrow scope for financing transport policy in the coming years will require some of us. I mean, We need courage to set clear priorities. The key word for this is the Semmering base tunnel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] We Steirer are still concerned that the Styria will be bypassed and thus also the Graz Economic Area. Therefore, the most important and undoubtedly most up-to-date infrastructure measure for Styria in rail transport is the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For these, a financing model must be developed as quickly as possible in order to reduce the huge increase in freight traffic. But the possibilities of private financing under concession and operator models will always be only a complement to budget financing, but they will never be able to replace. Nevertheless, it would be irresponsible to take advantage of the overall economic benefits of important transport projects, which we can prefer with the help of private funding instruments. Without private funding, some important transport projects would not be eligible for funding. Road transport – which has already been said today – is increasing and worrying. It would be desirable and is also our goal to bring more traffic to the rails. However, the rail can only take up a part of the increase in traffic. This makes it possible to slow down the ever-increasing traffic on the road in the best case. In other words, there must be something to be done in road construction. The continuation of road construction is therefore also necessary, whose focus is on closing the remaining gaps in the long-distance network, the construction of local routes and the elimination of accident priorities. The Federal Government also tackles the accelerated construction of railway infrastructure projects. For this year, the Railway Infrastructure Act provides for investments of 10.5 billion and for the next year of 12.5 billion. However, with this Structural Adjustment Act, we are without a doubt taking new ways of reform, including among the aspects of a pan-European transport policy. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] For the transport sector, the pressure to manage budgets means that we need to make better use of the existing infrastructure. Basic transport policy objectives such as the speedy handling of mass transport, transport safety, environmental protection and energy saving are certainly not to be addressed without modern railways. The railways must and will play a crucial role in dealing with the traffic flows that are currently being caused by the development of the European internal market. The railway will only be able to do so if it can offer attractive services on market-oriented conditions. Therefore, the railway needs not only a modern rail network, modern and comfortable vehicles, but above all an organisation that can react flexibly to changed market conditions and also reduce disadvantages of the EU's external border to the south and east. High house! In conclusion, I would like to say: The railway reform with this Structural Adjustment Act is therefore essential because only in this way can the future of this important mode of transport be secured. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40018	The next speaker was Mr Peter Rosenstingl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40042	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On Tuesday we had the opportunity to discuss the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act in detail. I would like to address something that, in my opinion, is typical of this government. On Tuesday, Federal Minister Klima meant – and he was one of the allies: he and Staribacher – that this agreement was nothing special; of course, this House was responsible for legislation, and nothing had happened before the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. – Again, as in recent times very often, Federal Minister Klima has told us the untruth! And I can prove that, too, Mr. Cot. If it were so, as the Federal Minister said, I ask you: Why is there a paper dated 3 from the Federal Ministry of Public Economy and Transport? year(s) Agreement on multi-annual investment frameworks, in which the projects are already specified precisely before this House has received the draft at all? Further: Why are there at the Supervisory Board meeting of 25 February? 1. In 1996 Mr Draxler said that Draxler said that the ÖBB saw more than a statement of intent in this agreement. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You have to be a little quieter, then listen to me better, then I don't need to scream like that. [[Members of the ÖVP: "Psst!"]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, I say this to the Social Democrats, who are always so close to the untruth: ==References== 3rd. In 1996 the Supervisory Board of ÖBB applied for: The Supervisory Board is asked to approve the increase in the 1996 investment volume of infrastructure from around 5 265 million to around 8 222 million to expand the infrastructure projects. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klima, the Federal Minister for Climate Change, has the wrong thing that his own ministerial papers will also be issued to us! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, when he says the untruth, he is exposed again and again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The post is the same as at the Bundesbahn: A debt company is established. This debt company is to take over 45 billion debts and, as with the railway, it is not intended to repay these debts, but the post must pay a dividend, and from this dividend the interest will be refunded. That means: The 45 billion schilling debt remains. But the sad thing is that the post continues to have other debts, debts incurred by government policy, because the post in its area is eroded and too much has been allocated to the budget. Therefore, if the post has to make high dividend payments, the postal services, telephones, mail and parcels will be requested to the cash register. In this breakdown into a debt company, the sufferers will be all Austrians who have to expect increased letter fees, parcel fees and phone fees. Federal Minister! A proof of how in your government's policy you are in the process of disseminating the post and setting up this debt company is that in the review there is a letter from the Ministry of Finance dated 21. In September 1995, it is expressly stated that it is appropriate for this postal and telecoms management company to have a financing and eradication plan drawn up for PTBG's debts to be taken over and to include these plans in the law as an annex. Federal Minister! The law has not been annexed to eradication plans, and you have also said in the Committee that a eradication is not at all intended, or that Mr Sindelka has said that a eradication is not at all intended, because a eradication would not go out at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This means, however, that, according to the EU criteria, the debt of this society should remain in the budget. The Minister of Finance will also inform you of this. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I am at the end of the sentence: This exclusion has also failed. Debt companies are only dishonest budgetary policies!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40102	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. His speaking time is 20 minutes. – By the way: Rapid leads 3:0. Please, honourable Member. [[Bravorufe and general accompaniment.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40129	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President, thank you for the communication, less about the 20 minutes, but above all for knowing now that Rapid has great advantages. We are of course happy with them. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is it like?]] That's the bad thing, colleague Haigermoser! You never listen to this house and therefore of course misses the important messages, 3:0 it stands for Rapid. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Thank you!]] – I have now said that specifically for Mr Haigermoser. Ladies and gentlemen! Some remarks on the budget chapter Traffic: It is striking that expenditure will rise from 27 billion in 1995 to 42.5 billion in 1997, but also revenue from 3.9 billion in 1995 to 34.3 billion in 1997. In addition, there is the breakdown of the item in figures: On the one hand, there will be increased revenue through concession levy and dividends, on the other hand increased expenditure by the personnel cost reduction to the office established by the new postal company, Post AG. On this occasion, I should like to make a correct statement by Mr Firlinger: He claimed that radio surveillance would not be separate from the Authority or the supervisory authority and the company carrying out it. - That's not right. He has certainly dealt very closely with the Poststructural Act, but has not read the Telecommunications Act. Because we've had this separation for years: On the one hand, there is radio monitoring – the regulator section head Weber is there – and on the other hand, there is the company Post. This has therefore been solved in accordance with EU law, and this attack has therefore failed. Secondly, I would like to say to Mr Anschober – who is not here either, but I hope he hears me – that the exclusion of the post of course also offers an opportunity, for example, to reorganise public passenger transport or to think about why we have a problem with the financing of newspaper services. We know that the end is 2.5 billion schilling and only 0.9 billion of it is replaced as a public service. Thirdly, I would like to say to Mr Kukacka: We confess to competition in the field of mail. We also confess to a new structure of the post. But for us Social Democrats, the destruction of jobs is not a priority, just as he expressed it with a lot of emotion in his speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We confess to rationalizations. That's not a question at all. We're not the world's foreign! But we believe that this new post also has the opportunity to open up new opportunities in the same way as it finds new business areas and when it is particularly committed and offers new services to secure as many jobs as possible in the area of Post AG or perhaps even create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Another comment on the chapter Transport and the changes that are now taking place through the Structural Adjustment Act. I see this in particular in terms of employment policy impulses and, in reality, also a massive improvement in Austria's economic location. If the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act allows railways to invest a maximum of 12 billion per year in the infrastructure, and we assume that about 2 200 jobs can be created per billion of investment, that means 26 000 jobs. And that is crucial to us. Moreover, if we assume that the decrease in the number of employees at the same level, that is, of 26 000 people, is causing about 5 billion schilling of direct or indirect costs, it shows that this rail infrastructure financing law has an impact not only on jobs but also on the budget. The economic research institute has shown in a study that in the medium term, with 10 billion Schilling infrastructure investments to the federal government will generate 6 billion, to the municipalities 1.1 billion, to the countries 0,8 billion in return. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that this rail infrastructure financing law for the government's work offensive and for the positive development of our economy constitutes a particular basis. I do not really understand the Greens' point of view. For I have always believed that we could agree on this very point, namely when it comes to lobbying environmentally friendly transport and giving this transport a basis, which is the case with this law. The fact that you oppose this law is highly incomprehensible to me. Ladies and gentlemen! In a short time, I'll go into one area: If we look at the statistics on traffic accidents, we recognize the need to take action. Of course, budgetary resources are also necessary. I think we need measures on legal bases, such as the introduction of a point driving licence, and intensive control, in particular of the state of the vehicle in the case of trucks and buses. However, we must also ensure that driving and rest periods are really observed, because it must be our common concern, the businessman and also the trade unionist, that we remove the black sheep from the market. I am very glad that the issue of the introduction of the 0.5-promille limit in the non-coalition area is being dealt with, thus opening up the possibility that these measures to improve road safety will not be dealt with as a party-political issue, but as a decision of the individual Member in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to be said about; many of my colleagues have yet to speak. We Socialists are on this budget chapter, we are on these two budgets and believe that this will make a forward-looking transport policy possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40186	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Before I give him the floor, I would like to say: There are now no more counter speakers reported. That means that there are only pro-responsors in a row. Members who have been in the back of the speaker list are now already on the table. – I just wanted to say that so that no mess arises. It cannot be changed between pro- and counter-voicers at the moment, but only pro-responsors come along. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40211	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Tensions are imminent changes, and if we allow the debate to take place, we feel these tensions, but we also feel that we need changes. We need positive changes for the future of our country to make our country positive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We live in a very interesting time. On the one hand, we have achieved an above-average prosperity through our commitment and effort, on the other hand, we have, especially in 1994 and 1995 for various reasons, but also, above all, by not properly appreciating the situation through our policies, brought over and brought into disorder state finances. We should see this consolidation programme as a whole. In my opinion, I would like to sum up two points. First: It must be the priority objective of rehabilitating the budget by the end of 1997 and reducing re-indebtedness to 68 billion and 2.7% of GDP respectively. We need this reform programme in order to ensure the sustainable economic location of Austria and in order to ultimately not endanger the stability of our schilling. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Ensuring existing jobs and creating new jobs are the major challenges. It is not just the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, who are responsible for this. These are, of course, challenges for our Members in this House. We too bear responsibility for this. – We will have to say goodbye to many old habits in the future. In my opinion, this reform programme represents the beginning of future changes, but also the opportunity to introduce in-depth reforms. As part of the adoption of the Structural Adjustment Laws, today's debate on science and transport deals with the subject. East opening and accession to the European Union have led to a further increase in traffic nuisance. This development, of course, leads to capacity bottlenecks and thus to massive pressures on the quality of life of our population. The Rail Infrastructure Finance Act, which we will adopt today, will allow us to invest 12 billion billions a year in the next five years, 60 billion in the railway infrastructure of the main, secondary and regional railways, in order to shift the increasing traffic from road to rail. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of the most important transport axes in Austria is the Westbahn. The nearly 140-year-old, important transport link is no longer in line with the increase in transport requirements. Alone between Pöchlarn and St. Pölten roll about 230 trains a day. With the expansion of this route, the performance is to be increased to about 400 trains a day. Therefore, the expansion of the Westbahn was classified as the top priority in the Lower Austrian regional transport concept. The Vienna–Salzburg line is to be extended to a four-track high-performance track. The track systems are designed for a maximum speed of 200 km/h. However, it seems particularly important to me that future investments take place in those areas that are in the top priority due to the overburdened capacity. As the Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, I would point out that the Gloggnitz–Mürzzuschlag line with a frequency of about 110 trains per day is currently not used and is therefore not the priority. Federal Minister! Carriers They will ensure that, in the near future, there is a federal transport concept so that future investments can be made meaningfully. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say: With this reform programme, we have a great opportunity for our economic location, for our families, for our position in Europe, but especially for our Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40256	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also try to keep myself short and, in my opinion, address essential points. The Structural Adjustment Act also amends the Railway Act and the Federal Railway Act. An essential law, which has been re-created today and has also been referred to x-time, which is a really courageous and right decision at a very difficult time with regard to the employment situation, is the so-called Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. Ladies and gentlemen! We need this law for the extension of our railways. For us, it is an essential and important part of the employment offensive. And that's what we need now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not understand that Mr Rosenstingl always feels like looking for hair somewhere in the soup, and I think about why the Minister of Foreign Affairs had already agreed in December of this year. 12. have made such considerations and whether they were allowed to do so at all. He objected that the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB is concerned about this and we say: We want to make a decision that we can finance infrastructure measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser! They have advocated that the ÖBB as its own company can decide independently! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many workers are employed in the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel?]] Now, however, Mr Rosenstingl comes out and criticizes everything the ÖBB decides to do. Ladies and gentlemen! That's unscrupulous! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Don't always talk about it! It's not that important, Mr Stadler, what you're saying. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Are you familiar with the Deix model?]] Yours call is not important at all! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the ÖBB will have to decide independently, accept the challenges and certainly also create the necessary programmes for investment. – The Rail Infrastructure Finance Act ensures 12 billion Schilling annually for investment. We are also familiar with the statements made by a study by the Wifo that shows that the return on funding is essential to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a gift to the ÖBB, it is really a legal measure for a good future of transport policy in Austria. It is certainly also necessary for private to bring in not only ideas but also financial resources. It's also a consideration. I would like to stress this because the view has been expressed here that in many areas infrastructure cannot be financed by the use fee. This also means that private funding alone is unlikely to have a return option, but it will continue to be the responsibility of the State to create the essential conditions. However, this results in significant effects in many areas of our economy. Projects and the study addressed by Mr Kukacka are still waiting, but only in some areas, but not in all areas. We have some contracts that we have concluded as a result of the accession negotiations to the EU. We have concluded contracts with the federal states, and I believe that it is a challenge for the government, but also for the ÖBB company, that these contracts are respected. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few more points on transport policy. I repeat: If Mr Kukacka has said that we are going to have a cost-effective use fee, I must say that we will finally have to produce the cost-effectiveness of road transport. It's going to be successive, I'm aware of that. But the inequality of cross-subsidised road transport is no longer acceptable. It must also be our task to make it clear in Brussels that liberalisation cannot go so far as to prevent the road from having a chance in competition and favouring the road. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr Graf! You didn't make any contribution to the Lobau stop at all! The Lobau stop will be re-opened. You don't praise yourself! That's not what a colleague Edler is doing here. But it was a The SPÖ-Donaustadt deserves that Lobau station be rebuilt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only one sentence on the post: I wish our mail good luck. The conditions are quite similar to the ÖBB law. Only one thing I did not understand, namely that a speaker from the coalition partner ÖVP, Mr Kukacka, is constantly talking about reducing thousands of jobs. If we are to make structural adjustments and structural adjustments, we should work together to remedy the human problems about social plans. I think that's our common task. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40366	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Emperor. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40387	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the advanced time, only a few thoughts. The Poststructural Act now enables us to modernise the post. It's high time, because cross-subsidies, as they have been done by Deutsche Telekom so far, are from 1. No longer permitted in January 1997. The loss of the yellow post was nevertheless remarkable. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Kaiser, just read the red box!]] I know you stole papers, take care of the papers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] They're mine, I made them myself.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40420	Deputies! I suppose that was a joke and not the accusation of a criminal act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40435	The expression "stolen" may be somewhat inadmissible, but the liberals have handed a paper to the Minister of the Family. Since unpleasant print errors were inside, they then deprived him of them again. Actually, they took them away from me when I was just studying them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40459	I do not know, but I am speaking Mr Kaiser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40475	This means that some structural changes must be made at the post office. We have heard that the staff level is to be reduced by 8 500 employees. It's about 1,500 less. This too must be socially balanced. I would like to raise another point of view, namely that of public service. I would like to join the words of my previous speaker. Post and rail services for the common economy. They have to take account of these public services and bring them into their calculation as a plus. There will be changes in the shift service, in the service time, in the staff, the whole organization must be tightened. However, despite all this, the post has to continue to work to maintain confidence in the post as it has been in the future. It is always said – if you think about it logically, it is not to be avoided – that smaller post offices are probably abandoned over time. It was said in the Committee and also in a television report that there are no concrete plans on this from the management of the company. However, the trade union of postal workers has made it clear that there are very likely to be some considerations in this regard. In my federal state, in Lower Austria, the closure of 200 to 250 small post offices is in conversation. It is important to ensure that services are maintained, i.e. that the citizen can submit his letter and that the service is provided. Director-General Sindelka even meant that the service could get better if it was taken over by larger post offices. By the way, I take a press note that there are already 100 private post offices in Lower Austria, mostly in the single layer, i.e. in regions where the establishment of an office would not be profitable. The approaches are there and are adopted by the citizens as well. I would also like to say with satisfaction that the situation in the area of post-post bus services, the Federal Bus, has improved. There is still an end of 750 million, but the committed use, above all, of the route guide there, has contributed to a significant improvement. There is also the problem of public service, and I would add that student reductions – they have already been addressed today – will play a role. I am also pleased with the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. These 60 billion schillings for five years are a milestone. Of course, I am particularly interested in my region. The completion of the Danube axis Vienna–Marchegg is in view. Within the five years, the Nordbahn to Bernhardsthal is further modernized. The Retz–Franz-Josefs-Bahn connection is also in this programme. The question is that transit traffic, as it is common in the West, in Tyrol, does not arise only when the north becomes a little more mobile, but that these long-distance transports are handled immediately by rail. Finally, I would also like to say a positive word about the fact that, in our region, the railways were largely maintained and some of them were even re-opened. I am pleased that the citizens accept this and offer the railway a corresponding offer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40529	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40550	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, allow me a personal comment. Since I am under the pressure of time, I would like at least to give the honourable Members the post of one of them on the way: We create, I think, the best possible legal framework. In the heart we are with you, I am very special. We trust in your achievements and are sure that the path we take together is a more successful one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to table an amendment here: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reasons for this: The amendment of the Federal Ministry Act is responsible for regulating the telecommunications sector of the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40633	Mr. Schwamlein! Reasons do not need to be read.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40648	Can I add another sentence? Thank you. In the newly created Poststructural Act, correct designations of the bodies responsible for enforcement are already to be used. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important for me to note that we also need to take essential steps for post staff, that it is also crucial that we act in terms of the right to represent staff. There is § 17 para. 1 of this Poststructural Act that the legislation of the Federal Government for Officials, which is assigned to the service of Post and Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, remains in force, with the exception of some exceptions listed taxively. The right to represent staff is not covered by these exceptions, so that it is still applicable because it is undoubtedly a law which applies to the legal conditions of these officials. This is explained by the explanations made: The legislation applicable to post and telegraph officials remains in force. Furthermore, § 19 para. 2 stated that the staff representation of officials employed by PTA AG and by subsidiaries in which PTA AG is at least a majority, including the officials assigned under § 17, must be regulated by a special federal law, taking into account the particular characteristics of the company. Until the new appointment of the institutions, the existing institutions shall be regarded as bodies of the Office of Workers' Office. Thus, the staff representation of employees at PTA AG is clearly regulated by law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40693	The request which has just been submitted is under negotiation. Mr Zweytick is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40718	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the final point will also come to the end of the debate and the vote. I hope it's not 3:3, because then there would be an extension. But an extension would surely do our track well in many areas. Austria has a, if not the biggest, importance for the axis from west to east in Europe. Therefore, first of all, the problems of transit and second of the toll for Europe's long-distance trucks. For a whole Europe, from Russia to Portugal, the middle part of Austria is the intention of future transport and economic policies. With regard to Austria, our railway and the border areas of the three southern, poorer federal states, this line should also be considered as a continuation of the future Danube-Oder Canal. From Vienna to Villach it is just as much a unit as the South motorway. I think you've already realized what I'm talking about, I'm talking about the South-East spange. The construction of a combination of Vienna–Graz–Klagenfurt through the Koralpe has long been called for. ==References== An application for the construction of the so-called South East Spange was made in the Styrian Landtag in 1936. The former Minister of Transport, Climate, spoke at the "Press hour" on 10 October. On September 9, 1995 the rapid rise in truck traffic from the East and the need to reroute this traffic to the railways. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky also often stressed the equality of Western and South Railways. An example: If you compare the length of the route from 1950 to today, you can see the large size of the new buildings. A comparison of the train map shows that the route network has remained almost the same. Railway from Kaiser's times. This speaks for the Semmering base tunnel, but above all also in the concrete for the South-East Spange. A huge improvement in traffic through the triangular link from Vienna via Graz to Klagenfurt, bypassing the route across the upper Murtal and the Neumarkter saddle, would mean a reduction in the roadway of more than 60 kilometres and a reduction in travel time of more than one hour. Create best connections to the Italian high-performance network and via Tauern to Western Europe. By means of a coral railway, significant increases in freight could be achieved, as a departure from the current flow of goods from Austria towards Italy would be possible on a shorter route. Despite the Semmering tunnel, the capacity of the line Vienna–Bruck is exhausted in foreseeable time by the East Trucks. Therefore, the South-East Spanish must be offered as an alternative to the heavy traffic of Europe, otherwise there is a threat of Austria's passing over Trieste, Slovenia, West Hungary. There are already plans for such a journey. There's a hurry to be done. There one would have had the revenue from freight transport, while our roads were overrun by trucks and buses from the Eastern states and we would become the "out-puff" of Europe. That's not what we all want! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The South East Spange is a railway of international importance. In addition, the EU identifies southern Spain as an important long-term railway project in Austria and is part of the trans-European network. This would provide a boost to the domestic economy during construction and driving times and create a number of jobs. That would be more important today than ever. Extensive contracts for the domestic construction industry, for the steel plants and for the wagon factories, incentives for plant settlements along a line of 400 kilometres of European importance, largely through three economically disadvantaged southern states, namely Burgenland, Styria and Carinthia. The Ringbahn Wien–Eisenstadt–Graz–Villach–Salzburg–Vienna connects seven capitals plus the connecting to Innsbruck and Bregenz. They revive the sideways, because the main route is there, and the commuters and auxiliary workers find jobs nearby and do not need to drive for hours. Our roads would be relieved of heavy traffic; the damage from it we pay Austrians. In Styria, the Graz Economic Area has been in the last corner since 1918, by rail. The only two-track route from Graz to Bruck is already overloaded. 70 percent of the Steirers who live south of Bruck have to make use of old railway lines. We are therefore called on politically responsible people to make a priori progress in the development of transport routes with the focus on rail from economic, transport and also environmental considerations. As a Styrian representative, I am pleased that the road will finally be completed in the area of Semmering before more accidents occur there, as is the case with the infamous "Sparautobahn". My proposal is to start the South-East span in sections such as in Oberwart and Graz–Wolfsberg as well as to direct the traffic to the Rhein-Main-Donau-Channel, extend the line to Playfield towards Adria, say Koper, two-way. When it comes to the Ministry of the Future of Austria, I would like to ask for the trusting cooperation of all political groups in favour of economically weak areas in this century. Only when Austria's economic location is competitive will Austria remain a top-class job, thanks to which people in our country have a secure future. Therefore, to the South-East Spange: It's the highest railway!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40788	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40809	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! In my opinion, the Lower Austrian Members are true regional politicians, but I must already stress, ladies and gentlemen, there are also Lower Austrian Members who are for the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to focus on a subject in the field of transport: It's about local transport, and it's also about the sideways. I would like to make the reference, and I believe that it is important to consider cooperation and the close link between communities, countries, the Federal Government and also international links, particularly with regard to public transport. First example: There is in my region, the Mostviertel, a narrow railway, Gresten–Wieselburg. This railway is a narrow track, and it is necessary to change to a normal track, because in the area of Gresten there are some large companies operating in the production sector, and the capacity of the narrow track railway is no longer sufficient to ensure transport. If we did not make these considerations, these farms would be relocated and the region would be weakened. I think these changes are absolutely necessary. Second example: Another runway, another narrow track: Waidhofen–Lunz am See. This railway has always been considered very critical. The sensuality of this railway was questioned. Now the "Pro Ybbstalbahn" association was founded in this region and we were able to achieve a lot through this initiative. Since 1987 there has been an increase in the number of passengers by two-thirds, an increase in the attractiveness of this train has been achieved, and the fleet has also been modernized. Ladies and gentlemen! Where there are still problems, these are the lack of coordination of public transport road – rail, the parallel transport bus – and above all also the lack of supply services and irregularities in tacting. We therefore believe that the Opportunity Act and the Motorways Act should be re-examined in order to improve this transport, this public transport, and to ensure a coordinated procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! The rest of my speech I do not share in solidarity with my colleagues. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Clear commitment to the expansion of public transport alone is of no use. I mean, if there are measures and laws to be implemented in concrete terms, then words must also follow. That seems very important to me. Actions are also taken here when it comes to ensuring the rights of women and the rights of workers. I have tabled an amendment and a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40927	Both applications have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. I call Mr Kurt Wallner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e40960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief replica to Mr Schwarzenberger. It is a great day for Austrian football, for Rapid Vienna. I would just like to point out that we Leobeners from the DSV-Leoben have made a significant contribution to this, I just remember the Austrian Cup finale. We only lost 1 : 0, now leads Rapid 3 : 0, so that you can properly assess the value. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to use the Structural Adjustment Act to say something about public transport. In principle, I very much welcome this rail infrastructure law, because I also strongly hope that it will finally be possible to implement this important project, the Semmering Base Tunnel. Of course I also hope for financial impulses for the expansion of the Schober-Pyrn axis. Back to public transport. I believe that increased individual traffic, as we have been increasingly familiar with it in recent years, has had a great deal of negative effects. I remember the pollution and noise. I would therefore like to point out that the passenger car is certainly not the solution to our transport problems, and a transport policy which focuses exclusively on the passenger car is considered to be missing. The future focus of our responsible transport policy is certainly on the promotion of public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been numerous lip recognitions from different political directions, and I believe that this public transport, as we all want, is still too little support. On the contrary! In view of scarce funds, public transport funding has even been called into question in the medium to long term. Two keywords: The discussion on the increase in the tax on mineral oil and the ÖBB reform with plans for massive reduction in supply on regional railways is mentioned here. It is therefore high time to ensure the financing of local transport by means of a so-called local transport law and a local financing law. A short scenario: What if we did not have public transport to that extent? I know, for many, a vision, but because of the current political trends that are in the process of removing public transport and transport companies from the financial basis for the future, that is to say, a debateable one. The result would, of course, be a further shift of heavy traffic to the road, connected either with the total chaos or with increasing congestion, noise and air pollution, destruction of nature, huge landscape consumption. I would remind you that such a scenario would also bring social hardships. Just think of falling mobility when someone has to visit a doctor, visit authorities and make purchases, and much more. The economy too has to suffer because 50 percent of the goods are currently being transported on the rails. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the way on foot or the change to the bicycle or the formation of transport communities – which is of course desirable for transport policy – is not a realistic alternative to the use of public transport. It is, of course, another way forward until these two laws, which I have called for to finance local transport, can be passed here. Therefore, together with the local authorities, the Austrian Federal Railways are trying to finance orders on the regional railways to reach the secondary railways. I would like to highlight the two positive examples: There are different negotiating positions. Above all, the Burgenland is to be mentioned, which, as the first federal state, has concluded a contract and thus fixed the services for its counterparts in a contractual manner. Tomorrow will also be a big day for Vorarlberg. ==References== 4. this service contract will be signed, which will cost Vorarlberg 3 million schillings. I'll come to the end. But there is also a curious example where one can read that the will, especially the local authorities, in this case the local authorities, is not always as strong as in Burgenland or in Vorarlberg. I found a text in the "Nederösterreichische Nachrichten", since the Austrian Bundesbahnen wanted to run a midnight shuttle on the Westbahn track and asked the municipalities for financial support. Finally: One did not agree, and a 72-year-old pensioner had to get into his own pocket and financed this night train: not because he needed this train, but because of the argument that I am a youth and theaterist. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank this noble donor, but I do not think that can be the maximum of our transport policy. We are required to do this. Finally, I would like to say: I would like to see improvements being made in the various sideways. I would like to stress one point: the one between Leoben and Vorderenberg in Styria. For two and a half years, the region has been trying to move forward. To this day, one has not succeeded in finally building stops where people live. So, of course, you should not be surprised if people don't use the train. An invitation also to the Bundesbahn, as something has to be done so that the offer for the commuters and for the arrainers is improved as quickly as possible. Another comment: It was to be read in the Styrian media today that the Styrian counterparts are disadvantaged to the others. You will have to pay a surcharge for the use of Eurocity trains of the amount of 20, 80 and 82 S depending on the time map or day ticket they solve. On the other hand, I would like to express my protest. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41032	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41054	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me try at a later hour to deal with a few things shortly and point out some points of discussion. We are all pleased that the investment volume of the ÖBB has been increased, also because this increase can not only finance new buildings, but also many things that had been put in place. Whether it is the energy sector, the signal line constructions, the telecommunications facilities, the elimination of slow-moving routes or the like: The long-term objective of the ÖBB is to balance the road with the level of expansion in the high-level rail network. A note to this effect: In its defined A network with a total length of 5 593 km, the railway has only increased 38 percent accordingly to modern requirements, while the motorway and highway network of 11 829 km has already expanded to 94 percent. – That must give us some thought! Allow me a quote: "For the Styria, a rapid expansion of the South Railway is essential for ensuring the quality of the site. This includes primarily the Semmering Tunnel and the Koralmbahn from Graz to Klagenfurt." – End of the quote. This is what Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic said. You will be surprised that a SPÖ politician quotes the main country woman of Styria here. But I am happy to do so because it is also relevant to our concerns. Time and again, the opponents of tunnels are being put into play or scattered into the discussion, whether the old Ghega railway could not be used to find out which could be converted much cheaper. Allow me to give an answer: It's white nonsense! It would cost billions to clean up the old Ghega train. It is not possible, however, to bring them to the technical level that we need today. Moreover, a reconstruction would inevitably mean the complete destruction of this cultural and natural monument of technical nature by Carl Ritter von Ghega. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Firlinger – he's not in the hall – has talked about circumvention. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At this time he always sleeps!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Party is, after all, a party of entrepreneurs, of those who live by the economy. And then she wants to pass an important traffic route – the K.k. time this project was born – across Austria in the south, through Slovenia and through Hungary, where Austria is excluded. This would really be a circumvention, also a circumvention of the Austrian economy. Of course, we will not agree to this. Mr Anschober has been trying for many years to devastate the Semmering Tunnel. He's a low-Austrian... [[Call the Greens: He is Upper Austrian!]] He's from Upper Austria, excuse me. That there is already this connection between Lower Austria and Upper Austria is not entirely new to me, but it surprises me again and again. Today, Mr Fink has said very clearly – and I thank him for doing so – that he is also very much in favour of the Semmering Tunnel as a Steirer. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zweytick spoke of the South-East Spange. This is a project that needs to be realized. Until the South-East span is realized, the Styria, Carinthia, Salzburg would really have been around the south for a long time, which would mean a serious disturbance to the economic power of our country. Mr Kukacka! I can't quite save you: You always require exams, you always demand priority lists and more. – A lot has been tested, especially in the Semmering track. They know that this route has been declared as a high-performance route with the High-performance Railways Regulation 370/89, that there is a transfer regulation to HL-AG 1989, a 1991 Roads Regulation and the 1995 building permit. I would ask you to take note of this process! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I know we talked about funding. We will not be able to take note of anything else: that in an official report of the ORF report from the ORF's parliamentary editorship, a free employee, as he calls himself, a Mr Ferdinand Krenn, constantly throws dirt from the Semmering Tunnel.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41104	Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41120	It's a polemic we can't take. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41150	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41171	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add to my colleague Mr Binder from Lower Austria on the Semmering Base Tunnel and say to her: I am also a Upper Austrian for the construction of this tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't think you should see these things so closely. Because in today's international transport routes over several thousand kilometers, for example when transporting from St. Petersburg to Naples, it doesn't matter what country this train is rolling through. The most important thing is that the train can roll quickly, safely and safely and in order to protect the trailers as quickly as possible. And for that, a tunnel, I think, is the best suitable means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am already on my main subject, which I would like to cut briefly here, namely the protection of the workers. As pleased as the increased service offered by the Federal Railways is, every shift in the transport of goods and goods from the road to the rail is welcome, as much or more must also be considered the situation of passengers on railway lines. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, in Upper Austria, more than 240 trains daily travel on the Linz–Wels route and just in the night hours the somewhat louder freight trains. It is therefore all the more important that the efforts of the municipalities to put in place noise protection measures be strengthened and supported accordingly. Unfortunately, there is a great difference between the need for noise protection measures in the construction process and the need for rail to implement these noise protection measures, while this is not the case in the case of existing railways. On this point, the negotiations between the country, the municipality and the federal government or the Federal Railway need to be supported accordingly in this respect. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to support the communities in their efforts in this field – and there are a number of measures by the countries: noise protection catastrophes have been created, precise sections have been established – accordingly. How expensive such a noise protection measure can be, for example, can be seen in my district, in the municipality of Pasching, where for a distance of three kilometers with all the additional costs and with all basic solutions and building supervisors et cetera costs of a total of 30 million schilling for three kilometers have been incurred. This amount is to be divided between the federal government, i.e. train, municipality and country. It is therefore urgently necessary, since these are large amounts for the municipalities, that appropriate means are made available for noise protection measures, since the municipalities are not able to make up these funds on their own. Secondly, I would like to talk briefly about a problem which, as I hope, we can tackle as soon as possible after the budgetary consultations: It is necessary that the Aviation Act be amended in such a way that damaged persons are immediately compensated for damage. I mention an example from Upper Austria: On the landing of a charter aircraft at Hörsching Airport, the so-called eddy drags, that is, the soaking effect, were torn away over 90 roof tiles, and this homeowner had to wait almost nine months until his damage was replaced. In such cases too, it is necessary to establish a legal framework for the question of liability, which unfortunately God is not now clearly clarified by the Aviation Act, to be clearly regulated in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41238	The next speaker is Mr Sigl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41259	Mr President. Federal Minister! I also have the honour of speaking to the finals at today's debate on the 1996 federal proposal. At Chapter It is also very important to say a few rates with regard to private railways and the first promotions, especially with regard to payments made by the Federal Government to private railway operators in order to ensure their economic viability: Thus, the 1996 Federal estimates show that no single kilometre train in Austria could be operated and operated without State subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have discussed in great detail more than 13 hours on the important chapters of social, scientific and transport. As in the past, we are concerned with jobs for Austrian workers. We are concerned with Austria's economic location also for the future. And the measures should also be good for the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41292	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not need a final word. It is voted on by the Scientific and Transport Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This Advisory Group shall include Articles 89, 90, 92 to 97 in 95 of the Supplements. There are amendments, one by Mrs Schwemlein. Kukacka and comrades and one of the Deputies, Mag. Kukacka and comrades. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by these requests and then on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group, which have not yet been voted on. The amendment tabled by Mrs Schwemlein, Mag. Kukacka and comrades concern Art. 95 §§ 3, 10, 17 para. 7 and 23. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion by Schwemlein/Kukacka for a sign. – This is the majority, and is therefore accepted. In addition, the Members of Parliament have a strong mandate, Mag. Kukacka and comrades 95 § 18 para. 1 and § 19 para. 2 introduced. Here again, I should like to ask for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request. – This is also decided by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the Scientific and Transport Advisory Group, which are Articles 89, 90 and 92 to 97, as amended by the Committee's report. Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a sign in this regard. I note that these articles have also been adopted by a majority. I have the proposal within the meaning of § 55 para. 5 LEG on the motions for resolutions to be put to the vote at once. I assume that there is no objection. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why we're going to go this way. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brauneder and others on compensation for examination. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Brauneder, to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. There is another motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Brauneder and comrades on the inequality of students at higher education courses with students at universities and art universities in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Studienförderungsgesetz. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution, Dr Brauneder and comrades, for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the next motion for a resolution. It is by the Deputies of Vergestnich, Kukacka and comrades concerning species. 95 of the Structural Adjustment Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 6.) We have therefore voted on all the proposals. I can now interrupt the deliberations until tomorrow, Friday, 9 a.m. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the Agriculture Advisory Group will continue. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.16 p.m. and resumed at 19. April 1996, resumed by 9.02.) Continued the meeting: 19. April 1996
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41416	I'll take the interrupted 16. Meeting of the National Council again on. Mr Höchtl, Mag. Chief, Mrs Mag. Kammerlander, Hans Helmut Moser and Dr. Willi Fuhrmann. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41457	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Schüssel is appointed by Mr. Fassl evening. Articles 84 and 85 of the Structural Adjustment Act 1996 Agriculture
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41487	We continue in the negotiations on the Structural Adjustment Act. The debate is the Agriculture Advisory Group. It covers Articles 84 and 85. The rapporteur will be brief. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41506	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would ask the National Council to give constitutional approval to Articles 84 and 85 of the draft Structural Adjustment Act 1996 as amended by the Committee's report (95 of the Supplements). Mr President, I would ask you to proceed in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41527	Thank you to the rapporteur. The speaking times for today's session are as follows: SPÖ 165 minutes, ÖVP 154 minutes, Freedom 143 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. The rules for the members of the Federal Government are known. The first speaker is MP Ing. Reichhold. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41554	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In the daily newspaper "Kurier", the famous cartoonist Zehethmayr – Zehentmayr, thank you – presented Parliament and MEPs, the colleagues of this House, as puppets. [[Abg. May. Warning: Toentmayr!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's already starting with a mistake!]] And I have to say that he is unfortunately not quite wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you feel like Marionette?]] Because you have become – I understand your excitement – the leaders of the government. Clubobmann Khol or Georgy Schwarzenberger may have been involved. But the great majority of the Red and Black Members document with this decision-making of the savings package and the budget, that in principle it has nothing to talk about. And that's sad. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is sad for a Parliament which sees itself as a powerful representation of Austrian citizens. And that is also the de facto elimination of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You can't disappear over that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't talk about the elimination of Parliament, Reichhold!]] And if some of our colleagues come down here to the speaker's desk and invite us to cooperate and act as if our alternative proposals, which we are bringing here, still have effect, still bring about changes, then that may not be serious, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Nevertheless, in our contributions, we will present our ideas on the budget. Unfortunately, in the course of the agricultural debate next week, it is not possible to address agricultural policy in detail, because on Friday we will have to discuss the chapter on agriculture under "others", which I would like to say today, in the context of the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act, in principle, on agricultural policy. High house! The agricultural budget has been reduced from 32 billion to 27 billion schilling, and this is because last year's stock cuts are no longer paid out. However, it has also been a major area that determines agricultural income, and these are the degressive compensatory payments which, as agreed with the European Union, are now declining, which will naturally have a negative impact on agricultural incomes. The 2.2 billion schilling, which will no longer be paid out this year, will not be compensated for by higher prices, and this will be seen as a real net loss in the agricultural profit account, in the success account. If it were said by the Austrian Farmers' Federation that the farmers would not be taken away, the Europe package would not have made significant cuts, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that massive cuts are being made in particular in the social field. In addition to increasing the share of own resources by 300 million schillings or taxing farmers, it should also be borne in mind that at the beginning of the year an increase in social security contributions by 4.3 percent has already been made. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The increase in pensions is three times as high!]] In total, the burden on agriculture is 1.6 billion schilling. You can't do that with a hand movement! This will, of course, also be paid by farmers' incomes, by the farmers' raw incomes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are always trying to hide that after accession to the EU there has been a serious failure to adapt the pre-tax rate. In particular, the mass of flat-rate farmers suffers from this loss from the advance tax. This is not an insignificant amount, i.e. 1.2 billion schilling. In the Europe package or before the negotiations, your coalition partner assured you that this point will be reviewed as soon as Austrian agriculture is integrated into the European Union as soon as it is clear how much price loss has actually been lost. Unfortunately, this has not happened to this day. 1.2 billion schilling: This means, for example, that 700 s of waste is lost per bovine animal, at a time when the agricultural environment is still very difficult. Or the currency losses: In particular, the cattle sector is affected by the lira weakness; I am not speaking of this as a Carinthian farmer, who is particularly affected by the difficult situation in Italy, on the Italian market. Farmers have also been promised compensation from the European Union. Since August 255 million schillings have been available for collection in Brussels. To date, however, you have not been able to adopt the relevant directives so that this currency loss of agriculture can actually be compensated for. So there are many points, and if I count them all together, it becomes clear that the pressure wave for farmers is an amount of more than 5 billion schilling. This is a huge contribution from farmers to the savings package and budget consolidation because of the very difficult framework conditions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the conditions of competition for Austrian agriculture are not the best. At the country level, farmers suffer from the very high slaughter fees and tax charges at the international level, at the federal level, under the high energy costs. In the field of marketing contributions, Austrian farmers pay about twice as much as our German neighbours, and this is rightly criticized by your expert at the Economic Research Institute. That is to say, the competitiveness of Austrian agriculture has been further deteriorated by homemade failures, and I call on you, Mr Federal Minister, to make every effort to create better conditions for farmers. All of this is already reflected in a negative income trend. Georgy Schwarzenbacher has spoken in a speech in Parliament... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: If at least you could say the name right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Black is definitely right!]] "Georgy" is right! From this speaker's point of view, I can pick you out the speech – already said last year – Schwarzenegger, well – he is convinced that the overall agricultural income in 1995 will not be worse, but better. [[Abg. May. Firer: Schwarzenegger!]] Today we know. As Schneider said, despite these high compensatory payments in the first year, agricultural income is already negative. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Is not true!]] And the per capita income, Mr Gartlehner, is only positive because the total cake of agricultural income is divided into fewer farmers. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: But today you're not good at it!]] Your policy is due to the fact that 10 000 jobs in agriculture have been lost in the last year. At a time when every job has to be fought for, this is not necessarily a fame sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But there are about these difficult, political disadvantages... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why do you say "thank"? That means you welcome that?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: If you welcome something, you are for it too!]] I must say one thing to you, Mr Khol: We are already happy with your government if it is not more than 10,000 jobs that are lost here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: Yes, it is!]] But in addition to these disadvantages and difficulties for agriculture caused by the government, of course, other market conditions are also decisive for the crisis. We had an opportunity in this House to discuss the issue of cattle wahn. You've also reacted a lot too late. You should not have simply taken our proposal away from the table and in good time enforced the ban on imports of British beef and veal, then we would have been much spared. I think it is important to restore the consumer's confidence in Austrian cattle production by all means now, Mr Federal Minister. The reform of the AMA seal is also a very essential point in this context. They have expressed great willingness to intensify the directives, not only in the field of sausages and processed products, but also in the fresh meat sector. For it is now a fact that a 30 percent share of foreign feed is approved in the ration. I know that this is a concession to the protein lobby, which, of course, allows many imports to Austria, but if that is not the case – you shake your head – then I wonder why a 30 per cent share of foreign feed is allowed in the ration, although we know today that the bovine will be triggered via feed and therefore all risks are to be minimized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the Austrian quality mark that the Chamber of Commerce grants – unfortunately, I hardly see any representatives of the Chamber of Commerce here today –: If it is possible that a 50 percent share of value added already leads to the Austrian quality seal being awarded, then this is really a dizziness. In practice, this would mean: For example, if Dutch meat was imported to Austria, stored here for a few days, broken down, packaged and sold, it would give a 50 percent value added, and Dutch meat would receive the seal of quality of the Chamber of Commerce. – I think this is an unfavorable one that is quickly stopped. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not know what influence the Federal Government can take on it legally, but it is at least an appeal to the Chamber of Commerce to change that. What is often forgotten is that in some regions much of the agricultural income is generated over the wood industry. And this winter, in some regions of Austria, there is a really crisis situation on the wood market. The harsh winter has of course brought large amounts of shady wood, the price decline in the wood sector is currently between 30 and 40 percent. This is, of course, a serious blow for the forestry industry and for the mixed farms, which, in part, really come into existential need, because even the other framework conditions for them have become so poor. The development costs for sanding and fibre wood are in fact far below sales revenues, and if, for this reason, the cleaning work progresses only slowly, the risk of pests increases, and the pest pressure becomes even greater. I believe that it is necessary also to set up initiatives by the Federal Government in order to speed up the cleaning work and to limit the disease. This is not particularly useful, Mr Federal Minister, if, in the 1996 budget, for example, you estimate more than 250 million Schillings in relation to the Federal Forests in 1994. Based on the fact that the price of wood will be 30 to 40 percent lower – which, as I hear from the experts, is not simply a temporary appearance of the market, but we will have to live longer with these very low prices – our experts and employees have calculated that if you want to keep this budget in the Federal Forests, the impact will have to increase dramatically by up to a million feet. This would mean increasing the impact of wood on the Federal Forests by up to 50 per cent, and this would not only result in the introduction of a cavalry programme within the Federal Forest, but would also further lower the price of wood. – You may not be able to ask us to go there and give it the consent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There you just have to sell the power plant Mühlbach, for that you get enough!]] Yes, Mr Schwarzenberger, that is true, but it will certainly not be possible to bring these additional revenues alone via basic sales. You can't tell me that! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I would like to address another aspect because it really upsets me, as is argued here. Mr Schwarzenberger has made known in several publications and opinions – also here in the House – how successful the export policy of Austrian agriculture is. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: To Italy!]] You always call the example of Italy. It's true: We have exported 116 000 tonnes of milk to Italy. However, we do not conduct our own statistics in Austria, but we must try the ambassador in Rome to use the Italian import statistics for our statements. That means that these statements do not always have to be valid. Nor do you mention the price of these exports. That was almost 4 S. And if you say that milk exports are a significant gain for agriculture at the price of 4 s per litre, that is simply not true. There's nothing left of value added. That means we export to Italy, but we don't deserve anything. This is also reflected in the 1995 report of the Institute of Economic Research, which speaks of a massive collapse of final production and raw yield in agriculture. So you can't say that's a great success. The second area, namely the export and trade with Germany, with our most important partner within the European Union, has actually collapsed in the first year. Although imports from Germany increased from 7 billion Schilling in 1994 to 11 billion Schilling in 1995 – that is, the German agricultural giants have already conquered our market in the first year, and large exports to Austria have been made – the Austrian export to Germany has fallen from 4 billion Schilling in 1994 to 2.8 billion Schilling in 1995. That is to say, the agricultural trade deficit rose from 3 billion schillings to 8 billion schillings in the first year, so it has increased by 5 billion schillings. This is a disastrous development in the market, and you cannot say that this is a successful policy. This policy is a disaster! The agricultural market Austria is also largely responsible for this, because its instrument of market advertising, market research has not been successful in Germany in particular. This is very sad, therefore, because farmers are obsessing compulsory contributions to their products. We can't resist it. What bothers us is that the agricultural market in Austria does not have to prove its success. That is why we need more than reform. If one reads in the newspapers, for example in the "Economic Week", that the Austrian export hits are not the Tyrolean mountain cheese or the Tyrolean bacon, but the dosengulasch of Inzersdorfer or the Almdudler and that these are our essential brand products, then, I must say, you really do not need to be proud of the fine food shop Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this, of course, leads to no prospects in agriculture, not even for the young court transferees. Last Wednesday, Professor Schneider spoke of the fact that, in view of the migration from agriculture, it is particularly worrying, in the order of 5 per cent, that the potential transferors migrate far above the average from agriculture; he mentions a figure between 8 and 10 per cent. That is, if this development continues, then in a few years we will no longer have a youth in agriculture, which sees prospects and is willing to continue there. Minister! Of course, it hurts if you want to market Austria as an eco-land in international discussions and discussions, but it seems that the government negotiations have been overturned precisely what the environmental programme is going on. I really must tell you that this environmental programme for Austrian agriculture is indeed positive. And you know just as well as I do that these environmental measures have already been very well adopted by farmers and agriculture in the first year and, of course, also this year and perhaps next year, there is an additional need for the introduction of these environmental programmes. I think it was a strategic mistake that you have just given up on this point. Above all, the way you have to do this now is a bit strange for us as an opposition party. If you want to put a stop to entry or enforce it with instructions to the Chamber of Agriculture today, you know exactly that you are taking action on the basis of directives which are only to be negotiated with the European Union. These directives will be: It is likely to be approved by the European Union only in summer or possibly in autumn. Therefore, this procedure is legally more than dubios. I can already predict to you today that there will be complaints against you, against the Republic and against the Minister by many farmers who want to participate in the environmental programme and who will also make appropriate proposals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to make a few comments on your savings measures, because I believe that if you want to save everywhere, it is a command of the hour that will also be saved in bureaucracy. They have actually tried to work with the red pencil in individual areas – you can understand that. But it is incomprehensible for us that the Chambers of Agriculture will receive 150 million schillings to carry out the decentralised data collection, but no savings in the agricultural market in Austria will be visible to the appropriate extent in the budget. This is what you have to tell me today, where you are doing savings, because this is exactly the task that the agricultural chambers are carrying out this year, the officials of the agricultural market Austria did last year. There I can see no savings with God. Or: Is it really necessary for today's Presidential Conference to receive 20 million schillings in addition to travel across Europe and, under the title of internationalization, obviously to travel from one assembly to another in Europe? – Why demand Do you not also want the President-in-Office's Conference to take savings if you already ask the farmers to do so? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: You yourself now create your own PR office in your cabinet or in your sphere of influence. I already understand that you want to sell and market yourself to be often enough in the newspaper, but it seems suspicious that you are setting up this PR office just this year. I have the suspicion that with these resources, which you are budgeting in addition, you are also trying to make a contribution to the European election campaign. For, Mr Federal Minister, you did not know an answer to my written question as to how much money you make available for advertising measures. This shows that these funds are obviously to be used for election campaign purposes. And then the large area of the secondary services of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. You have announced here – and your predecessors have done so for years – that there will be reforms, mergers, savings. But nothing has happened to this day. The workforce is extremely uncertain, there are no prospects either. They are now announcing a reform for the next year, but if for years only announcements are made, the officials and the staff are also slowly losing their trust. For example, I have heard – and this has just been told to me recently – that you want to sell the collection station in Wels, a collection station that has made a profit of 5.8 million schilling, where currently 16 people are employed. They sell this institution by 20 to 25 million schilling. In the background, one hears, a speculation purchase of the city municipality Linz is planned, and this area of size of 17 000 square meters is likely to continue with profit. These are the measures that we certainly cannot go along with, because you are selling a profit-making federal institution, but you are building two institutions in return. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Who builds?]] The first costs 30 million schilling, which is a pig collection facility planned in Ried and a second in Sattledt, costs: 50 million schilling. So you're selling a profitable station and you're building two new collection stations that cost 80 million schilling. [[Abg. Auer: Who builds?]] Whoever builds this, it always costs. [[Abg. Auer: But not the Minister! If you don't even know who's building there!]] These privatisation steps are not structural reform with God, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can conclude by not taking away too much speaking time from my colleagues. But I would like to conclude by saying: I believe, Minister of State, that you must also offer the young farmers visions. As a result of the accession to the European Union and the development within the European Union, there are no longer incentives to continue working in agriculture. This also shows the negative development of the transferees. I believe that the centralist section of the European Union is blocking agricultural policy in Austria and that we should do everything we can to create more scope and regain our independence, at least in those areas where we can really make income policy for agriculture. If the European Union withdraws from it, provides for external protection and takes a strong position in world trade within the GATT negotiations, I understand that. But we must definitely try to bring the income situation back into focus in Austria with our own concepts. In the near future, we will also present a proposal which takes very seriously into account the criterion of job security in agriculture, because I think that this aspect is not taken into account in the current support system. At the end of my opinion, I would like to put another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41918	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e41942	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Reichhold have repeatedly called me Univ.-Prof. Matthias Schneider. However, he has only brought parts of his statements. Therefore, with the central statement of the press conference or its lecture at the Öko-social Forum Austria, I am entitled to receive the 10th edition of the press conference. Start April. His introduction was: "1995 in the sign of EU integration." He then said: "Agriculture has survived the first EU year 1995 < despite a difficult starting position and problems in transition to a new agricultural system in general well. The integration of agricultural prices and raw agricultural income was largely offset by higher direct payments. This enabled agricultural incomes to be secured for the first time." – As far as Prof. Schneider is concerned. If you're already quoting, you should quote everything. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A second correction: It is not true that payments to rural social security schemes, where an increase in the base of calculation was made by 4.3 percent in 1996, are much higher than the increase in pensions. An increase in pension insurance contributions by 4.3 percent means 145 million schilling for all farmers in 1996. At the same time, however, the payment of the farmer's pension is increasing by 430 million schilling for the essentially constant number of farmers' pensioners. The social security institution's performance is thus almost triple higher than that of contributions which had to be increased in 1996 under the general social security scheme. The maximum basis of assessment and the lowest basis of assessment are adapted to the average income development of workers. However, I still prefer this scheme to those in the commercial pension insurance institution, in which the minimum basis of assessment is almost two and a half times higher than that in agriculture. I would like to draw attention to the average income development of workers in the changes in the minimum and maximum basis of assessment. I'm coming back to the statements of Univ.-Prof. Schneider from the Wifo. This reflects our efforts. Granted, in 1995, the first year of accession to the EU, it was extremely difficult for Austrian farmers: We had to give up a protected market and close borders and put ourselves in a European competition. But: Not only the EU alone is the cause of this. The so-called Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations has been concluded in December 1993 and the results have entered into force in 1995 where export support has been mandatory, so to speak, for all GATT countries, 36 percent within six years. I therefore refer to our neighbouring country Switzerland. In the past, we have often compared ourselves with Switzerland: In Switzerland last year, agricultural incomes – you hear and marvel! – has fallen by 12 percent – in Switzerland, which is not a member of the EU! – because the income situation has become so worse in Switzerland as a result of the rapid decline in the prices of cattle and milk. With a valley farm in Switzerland, the average income is 8 700 francs, and if we convert the franc at 8.67 s – the current price – this means an income minus of 75 000 S for the valley and 52 000 S for the mining operation, because the income of the miners in Switzerland is also much lower than that of the valley farms. There are already total comparisons to be made. For us from the Austrian People's Party, it was important that, despite a savings measure or a reduction in the budget deficit of around 100 billion schilling of the European Treaty, as agreed in April and May 1994, we should keep in balance. This was also successful; it was not the case in the autumn. The budget provision is also the same as for public funds, which were increased in the context of the special session last autumn from 5.3 billion to 7.4 billion schilling, for the next few years. The only problem is that the Austrian farmers have made such extensive use of this programme. We originally expected to dot with Bavarian conditions, but for Austria we have already added much more. May I introduce the ÖPUL – or the Bavarian cultural landscape programme, as it is called there? – In Bavaria, only 39 000 farms have participated in the programme of around 200 000 farms that run 3.38 million hectares. Within the framework of the Bavarian agricultural programme, comparable to our ÖPUL programme, grants of 1.35 billion schilling are paid. This shows that our programme is much more interesting. In Austria, the farmers have made extensive use of it. Now we are facing the alternative: Since these directives apply for five years and the farmer is also obliged to comply with these ecological measures for five years, this programme must, of course, be financed for five years. For this purpose, we have 7.4 billion schilling available in the budget, and in the extreme emergency 600 million shilling is carried out by budget shifts, which must then be deducted from other funding. In this regard, the following consideration shall be made: The ÖPUL programme consists of 2.3 billion schilling of EU funds, 3.1 billion schilling of federal funds and 2 billion shilling of funds from the countries. There EU funds are fixed. There is a percentage co-financing of the EU for all other funding. Now, if we shift funds from the other funding to the OPUL programme, we will no longer receive funding from the EU for the OPUL programme. However, we cannot use the necessary co-financing for the other funding. These were the considerations why this programme was slowed down, but it is not true that there is a total stop to entry, but this is designed in such a way that a further entry is still possible for organic farms – and at least more than 10 percent of Austrian farms are already organically operating. There have also been a number of farmers last year, who have also participated in the inter-greenery and have already taken and implemented such measures in the autumn. Of course, it is still possible to get into this area. In other words, we should consider intelligently how we can use as many ECUs as possible from Brussels for Austria. Since we are net payers, we could fully exploit these support measures, which are financed by Brussels in proportion and percentage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Parliamentary Reichhold has criticised the fact that currency adjustment has not yet been paid out due to the lira depreciation last year. Austria has admittedly a hope market in Upper Italy. Last year, agricultural exports to Italy rose by 80 percent, not by quantity, but by amount. The Lira devaluation made us very much in agricultural prices, especially in meat prices. For this purpose 255 million Schilling is planned for Austria. However, we call for a doubling of these funds from national budgets, from federal resources and possibly from national resources. The 1996 budget also provides for the necessary 60 percent of national funds of 153 million schilling. Mr Reichhold! I do not know what your deputy or executive clubman would say if Minister of Agriculture Molterer paid these amounts before making the budget, if he had no legal coverage in this area. But one thing I would like to point out very clearly here – in the Stenographical Protocol of 21. On the agenda, the first reading on the budget was: Mr Haider's speech states the following key statement, which makes us very brightly farmers: "A country which is engaged in spending 54 billion schilling alone at the federal level in 1995 for subsidies must ask itself whether there would be no potential for savings that would prevent citizens from being taken into the bag on the one hand." First of all, we are opposed to Haider's agricultural support being presented as subsidies. These are compensations for benefits which farmers provide multiculturally and which are not paid by the prices. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Axle.]] That is why I mention this because it is already a repeater on this point. He said in the "press hour" in February 1995 that he would also halve the subsidies for farmers, because these would still be funds from the EU and from the countries. So there the FPÖ is already very unbelievable. This is also evidenced by the fact that Haider does not even find it worth the effort to be present at the agricultural debate in plenary. I would like to point out something: This week, on which the Structural Adjustment Act is concerned, we have already had six votes in favour, and this can be read in the Minutes – none of these votes will find the name of Mr Haider, neither among the votes in favour nor among the votes in favour. He was not present here during all this time. If this goes on, it will be possible to say that Haider refers half of his national council and clubman pay as unemployed income. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In principle, I can say that the funds for the 1996 agricultural budget amount to 29 billion schillings, where 13 billion shillings are included in EU funds, and the funds for the 1997 agricultural budget correspond to 27 billion shillings essentially to the donation agreed in the Europe Treaty. That's what we've insisted on over and over again. But that is not the end of the agricultural policy. I know about the many efforts made by Minister of Agriculture Molterer at the Council of Agriculture Ministers in Brussels and during the many discussions with the ministers of agriculture in other countries. It is very much committed to better conditions for the Austrian farmers. I would therefore like to thank him on behalf of our members – which is at least more than 80 percent of all farmers – for his commitment and encourage him to continue in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42056	Mr Donabauer has referred to an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the provisions to be observed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42081	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Reichhold has here found that the additional burden in rural social security in 1996 would amount to 1.2 billion schilling. The fact is that by 1.1.1996 the increase in contributions by 4.3 percent resulted in 295 million schilling on additional burden and that the contribution increase of 4 percent is 276 million under the Structural Adjustment Act. That means that there are a total of 571 million schilling and not 1.2 billion schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42111	Mr Reichhold has reported on another actual correction. I would draw attention to the fact that this is not a personal response to Mr Donabauer, but an actual correction to Mr Schwarzenberger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42135	Mr President. High house! Mr Schwarzenberger has here said to Mr Haider that he would have meant agriculture in the reduction of subsidies. [[Call the ÖVP:Expressly!]] I'll put it right: In his parliamentary speeches, Dr Haider has never said that agriculture should fall victim to subsidies. [[Call to the ÖVP: In the "press hour"]] This claim is completely incorrect! You can't find that in any protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42192	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What I brought here as a sighting material, here in my hands, is a small amount of pet food, finely clean packed in cellophane... [[The speaker holds a sackerl in the height]] [[Abg. Dr. Nisser: Actionism!]] [[Abg. Wabl: In the truest sense of the word cheaper actionism!]] No, my colleague! You have to listen to me. – I removed this quantity from the original packaging at 8 o’clock in the morning. This is still in my office, and if anyone doubts the authenticity of this sample, I would like to invite him to go down with me following this debate or even during this debate to carry out a small local eye-catching. Of course, the Federal Minister is also invited to participate. The original packaging, a 50 kilogram bag, shall bear the following name: "Manufacturer: Rethmann TBA, Tulln GmbH, A-3430 Tulln, Bildreich 3. " Below is still in red letters: "self-nutrients. Animal meal rich in fat." Then there are some details: "Rohprotein at least 55 %, raw fat above 11 %, phosphorus maximum 5 %, NaCl – so salt – "maximum 2 %". And then it says: "Date", but there's nothing stamped. Ladies and gentlemen! So you see on the basis of this data: When purchasing this feed additive, there was no grey or black distribution channel, but I got this material very serious, very legal, highly official in one of the Austrian animal body recycling sites. What are the ingredients of this animal body flour? – These are animal protein carriers. They come from the exploitation of dogs, cats, cattle, pigs... [[Abg. Dr. Khol goes to the speaker's desk and examines the Sackerl that lies there with the animal body flour.]] You can have a sample, Mr. Klubobmann. I'll give it to you. – So these animal protein carriers come from the exploitation of dogs, cats, pigs, sheep, chickens and so on, all in a similar mixture. If you smell at it, then you will find that a lighter skin-goût develops, i.e. a delicate direction – so you could describe it – with hydrogen atmosphere, provided that the respective sense of smell is still quite in measure. If I have now reached a relatively high level at the beginning, it simply makes sense that in this House I would like to raise the awareness of the problem a little bit, because in fact it is a very serious problem, even a most serious problem. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is forbidden in Austria to give this feed to cattle and sheep, i.e. to pure plant eaters. It is not, however, prohibited to feed ladies and gentlemen, animal meal on pigs and chickens, which is extremely disturbing to me in the face of established and objectively understandable facts. As you have heard, in addition to a rough overview of the composition, the original packaging does not provide any information on how the farmer is to process the animal meal. It is also not "animal flour" on it, but "animal flour" on it. I would have expected at least that the packaging would be on it: Feeding to cattle and sheep prohibited. I would have expected this, especially since we all know what is going on in Europe and in Austria and in many countries. But I didn't find any of that. I looked twice. I've also turned the bag around to see if there's such a clue on it. But that's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that in Austria there are not a few farms which are highly mixed farms, i.e. farms which live from the pig manure and also from the cattle farming or from the dairy sector. I claim, however, that without criminalizing a single Austrian farmer or wishing to put an illegal act into his shoes, it seems... [[Abg. Black goat: Not at all! Not at all!]] No, my colleague, really not! Listen to me! Please, listen to me! Don't always be so squeaky and offended when you say something. It's always the same theater. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You don't get the idea at all!]] No, my colleague! You have to listen, and then you can report, you can say it's not right what he says, and so on. But not so! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore claim that the problem lies with the mixed farms, where cattle farming, pig farming, dairy farming and pig farming are combined. It often happens. As sad as it is, there are confusions, there are errors, there can sometimes also be a negligence, and therefore one has to analyze this crime with its possible consequences extremely sensitive and also point to the consequences quite clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! Because the BSE disease really represents a Europe-wide disaster, a disaster that has so far been unimaginable, it would be very likely now, hic et nuc, to reinforce the security measures without if and but. That's why I allowed myself to... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Now, hic et nunc"?]] Yes, my colleague, hec et nunc! Therefore, I have allowed myself to put forward a motion for a resolution – it has already been tabled – because we Liberals do not want to put ourselves on the accusation that we would see this. This motion for a resolution was adopted on 16 June. 4. I would like to tell you a little bit about what is inside. It is true that the disease at the Bovines Spongiform Encephalopathy, i.e. BSE, goes back to feeding with substances that were introduced into the feed chain through the animal meal due to the sheep suffering from scrapie. This is a well-known state of knowledge. It is, of course, still gratifying about how the exact contexts are. But there is also a need for action in Austria. The general feeding of animal and bone flour in food production should be suspended by law at least until the date on which the contexts are really clarified. That's all we're asking – but not less. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I therefore hope that this proposal will not be dealt with in the same way as many other requests made by us liberals in the past, namely that, because it is not government-friendly, because it is not brought in by the government parties, it is shubbled and then, as it were, stowed and smeared. I hope, Mr Schwarzenberger, that this will not be the case, but in this case it would not concern you, because we have asked for allocation to the Committee on Health. I will also allow Mrs Krammer, in a personal discussion, to draw attention to the importance of parliamentary committee deliberations on this matter. Austria's agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, has a whole range of problems that are urgent. I agree with the Minister that he is trying to solve the problems ahead. I'll have to agree with him. Wherever the Minister himself directs decisions, it is quite a matter of course. But wherever the Minister is dependent on his ministry, the AMA is dependent on it to enable this decision-making process, it does not work. Examples of this are in shell and fullness. Where the Minister goes directly, I have to say that I can accept some of his actions, and I am also pleased that he has not given his approval to the recent release request for genetically modified maize. But I didn't expect it any different, honestly. I would have been disappointed if he had acted differently. But the problem is not so much the Minister in this context, but the problem is really the ministry. You feel more and more like the minister doesn't have his people in the right hands. I can also imagine that, and this has already been mentioned today, the Chambers of Agriculture have put quite a pressure on them to enable this budget expansion. For, Mr Schwarzböck, it is not plausible for me that, in times of a rather drastic savings package, the agricultural chambers will receive more money. It is at least a question of good taste whether one demands and enforces such a thing. I might even go a step further and say: Actually, I feel it as an expression. Even if you argue with this, Mr Commissioner, the Chambers of Agriculture now have the task of doing more to investigate more, I must say: Other institutions also have such orders. It's from your side, I think, but it's hard to argue. I do not want to strip the whole range of things that are a matter of urgency, but I would just like to take a few things very briefly. Keywords "Green Plan", Mr. Federal Minister. – I have read the Green Plan in detail. It was then negotiated in the Committee on Budgets' deliberations, as I hear, because I myself was not there; I admit it. But I have read it very carefully and have also seen if I find something between the lines. - I didn't find anything. In my opinion, it is a wordable statement that there are problems, but I really did not find any concrete action in the Green Plan – not to be evil, Mr Federal Minister. If we want to hold targeted agricultural debates, I think we should go much more into the details. And I would like to ask you already, Minister of State: What did you plan? – It’s one thing to say: We want to change something!, but it's a second thing to actually make these changes possible, and to put pressure on the places that, so to speak, execute the thing. Both must be in a reasonable agreement, otherwise it is Larifari, Federal Minister! Another point is the alternatives in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week I met a rather interesting alternative project. This is the suspension of a cattle herd near Marchegg in the area of Marchauen. There, 26 cattle from Galloway's breeding were exposed. These cattle have the great advantage that they can be out all year long; they even calf in the snow. This is a highly interesting innovative project. Mr Federal Minister, the EU makes it possible for us to push forward such projects. I only notice that this is not yet assumed by the population. There is a need for information, Minister, to inform the people, especially the agricultural population, of a reasonable project, where the intensive management is based on the extensive one, where the farmer can also achieve an adequate income and where, above all, the input output ratio is right. We also see quite clearly, however, that is a pilot project that the European Union has enabled, which is being co-financed. I believe, Minister of State, that we still need many such projects, and I really ask you to go in this direction. I'll come back again to the words in the entrance. My colleague, Mr Barmüller, will then also address the ÖPUL programme; there is a lot to be said about this. I will allow myself to go back to the meat hygiene during the health debate this week. I have really interesting material, which is also treated accordingly. Federal Minister! So that you do not forget the matter with the meat meal as quickly as possible and accept this problem with the appropriate emphasis, I would like to give you one of these samples, and I also ask you to give Mrs Krammer a second sample. This is just to put this up for memory and think about what you can do in a quick way. In this context, I would also like to ask you to support our request in the committees. I can give you these samples and ask for the appropriate initiatives to be taken. [[the speaker submits to the Federal Minister Mag. Molterer under the applause of the Liberal Forum two Sackerl]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42384	So this speech seems to have ended. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. He's got the floor. – speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42414	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger! However, I should like to point out that in the debate of the subcommittee of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Krammer, which has already replied to a question in this direction, I would like to remind you that she is prepared to make these legal changes in cooperation with the Minister for Agriculture, that there are already contacts and that it is to be expected that this will be implemented quickly. Therefore, the gifts may have arrived a little late. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is about structural adjustment in the field of agriculture and forestry; structural adjustment in conjunction with a two-year budget; structural adjustment, but also which has been discussed, addressed, addressed and also called for by my group in the past on the most diverse occasions. I refer, for example, to discussions in the Milk Research Committee and to various debates on the Green Reports, on forest reports and the like. With the accession to the European Union, these structural problems and the still not fully implemented and therefore missing restructuring were apparent. These new structures, which we Socialists have repeatedly called for, such as greening, extensification, organic farming, conversion to high-quality products and the preservation of the small-scale structure, and thus increased support for the two-professional farmers as a stabilising element in agriculture, are no longer taboo topics after the first year of common agricultural policy in the European Union. Only the knowledge came a little late. Ladies and gentlemen! With this in mind, I am not alone with the SPÖ either. Rather, the professor Dr. Schneider, who is already quoted today and recognized by the Liberals and the Austrian People's Party as an expert, is also present in the presentation already quoted by Mr Schwarzenberger about nine days before the Eco-Social Forum – and I quote it literally here: "The EU accession makes the ever-known but previously little-observed setback on structural adjustment in agriculture unmistakable. The same applies to parts of the food industry and the suppliers of resources. Economic pressure has now partly brought stoned structures into motion for decades, but the search for new forward-looking solutions is far from complete. Efficiency, strict market orientation, competitiveness (European maturity) are the new key elements." In order to ensure that these new keywords and this sudden structural transformation in the agricultural sector do not lead to even greater pressure on this important industry in our country and to even greater problems, so that not all the efforts that have been made so far have been in vain and there is a great social solidarity with agriculture. This also confirms Prof. Schneider. Mr Schwarzenberger has already brought this quote. I therefore save myself from bringing it back. But in this quote, Prof. Schneider also confirms this great social solidarity. A further confirmation of this social solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, can be found in the overviews and tables of the 1996 and 1997 Federal estimates of our Minister of Finance Mag. Climate. I should like to draw your attention to the table or overview 25 which is titled "Federal for Economic Development 1995-1997". If in 1995 28.1 billion, in 1996 24.1 billion and in 1997 22.3 billion Shilling appeared only under the heading "Promoting measures for agriculture", whereas in the case of "Promoting measures for industry and industry" 3.9 billion for 1995, 3.6 billion for 1996 and 3.6 billion for 1997 and for "Promoting measures in the field of labour market policy" 6 billion for 1995, 5.4 billion for 1996 and 5.2 billion for 1997, this comparison also shows that society has a high level of solidarity with the 170 000 people in agriculture and forestry. Another point, namely the measures I have referred to in the field of labour market policy, also includes the agricultural employment fund, an institution which is co-financed and supported by the Social Fund, social funds. The above-mentioned Work Foundation seeks to promote additional skills for people in agriculture and forestry. The Foundation is open to farm owners in the family association for more than 18 years who are threatened by their economic existence. This example also shows clearly the acceptance and high social solidarity with agriculture and forestry. Both our social conscience, ladies and gentlemen, as well as solidarity with agriculture and people in agriculture, let us agree with and support these measures. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This social solidarity is also mentioned in the above-mentioned lecture and in the working paper of Prof. Schneider. However, in addition to social solidarity, further development and structural adjustment will require internal solidarity, internal understanding and acceptance. On the basis of the figures and figures I have mentioned to you, ladies and gentlemen, it is hard to see that the tolerance limit of this social solidarity will soon be reached. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It will therefore be necessary to address the internal solidarity I have already mentioned and to put it into practice. But before I go into it, let me mention a point on structural adjustment, because this point, which is also part of the agricultural structure, is important and should not be mentioned in the discussion of structural adjustment. Federal Minister! You have raised one of these points when you take office. You said you'd bring the cooperatives "to the front man." At the time when you said this, you were given support from our group, my group. Now, when I look at the issue of milk delivery in Vienna, which has been dealt with particularly extensively in the media in the last few days – in the "Kurier" of yesterday, above all, the comment of Reinhard Göweil, where it says: "Fresh: The name alone is a naughtiness, and if you know the background and the connections, you have to find that there is still too little "to the front" in this area. I offer you once again, Mr Federal Minister, after I have met you as a target-oriented person, the support of my group today, and I would ask you to accept it. Perhaps we can work together to bring this cooperative structure "to the forerman" and thereby implement a structural change in agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a stock company!]] And who are the shareholders, Mr. Schwarzenberger? There is another structural change, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to address briefly. This is because in Austria, in a highly socialised country, in a state with a distinct social system, we are still on the way to raising low-cost products or products from the low-priced sector on the market. I believe that my group is of the opinion that we should leave this low-price segment to others, and that we should focus much more on selling high-quality products, selling, marketing and bringing them to the man. I am not alone with this opinion either, because our former Minister of Agriculture and current Commissioner for Agriculture confirms this in an interview in the "Cash", No. 4/96, under the title "Unser Feinkosmann in Brussels". In this article, he said that more can be done from the Austrian raw material than only average European articles. I agree with Franz Fischler. In the field of organic farming, where we have a pioneering role, there is still much to do to develop and enforce this fine food shop in Austria. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and let me once again address this inner solidarity, which has now been reflected in the Coalition Agreement in the Agriculture and Forestry chapter. This internal solidarity also means a socially just redistribution in the agricultural sector for me. It is for me a socially just distribution policy of promotions. We as political leaders have been able, through the preparatory work in your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister, through a study of the Bundesanstalt für Miningernfragen and by explanations from your department, as well as the Wifo, to discuss it on the basis of a concrete basis and to look at these changes in detail. I would just say that it would be necessary to hold this discussion on a broad basis. To this end, Mr Federal Minister, this extensive work and this report, as well as this study, would have to be carried out by a wider public. That is why I would ask you, because in the context of this internal solidarity, I believe, we should be able to appeal to and rely not only on feelings but also on these scientific works. Another point on internal solidarity. ==References====External links== April can be seen – and I quote here for the field of "supervisory councils": "Relatively constant, the agricultural market Austria (AMA) spoils its control bodies. ==References====External links== In July 1993, each of the 16 Supervisory Boards already filed 102 000 pp. for this year, and in 1994 it was 220 000 S. It does not include the cost of almost 390 000 S for the supervision of the State." If I look at the comparison table and see that compared to these 102 000 S and 220 000 S respectively for 1993 and 1994, VÖEST-ALPINE Stahl AG has granted its supervisory boards per member 29 000 S for 1993 and 21 000 S for 1994, I must say that is relatively thin. I think I have also found a point where internal solidarity can be exercised. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of this social solidarity and solidarity with the peasantry, we Social Democrats will also give our support to this structural adjustment, including this budget. However, we will continue to strive to discuss with you constructively our principles, our guidelines for new products, with a view to a structural change in agriculture. We invite you to present this constructive discussion from 27th. Pick up with us on April!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42477	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42499	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After the two symbolic cattle have been removed from the house, which is safe in opposition... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're still here!]] – I didn't mean the human "rinders" now. You're all here – as you say, Mr. Khol! I don't know who you meant. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There are no human cattle!]] I have once learned that everything is animal in man, but not all human in the animal. But that's not what it's all about now. Mr President, these symbols violate the dignity of the House. That is to be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate, of course, also concerns the dignity of the animals and, in particular, the dignity of the bark. That is why we have brought these two masks into the house so that we can know exactly what is being talked about. Ladies and gentlemen! The insanity that happened in the agricultural industry has actually been a human insanity. It is located in greed, in which hybrids of people who have believed, everything is feasible – also in agricultural technology. Only then did that disease follow, which affects very, very many farmers in Europe, especially in the UK. We talked about solidarity last time, Mr Reichhold. I'm not going to be so upset anymore. I am always very sensitive to this issue. With this shared human dignity and shared solidarity, I have my problems. We will all be Europeans, Mr Reichhold, even if we ensure that our farmers have the opportunity to survive, not only to survive, but that they can lead a life in dignity and with a decent income. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually thought today, I'm changing my role once. What would I do if I were a good, hard-working EIA agricultural politician? – I tell you: I would have picked out an article from the "Frankfurter Rundschau" and proudly presented it here. I know you never took me. Sometimes there are historical coincidences that are a happiness! "Frankfurter Rundschau": In agriculture hundreds of thousands of jobs are broken. The end of the farmer's death is essentially a question of political will – this is what the "Frankfurt Rundschau" writes about the German agricultural policy – as the example of Austria shows: There, organic farming has been supported politically far more for about four years than in Germany. Result: There already 12 percent of farmers work ecologically, with us in Germany only one percent. Ladies and gentlemen! As Austrian politicians, we could be proud of it – and we should be it too! [[Abg. Friend: Now you can no longer criticize us!]] But, Mr Schwarzenberger: Some things look very different from abroad. We also often praise some Danish tax models and any Swiss models and any Swedish models. And somewhere in France or somewhere in America there is a wonderful city, where ecology is enforced to the last detail. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But you have to acknowledge our efforts!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Let us assume that you are also making efforts and that you are also acting in the interests of the Austrian farmers. [[Abg. Friend: That's it! You don't need to "accept" that!]] If such a thing is to be taken seriously in a German newspaper, Mr Franz Alt has written it, then we should use this momentum, this impression, these possibilities even more offensively, Mr Schwarzenberger. We should try to promote the initiatives of our organic farming – if Austria is already a leader in organic farming. I'm always deeply touched when these catastrophic phenomena occur like those of cattle insanity. It is very remarkable that now, especially those farmers, those organizations, those groups that are pioneers, are doing the things you have not allowed by the ÖVP long, long here in the house, which you have partly also fought and made difficult, so that these groups, these organizations now suddenly become protected islands that you have fled to so that you can show: Austria is quite different! Suddenly, it says: In Austria, the agricultural policy is quite different! There's no such thing here. We have organic farming here. Then stand in front of the cameras – like yesterday's Mrs Krammer and Mr Molterer at this event at the tomb – and can proudly point out that many things are different in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. But they should also do everything they can to ensure that these organisations, these efforts, these initiatives can continue to grow and continue to develop! But if you look at the budget, you have to ask: What did you do? – The chambers have for decades – although in good faith, but still – been deluded in large areas. – The twilight knows exactly! The black goat knows exactly! The Schwarzenberger also knows, the Reichhold also! They all know how long the chambers have misadvised the farmers in Austria, perhaps in the good faith, that is the best. - Because of me. - Gifted! [[Abg. Zweytick: Today we know it's different!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] Mr Zweytick, give me that! An error is permitted – also in politics. Mr. Zweytick, it's okay. But the chambers are highly doped and paid high and from all EU funding pots, where it is only possible to pile up with millions so that they can establish themselves again – now in a new situation. These are the institutions that for decades have given wrong advice – not all, but many, too many, unfortunately. [[Discouragement of the liberties]] But with those organisations that have now been developing, which have been properly advised for decades, those bio-organisations who have tried to enter new land in this area, who have tried to develop new marketing opportunities which have tried to develop new things in a market that has been fighting and is to develop new things, the funds are now being reduced again, Mr Zweytick. And that's a problem. But let us look at how you otherwise support these initiatives. There is a draft for a new hygiene regulation – as far as I know, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture is opposed – in which the notions of hygiene are inside, which are extremely tailored to the situation where there is mass animal husbandry, mass slaughters and mass organisations. [[Abg. Friend: There is no mass animal husbandry in Austria!]] But, even in Austria, there is that, but admittedly less than in Germany – much less than in Germany. But these new provisions would again hinder those associations and those companies that want to go new ways. There are demands for things that are simply not feasible without a huge financial commitment. Drifting with it You many small farmers and self-marketers return to a debt mountain that you cannot answer. That is why I hope – and I know that the Presidential Conference has said: We are not going along with this draft regulation! . that you will then go along with our motion for a resolution on this subject. For it is not to be seen that the small-structured areas are to be again disadvantaged, on the contrary, those areas that have never contributed to disease: It was possible to intervene quickly and efficiently, because no mass diseases have occurred. In the small-structured area, if the veterinary care is good, I can intervene immediately without causing huge damage. Mr Schwarzenberger, you know very well: In a stable with more than a hundred pigs, the infection pressure increases. There's the big disease problem. If an animal gets sick, then you have to supply the entire herd, all the farm with medication. You know that! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I only have a Sau at home! That's the best waste recovery!]] [[Further calls and general hustle and bustle.]] Yeah, if you only have a sow at home, you won't. But please, Mr Schwarzenberger, it is about what is happening in Austrian agriculture, not how many pigs you have at home. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mrs. Aumayr! I didn't hear that! Mr Schwarzenberger! I would ask you to make a common alliance here in the House and to decide on this request. As far as I know, the SPÖ is for that too. The liberals and the liberals have already supported this. It is not possible, on the one hand, to constantly describe the small-structured agriculture, the self-marketing, the new ways of praising and describing, but then to make quite a different decision, Mr Molterer. I can't! Let's see what happens in connection with the public transport. Mr Reichhold has already mentioned this. – Mr Schwarzböck! Is it still about whether he has a pig or two pigs? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It's about something else, I think. It's probably something dramatic. Mr Schwarzböck! Why is a government and the government parties are unable to see how important it would be to go the way of ecologisation: Yes! It is precisely because of the terrible example in Great Britain that we have to go new ways! – Why are they not in a position to provide additional resources from the budget so that all those who now want to "let themselves" into the ecological measures in the agricultural sector can also report on this? – They – I don’t know if this is legally covered at all – issue the slogan internally, so to speak, so to speak, that they can no longer participate in the ÖPUL programme. Last time I heard the accusation – I think Mr Schüssel said this – that the FPÖ should have told their farmers: "Don't go with me. You don't get the money anyway!" – Even if that were so, this is totally irrelevant in the present situation. It is a question of enabling all Austrian farmers to participate in the ecologicalisation programme. And now I'm telling you: If you save there, you are wasting Austrian resources to an extent that can be much larger than anything else, because you miss a necessary step! What Mr Gradwelt referred to here as the "tolerance limit for solidarity with farmers" is a very dangerous position. For, Mr Grad well, it is necessary for government policy to move ahead with the consensus of all parties in Austria on ecologisation. In this case, real saving means spending money on ecology. This saves us environmental damage from tomorrow, which saves us unemployment from tomorrow, which saves us drinking water damage from tomorrow and that saves us animal diseases from tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also made a request so that all farmers who want to participate in the ÖPUL programme today or tomorrow can also participate. I think that what you are planning is a completely wrong way, Minister. That's not reasonable. You might also say: The farmers were too stupid, they made formal mistakes – all possible. But how many times have the authorities been wrong in the agricultural question, in the agricultural question? I ask you to take a clear step in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tremendous opportunities in connection with the provision of energy by agriculture. I didn't read the article completely to you. The article also contains a wonderful quote: The farmers will not be the last of yesterday's agricultural policy, but the oil sheikh of tomorrow. I think it's a little overshadowed. I do not want the farmers in our country to be the 'oilsheds'. But I would like farmers to become energy producers in the future, and to give them the opportunity to produce energy with nature. I don't mean crazy projects like this big oil mill. The Court of Auditors has written in detail what a stupidity that was. We talked for a long time and in detail about the economic nonsense of this project. Small projects like that in Mureck would we need to hundreds in Austria, to thousands. [[Abg. Zweytick: Come on! Come on!]] They say: Come on, come on! – But why are we first putting millions and hundreds of millions into a huge oil mill where we have transport costs, where money is suffocating, and where the Court of Auditors is rightly talking about massive waste? Mr. Zweytick! Yes, the ÖVP also has the right to be wrong. But to be wrong twice in the same thing is stupidity and stupidity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister for Agriculture! If you support what we have – I hope, not only mistakenly – is confirmed by the "Frankfurt Rundschau" that Austria has been going a new way for four years, if that is to become reality in all areas, then I do not understand why you have still been in favour of the approval of the fertilizers; then I do not understand that you have still been in favour of the approval of plant protection products; then I do not understand that in your new draft, which you are now negotiating with the Minister of Health and the Minister for the Environment on the authorisation of plant protection products, you are obviously going to allow old poisons again; then I do not understand that you do not want to introduce a plant protection product levy; then I do not understand that you are no longer allowing the OPUL programme for all those who want to re-enter. If you want to continue the path of ecologisation consistently, you need to progress towards the areas you constantly praise when crises break out when diseases break out if, for example, a discussion about salmonellas or other diseases in the food sector takes place in public, for example, you need to improve the marketing in the ecological field; then you also need to introduce the eco-tax consistently. – Because what is happening now – we all know that – is a wonderful area of attack for those who have nothing to do with an eco tax and, of course, rightly criticize that you only use it to stop budget holes. In this way you discredit a wonderful instrument of market regulation. In addition, you will of course also have to introduce a plant protection product tax; then you will need to promote research and teaching in this area; then you will have to make the product declaration more quickly, and not allow the greens and the other opposition to disappear and paralyze in the drawers; then you will have to clearly formulate the agricultural model in the future. You are still caught in your conflict of interest between conventional agriculture and organic agriculture. You still serve two gentlemen. That's a problem, and you have to fight with it. But if you know the direction in which the agricultural policy should go, there can be no doubt. Does "solidity with conventional farmers" mean that they can ecologize? – The borders have not yet been reached, Mr Gradwelt! The limits of your imagination may be reached, but not the limits of the possibilities we have in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to go the way of ecologisation, you must also make a federal uniform animal welfare law – and that is something that the animal protectionists have impressively demonstrated with their many signatures. All the products produced by the farmers ultimately come to the consumers, and consumers must say and agree to these products. Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture can still be lucky today that the balance sheets are so positive at least in 1995 – if you quote Schneider. In 1996, it will then look a little tighter, and then you will lose over four billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen, because of the degressive compensation payments. And then in 1997 it goes down again, to 27 billion schilling as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! Then you will have to explain where the limit – as Mr Gradwelt says so beautifully – is the tolerance limit of social solidarity. I say it again: To save is to waste the most important resources we have in this country: This is our nature, that is our environment, and of course these are the people who work there. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me lose a few sentences on the problem of BSE, which I have been so excited about lately. I have read something about a statement by Mr Franz Fischler in the Vienna newspaper. I don't know if that's a mistake. I personally think this message can't be correct. The Commissioner for Agriculture Fischler, according to his own statement, has no concern about the consumption of British beef. It is still his favorite meat, he says in his hometown Absam in Tirol. He sees no medical reason to abandon the consumption of beef in England! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot judge whether this actually corresponds to the truth. I do not assume that the "Vienna newspaper" is a tearful leaf. If that is what the Commissioner has said, what is the import barrier? What are the measures to be taken against the United Kingdom? Imagine that we have a disease in Austria, we would be plagued with export bans, and the Commissioner would say that he has no concern at all that it is his favorite product he eats constantly in Austria. Of course, we would go to the European Court of Justice and invite the fisherman as the chief witness. Obviously, a scandal has happened in a head or in a editor. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a news that's incredible. I do not know how far you are informed, Minister Molterer, but that cannot be. Let's assume that fishers are right, and it only determines hysteria about export and import bans. Then I prefer the bans on the import and export of the liberals. I know why they say it. But if it is only irrationality, how the international agricultural policy reacts, if it is only more national lobbyism of the Americans, the Germans, the French, the Austrians, then I only say that the agricultural policy has 'decided'. I hope that this is a scandal in the editorial work and in the transmission and not a scandal in the head of the Austrian agricultural Commissioner Fischler. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that our proposals, which I still have to put forward, will find a majority – a modest wish in the Middle East. Our first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as I know, this corresponds roughly to the text of the statement of the Presidential Conference. Mr Schwarzböck, Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Zweytick, I therefore assume that you can agree. I come to our next request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the third request in connection with a uniform federal regime of product declarations of agricultural products. – Minister of State! You know that we made the request years ago. We have introduced it in 1995 and it has even been negotiated, it has then been postponed and given to the subcommittee, and now I know that there are colleagues from the Socialist Group, among them I believe a relatively new one who is committed to it, and I also know that many of the EIAs would like to vote in favour of it. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I heard Mrs. Krammer speak on the marketplace yesterday. She has gone past the clear product declaration there again. She was very evocative: We want to mark the positive. We write on an egg: "Out of outdoor farming", but please, we don't write anything on it if it comes from a cagery. In beef we may write all the good stuff on it: That the bovine has walked around before on the alm, best feeding, best attitude, best care. But with the products that come from the agricultural industry, we would rather not write anything about it. That is what consumers know 'oh', because then, if there is nothing on it, it is a product from the agricultural industry. I do not know who is still sharing this logic in this House, but this logic is of course a cross, because we know very well that there are many small producers who do not have the opportunity to build a brand that does not have the possibility of doing so consistently and so clearly in the packaging. But that would help if we were to provide for a federal uniform declaration obligation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42790	The three motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Wabl are under negotiation. The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e42815	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the agricultural budget for 1996 and 1997 is a good reason to make a first, very realistic analysis from my point of view of the experience of Austrian agriculture, farmers, the processing industry, over this 16 months of membership of the European Union. I attach importance to the finding that it is a realistic picture because no one is serving either to break out in joy or to make in pessimism, because we simply need this realistic image to take the right steps. This first year of membership has shown us that we have some weaknesses, for example in the area of processing structure, weaknesses in market positions abroad, which we have to eliminate step by step. But it has also shown that we have essential strengths. For example, strengths – and I am very grateful that the farmers are responding to this challenge – not only by the fact that the conversion of funding has been exemplary in a very short period of time, but also by the fact that farmers, in the field of market offensives, additional innovations and pilot projects, did not, as many have suspected, put their hands in the lap, but have been very active in addressing this challenge. Secondly, it is becoming increasingly clear – and I am also grateful for this – that, because of this basic orientation of Austrian agriculture, the Austrian agricultural policy, namely this ecological orientation of production of this unmistakable production, also in the sense of our strengths, our strengths as Austria, has succeeded in building on these strengths together with the tourism industry, together with environmental policy, and not in making mistakes that some have made, for example, not to do everything that could be done, which would be technically feasible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wabl! We have for many years been more shocked by the fact that we have not done everything that is technically feasible. But that turned out to be the right thing to do. I am glad that we have always followed this path consistently. It is sad – and I say so very openly – that the accuracy of this path has been confirmed by dramatic events: I would have preferred to have been able to prove this without these really dramatic events, which I have yet to speak to. However, I would like to point out that, from the perspective of agriculture, this path of clear distinction, this way of independent positioning in the strategy of Austrian politics, in which strategy on the market will prove to be correct, and that this path will be of all parties involved – I emphasize: of all! – it is necessary to proceed consistently, even if some additional change is necessary. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These budgets for 1996/97 – and I am of course referring to some of the critical comments – also take account of this basic orientation, which I outlined earlier and in which farmers participate very actively and very offensively. This budget is marked by the Europe Agreement, which was concluded in 1994 and 1995. This Europe Convention was and is the guideline for budgeting. However, I also say quite frankly that this Europe Agreement contains both sides of industry: on the one hand, the commitment of the policy to keep the Europe Agreement also in the teaching and financing process, on the other hand, quite clearly the obligation that we should be able to achieve it for these four years with the means laid down in the Europe Agreement. This Europe Convention was also the basis of the accession negotiations and ultimately the basis of the federal negotiations. I am therefore also saying very openly: I am not pleased with the need to stop the entry, the one of me – of me, I say! – is announced and worn. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the case that the Chambers of Agriculture have invented this, but the Chambers of Agriculture are acting on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But do it!]] I would also like to tell you why. We have a budget which is intended to spend 7.4 billion ECU on the environmental programme this year. This is the amount that farmers thank God because of the high participation last year for the environmental programme. In addition, in the budget alone on the federal side, we have a loan authorisation of 600 million schilling for the environmental programme, but we have this credit authorisation at the expense of Chapter 60. As a Minister of Agriculture, I am aware that I have these budgetary negotiations and, of course, I am also responsible for them. Ladies and gentlemen! It would not be right if we did not think about what the use of the credit authority would mean. . We would therefore have to make cuts in the area of 5b funding, in the area of producer communities, in the field of investment support, in the field of multiplicity of project funding. That is why I am in favour of this – and I am wearing it – that it is now more appropriate to make this breathing break so that we can look at the overall development – also in connection with the evaluation, also in connection with the negotiations with the European Union, with the aim of obtaining additional funds for the environmental programme. Mr Wabl! We have deliberately not had this entry stop in the organic farming sector because I am right to give you that this signal would have been a wrong one. I do not want to say that we have to work together to develop a further procedure by which a stop to entry is not necessary in the future; but now I am in favour because everything else would have been at the expense of more investment and forward-looking projects. I couldn't have done that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Allow me also a sentence on various announcements, leaflets and so on. I believe that it is fairer and cleaner to tell the farmers now how the Ministry of Agriculture is doing than to do as if there were no problems, then sometime in the autumn to go out with the truth. I prefer it, and that is my style, always to say what is necessary, even if it is unpleasant, even if there is quite criticism – and that there is criticism, I know! Ladies and gentlemen! Second major issue: BSE. I would ask that we deal with this issue with the necessary care. It is a difficult situation and I understand that consumers are sensitive. We must therefore step-by-step take the right measures which we have also imposed in the European Union, for example, with the export ban, or also with additional measures that are necessary in Austria, such as the development of the rules of origin and labelling, because they require the consumer. Mr Firlinger! I would just like to say a few words on the subject raised by you. I also ask for the necessary sensitivity. I would just like to call you an unwarranted witness, so that it is clear how we should deal with the problem. Prof. Lötsch, who is a well-known critical person, says on the principle of animal meal feeding: "This corresponds – literally – to the ecological principle that feed is produced from slaughterhouse waste." I tell you very clearly what we have done: In the European Union, we have committed ourselves to prohibit the feeding of slaughterhouse waste to ruminants, we have increased the standard of production across the EU to the highest possible standards – which we have had for decades – and we have achieved that there is an EU-wide mandatory labelling of the prohibition of feeding to ruminants. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But not for cattle!]] I would ask that we take the necessary care here. If, for example, there are the problems that have been suggested by you, I do not think that we are correcting this. But I ask, not by blind activism, those principles, the They always hold them so high to endanger themselves, and we should have a serious debate and debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I may be able to address some questions before I come to the conclusion, from my point of view, for a moment. Mr Reichhold! Of course I am in favour of further developing the AMA seal, but please also keep the necessary perspective here. As a practical farmer, you should know very well that, for example, it is not possible at present to feed 100 percent of Austrian feed production, for example, because we have a protein gap. It would be completely wrong to link the animal flour problem with protein feeding now – for example, soy... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then why did you laugh when I said that?]] You need to know that as a practicing farmer! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have to listen, Hias, then you understand!]] A second one: There are efforts in the AMA to increase, for example, this value-determining share in processing goods, for example by saying: value-setting proportion in fresh meat, in the meat share from Austria. I think this discussion is necessary – I will give you the right thing – but I also ask you not to throw everything into a pot. Or, for example, the question: Of course, the decentralised coverage of the agricultural chambers will bring relief in other areas, because, for example, the agricultural market in Austria no longer has the expenses for the gymnasiums, which have been spent in the 1995 budget. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 150 million! Where's the budget?]] Mr Reichhold! To the point: There's a PR office. If you know – and I assume – the business classification of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been in force for a long time, you know that there is a department in the "public relations" department. The fact that there is not so much money available to employees in this budget as in the previous year may only be a contribution to spreading your concerns to which you, I know, do not really believe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] On Mr Gradwelt's comments: Mr President, I am very much in favour of holding this discussion on the basis of the agreement on employment, but I would ask you to make it clear. Their choice of words, that the tolerance line should reach the border, and that the solidarity of the peasants should have been very elegant. Tell me more clearly what's behind it. This essentially means that no additional resources are available for agriculture and should be redistributed within agriculture – is that true? [[Abg. Gradwell: Yes!]] Well, then we have this discussion, we have it very openly and - I have always said this in the Committee - we lead it so that we can assess the effects and objectives of agricultural policy, namely the ecological, the economic, the question of distribution effects and, ultimately, the question of regional and structural effects. I ask for more linguistic clarity, which is meant, because then we are making it easier in the debate. [[Abg. Gradwell: You understood!]] Well, then I'm an interpreter, as it's so beautiful, a translator of what you really meant. But I think it's fair to say what's really meant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do you know who helped me with the translation on the jumps? – Member of the Koppler, who gave his first applause. Since Koppler applauded, I knew what was really meant. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Two more sentences. Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank AMA Administrative Council damages have been due since 1. January 1995 7 500 pp. They have been reduced by half compared to the year before – that is why it has already been implemented. On the question of management and management errors: I have clearly deposited my attitude on milk problems. This is irresponsible and a sharp misdevelopment in the company concerned. I do not take responsibility for mismanagement of companies on myself, Mr Gradwelt, and I assume that you do not, or I would have to raise the question of your responsibility in the "consumer". Mr Gradwelt! Let us see that this is changing rapidly in the interests of consumers and that the necessary consequences are being met. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: With these two budgets we have clearly defined the objectives of agricultural policy and agricultural policy in Europe on the basis of the German Federal Government's Convention on Labour. From my point of view, the objective is absolutely clear: It must be an ecologically oriented agriculture, which, Mr Wabl, I say again and again as ceterum censeo on your ceterum censeo, has appropriate opportunities in the market, because I am convinced that it is better for farmers in the long term to achieve as high a share of income as possible over the market than to discuss exclusively the development of support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, that we need additional efforts with many projects, with many pilot projects, that we need more coordination and communication with consumers, is correct. That we are going this way consistently, I ask everyone. The position of Austria in Europe is also clear: We want agriculture to develop in this direction in Europe as a whole. That is why we have clearly represented the ban on hormones, which is why we have clearly expressed our views on animal drugs and reached decisions, for example in the BSE question, we have fought in a very massive way to ensure that radical measures are finally put in place. I can also say from this point of view: Without this European Union, there would not have been this radicality of the measures. The British Government has been forced to do so. This is another evidence that the European Union is capable of action in a critical situation and sets out measures which are not in the exclusive scope of a national state. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do our farmers have of it?]] I also recognise that there is solidarity in financing, Mr Reichhold. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What do our farmers have of it?]] That is why, as you know very well, the Council of Agriculture Ministers' decision, among other things, says that there will be solidarity by the Commission for those producers who work in countries where there is no BSE. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: When?]] We expect these proposals to be presented by the Commission within the framework of the price package. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will make great use of these opportunities of the European Union. We will present a memorandum for the further development of mining policy in Europe as a whole, which corresponds to our ideas. We will present our objectives of further development, and we will make better use of the measures that the European Union allows us to achieve. It is a pleasure to be able to tell you that yesterday the first allocation meeting of funds under the sectoral plan took place. 19 concrete investment projects receive support in the processing industry. This will trigger an investment volume of around one billion schillings, in enterprises with 1,500 people employed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If we talk about such measures, which we are implementing step by step, we are not making problems that are admittedly present even bigger, and above all, Mr Reichhold, we are not creating artificial ones. Through artificial problem creation, we do not give young farmers the prospects they need, but only through concrete steps and projects. – This is my policy, which differs from yours clearly!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43059	I now give the floor to Mr Schwarzböck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43080	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentaryism lives from different viewpoints. If this succeeds at a high rhetorical level with material orientation and in an appealing political culture, then we are talking about star hours of parliamentarianism. These star-hours of parliamentarianism often live on opposites and differing positions. As a practical farmer, a member of this House and a representative of interests, I have experienced a personal political star hour in the last few minutes. To be able to listen to a minister who, in times of extremely high demands of national responsibilities, but also of such competence as international responsibilities, not only from the point of view of agriculture, but also for society as a whole, sympathetically convincing and yet with great emphasis the position of his government responsibility, but also the situation of the Austrian peasantry, makes it a pleasure to be politically active here in times of agreement – even if it is in agreement with a group colleague. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural policy debate, the agricultural tension field of the past decades, was also marked by a topic in Austria, namely: Are we going the path of agro-industrial development, or are we going the opposite way, a path of Austrian farming? About ten years ago, it was formulated by then Minister of Agriculture Riegler – politically not only for Austria, but internationally – in the concept of eco-social agricultural policy and was basically made a programme for Austria's agricultural policy in a larger international context. The question is always focused on: Are basic principles of industrial and technical feasibility transferable to work in and with nature? – The positioning of the Austrian agricultural policy was clear in this decades of tension: It was a decisive positioning for farmers, and with the manifesto of the eco-social agricultural policy in the present day it is an even clearer positioning for farmers. We are currently experiencing dramatic developments in agriculture and the food industry, and the Minister has just presented his personal point of view. What can actually satisfy us with satisfaction in all the dramatic aspects of the problems that arise today on a daily basis is that in our course, in our foundations, we have been confirmed internationally impressively in our guidelines. That is why we will do everything we can to continue this line consistently. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands, tens of thousands of Austrian peasant families are not economically shaken by the effects of the BSE scandal for decades. Especially those who have their focus in cattle production currently have not only economic but also in the question of self-definition, finding the answer to the question: What are our tasks, how are they rewarded? It's hard. They not only have to survive economically incredibly difficult weeks and months, but also in their own positioning, without which it is not possible to be successful or find fulfillment. But all these difficulties should not leave us with the view that we basically have an excellent starting position in the medium and long term for the way in which we want to operate agriculture, supported by a high recognition of the non-agricultural population. These developments will mean that our course will be strengthened internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore – I really only have a few minutes of speaking time at my disposal today – I would like to extend an invitation to you: It is in the nature of the political matter that you do not come out here to praise, but you also recognize this historic opportunity that we have internationally: what the Austrian agricultural policy, the Austrian peasantry, now characterizes, strengthens, and does not, though unconsciously, undermine. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Axle.]] Mr Firlinger! Animal meal can be addressed differently. But what sets us off internationally on this issue is that we have also taken an extremely demanding path internationally. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: But you have to mark it!]] The fact that we will continue to work there and feel strengthened is not at all to be disputed and not to be debated. This would have to be one thing for us across all political groups. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Allow me also to say the following: When you put your three sackerln here in your activism, it was – read your speech through – to hear out: But I might have found something! And this statement takes us, when we have the discussion, considerable possibilities for positioning. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Do you want to keep it to yourself?]] Not dead at all, but it's about what you can hear between the lines. Ladies and gentlemen! An accusation that has been going on for several days in various debates is: In this budget, which is marked by savings, you will find a post after which the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture will receive 20 million schilling of federal funds. Dr. Haider said a few days ago: Farmers are forced to save and the equipment is bloated! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's right!]] You should only have bothered yourself once to ask! You have asked a small modest question in the Committee, but you have completely ignored the answer. You keep working as if you'd never got an information. I'm telling you what the 20 million are for: EU membership and the change in the East have led to an enormous internationalisation of Austria and also of Austrian politics. [[Call the ÖVP: They don't know yet!]] In the preparation of the EU and in the EU negotiations, the Federal Government has given great importance to the involvement of the social partners in their competence and partnership. We are now being asked to bring our social partnership findings to Brussels day and night. There are developmental needs there. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: President Schwarzböck! Give me suggestions for savings!]] We are encouraged by the Eastern neighbouring countries to bring in our social partnership experiences. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Get into the tax bags and take 20 million! It's a self-service store!]] On Tuesday, the Commission President of the EU Santer was in Vienna, and we social partners were able to talk to him for almost an hour and handed him the Social Partners' Memorandum to the Intergovernmental Conference. Do you know what President Santer said? . He said he knew the basic guidelines and the successes of the Austrian social partners in some way and was pleased that there was cooperation between large stakeholders and the government to solve problems together. [[Call to the liberals:Only the farmers stay on the road!]] Do you know what you can measure the fascination of the Austrian path and success? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Where do you make savings in your chamber?]] That is to say, President Santer said: In an important country in Europe, he has put emphasis on such a conversation. And he took months to realize that the representative of the industry and the trade union president was talking to him there. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: President Schwarzböck! Call me savings you're doing in your chamber! The budget is not a self-service store!]] Do you not feel what we can export, and do you not understand that it is quite appropriate to allow this to be subsidized by public means if you want to do so? Subsidy for social partners exports is a well-designed investment for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: President Schwarzböck! Where do you save in the chamber? Give me a few suggestions for savings!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying, although I believe that you will understand, in view of the course of today's debate, that there is a lot to say, and I would like to make a very clear statement: What gives us tremendous encouragement is the fact that, unlike, for example, British colleagues, at a time when we have problems with cattle madness, thank God neither our guidelines nor our agricultural policy world view must change. On the contrary, we are even strengthened by the fact that, in view of these crises, it is possible to continue our decades of clear positioning of farmers. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Axle.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: 10,000 farmers less, that is not a success!]] Go She's with you! You too have a better starting point for your party policy activities on a success path in Austria than if you hope to be able to achieve your party political successes when it goes down with Austria! An opposition must also be interested in the fact that this country has a successful future course.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43299	I call Mr Wenitsch. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43326	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to refer to the comments made by my predecessor, Mr Schwarzböck. Mr President, Mr Schwarzböck! In my opinion, what you've done here was beautiful dyeing. You know very well that the picture of the future is terrifying for the Austrian farmers. This can be seen from the "agricultural support service" of Minister Molterer, i.e. a report from the Federal Ministry. You just need to look at how fast the cover contributions are sinking. In 1999 we will probably no longer have a farmer who will be able to live on his farm. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP:The AMA payments are still coming to the cover contributions!]] Including direct payments, dear friend! These are cover contributions, but you don't understand. – The Broomkammerl would be right for you and not for me, I think. Mr Schwarzböck! You've missed something. You didn't tell us what concrete savings you have in your camera. There has been no answer from you to this question. You are talking about a political view of the world – please, the farmers have nothing to do with your political outlook! Farmers are suffering loss of income from 30 to 40 percent, and these will not pay the farmers! These farmers need not a political view of the world, but money, a compensation for the loss they have suffered! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My reigns! I've already cut it: The income in agriculture is rapidly declining. According to the "Agricultural Funding Service" of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture – that's not mine – the coverage amounts to... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: We don't hide anything!]] They say: We're not hiding anything. However, it is terrifying, Minister Molterer, that you are talking about an euphoria that farmers should have for the future. I got the numbers black on white here. I can only remind you of this: The cover contribution in quality wheat fell – please be careful! – from 11 000 S in 1994 to 3 800 pp. Do you know what this means, Mr Minister? And then you're talking about a farmer's future income over the market or about the price of his products?- Oh, my God! That's impossible! Look This applies not only to today, but also to the next three, four years, in this case until the end of 1999. How should he obtain his income via the market? – The farmers can't, that's impossible, the farmer can't do that. The coverage contribution for soybeans fell from 9 800 S to 3 600 S, the cover contribution for the sunflowers from 9 200 S to 2 600 S per hectare. Please, how should a farmer achieve something on the market, achieve income? - That's impossible, that's not possible. There should be a fundamental reform of the agricultural policy. We liberals will present you with a model of how you can change that. The agricultural policy needs a reform! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also have practical examples here – yes, they are coming, let yourself time! – for example, the beet bill of this year. [[Abg. Friend: Suggestions!]] I have to tell you one thing: With the same sugar values, the beet price fell by about 10 percent compared to last year. This is the market, Minister! And on such a market, should a farmer achieve his income if the beet price falls by 10 percent? – I can remind you: There is no support for the cultivation of sugar beet, for which there is no promotion, that is the pure market price, and it has fallen by 10 percent within a year, and that is terrifying. I have other examples of cereals. You mentioned a cover contribution here. I can tell you the nude numbers: Before accession to the EU, an average yield of 5 000 kilograms of quality wheat could be obtained in about 21,000 s of raw fruit. Do you know what the situation is now? – The possible raw yield has dropped from 21,000 S to 8 500 S. That's incredible! And you're talking about a market price for farmers? [[Abg. Aumayr: This is cynical!]] Then I would like to say something to you because you are always talking about solidarity. I found a nice writing in the "Kronen-Zeitung" today. I think that will have been seen by some ladies and gentlemen here. It is very important to note what is being said here. Minister! This is a communication from the Federal Government. You are therefore responsible for this communication, because you are in this Federal Government. You seem to have decided. There stands – and now you take good care, ladies and gentlemen –: [[The speaker shows the plenary a newspaper section]] For the first time in 50 years cheaper food. - What do you mean, why? I will give you the answer, Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What have you painted red?]] The answer is simple: Mass animal farming, abandoning ecology, which is the reason for the cheaper food. And the price decline of the farmers, at prices for their agricultural products, that is the second reason. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I hardly believe that consumers in Austria want to have this in the future. They want natural and healthy food. It doesn't matter if a kilo of flour costs 3,90 s or 6 s, because no one needs so much flour a month that he can't live with it. That is why I shall present the following ladies and gentlemen. [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a way of saying that the farmer would have a certain advantage and would be able to recover a certain part of his income over the market. However, if we in Austria suffer from such a competitive disadvantage to the other EU countries, it will be impossible for farmers to obtain income through the market. Mr Donabauer! They have addressed the problem of pensions before. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to remind you of one thing. I can show you a practical example: Pension contribution of a holding not exceeding 900 000 S Unit value per 31st January 1995; this is not yet the maximum basis, which is somewhat below. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Very close to the highest basis!]] The maximum basis is more than 100 000 S. That was a holding with a contribution of less than 900,000. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 930 000 is the highest basis!]] No, 980,000, but that doesn't matter at the moment. Look She is: 26 115 S per quarter – 31. January 1995. Minister Molterer, 31. January 1996: 27 420 S per quarter, resulting in an increase of more than 1,000 S, thus about 5 percent. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 4.3 percent!]] No, I'm not talking about the last increase. This is an increase, Mr Donabauer. This is the uncanny one. Minister Molterer! You tell me in committee that pension contributions will not be increased, you will be increased by up to 1 per cent. You have told me this is because the Federal Fund for the Farmers' Pension Insurance Agency has been reduced by 300 million Schilling this year by the Federal Government, and this requires an increase of almost 1 percent. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1 percent point! From 1.2 to 1.3 percent!]] Thus, from 1995 to 1996, a pension contribution increase was already made by 4.5 percent. For a reminder: 31. January 1996: 27 400 pp. ==References== April 1996, just three months later, my rulers, you have the unfrozenness and increase the pension contributions of the farmers once again by 4.3 percent to 28 600 p. colleague Schwarzenberger, I am speaking here for the farmers! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There is no such thing as the 31st. April 1996!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr Colleague! ==References== April will never be!]] Either 31 or 30. April, that's not the point. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My reigns! An increase of 4.35 percent within three months, that is indescribable! And that at a time – that is the truth, colleague Khol – where farmers' incomes are falling rapidly! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: With the "31. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) There you can only leave the hall without letup!]] For you, Mr. Khol, it would be best for you to come only on 1st. April in Parliament, that would be the most successful thing. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Minister! I would like to ask one question because we have referred to this PR activity before and because you are putting some of the AMA's public relations into the chambers this year. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: What?]] Excuse me, not in the chambers, but You said you cut part of your publicity from the budget. I'd like to know how much percent it represents? I would like an exact answer to how much the budget has been reduced and whether this is about in relation to the reduction of income among farmers. That would really interest me. The second question: They have transferred tasks from the AMA to the farmer's chambers. The chambers are supposed to get around 150 million schilling for this, as far as I'm informed. I would like to know whether, at the same time, the budget at AMA is also reduced by this 150 million schilling. That would really interest me. I'm expecting an answer. On the reform of agricultural policy: A fundamental reform is necessary! This has already been pointed out by Mr Wabl that it simply does not go on. Ladies and gentlemen! We expect agricultural policy to be put on three pillars in the future: First: Work security at the farm is a very important point. Jobs are getting less and less. We need to increase the support for the farm workplace. Secondly, An ecologization of agriculture would be to move forward without if and but. Thirdly, A release of the peasants from chamber constraints, from bureaucracy, from applications. This is the agricultural policy of the liberals, and we will present this model in the near future. I would like to invite you all to join us in this way – for the benefit of the farmers, for the benefit of Austrian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43603	Mr Achs has been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43624	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I did not expect anything from Mr Wenitsch but what he has done here. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] However, I would now like to tell Mr Wenitsch about a meeting I had with a farmer standing in his camp a few days ago. This farmer has a mixed farm, has also told me about his wine products and has told me very proudly that he now has the opportunity, where we are in the EU, to export wine to Germany. He said to me: You, I have to tell you one thing, it doesn't matter today whether I am about to abandon my product in Vienna or Salzburg or Munich. But one thing I must say already, this farmer continued to say, I also export to Switzerland, and at the last delivery I was imposed on a bottle of ice wine 40 S penalty customs. That's a sum I could have in the bag. I admit quite openly that I voted against joining the EU. I would have expected you, Mr Wenitsch, to say something about the wine, as you come from the wine district, but you did not. [[Abg. Aumayr: The wine maker is still coming!]] You are a Member of the Wine District! Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that, since accession to the EU, Austrian agriculture has been in a difficult transition phase. However, the doubling of agricultural expenditure since 1991 underlines the responsibility of the Federal Government towards the Austrian farmers. It expresses its commitment to a farm-structured agriculture. We Socialists acknowledge this because we are aware of the importance of agriculture for a healthy habitat. This is, of course, a special position for agriculture, and we should be aware of this if we are discussing the budget chapter on agriculture today. A functioning agriculture ensures us healthy food and a healthy environment. The Austrian farmers are aware of their responsibility for the environment and contribute to sustainable agriculture. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this benefit, which does not have a direct market value, is paid by the general public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must be aware that this healthy economy also costs something that organically oriented farms cannot cope with huge agricultural industries from costs and prices. Of course, as a member of the European Union, we have new framework conditions today. The implementation of the common agricultural policy requires new structures in the allocation of funds. In total, the agricultural budget will be reduced over the next few years by the loss of transitional payments. Nevertheless, we will be able to keep a level that allows us to promote sustainable economics efficiently. In the field of environmental promotion, the public sector, it is particularly important in the coming years to ensure first of all that funding is secured and second, that the funds are fairly distributed. Rurally structured agriculture can only be maintained if the funds are distributed fairly. It is not the agricultural industry, but only the large majority of agricultural holdings can meet the ecological demands. Environmental agriculture can only be implemented in accordance with rural structures. That is why we are Social Democrats for a fair and fair distribution of funds in favour of agricultural holdings in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to come back here to the unfortunate discussion in the autumn of the previous year. It is only my concern that the agricultural funds actually come where they belong, namely to our farmers. We Socialists therefore call for a policy of support for farm-structured agriculture. The funds from the agricultural budget must be used effectively. This is a flexible adaptation to changed conditions. I would also like to say a few basic words about the situation in agriculture. As mayor of one of the most important agricultural and wine-growing communities in Austria, I know very well about the mood currently in existence in the rural population. There is an uncertainty which is partly understandable, therefore, Mr Federal Minister, because there are no safe prospects and agriculture as a whole and in Europe is undergoing a strong change. The common agricultural policy of the European Union is facing a major reform if there is to be an enlargement to the east. Countries with an agricultural quota of 25 per cent would break the Union's agricultural budget. But even without Easter enlargement, profound reforms will be necessary. The further decline in agricultural prices makes it necessary to increase direct support. In addition, farmers' own initiative is needed to be able to stand on the market. It is clear that Austrian agriculture can hardly hold on to the market of mass products. A great opportunity is to find market niches. This requires innovation, but also an unconditional quality orientation. The chance for Austrian agriculture can only be in quality. Austrian products have to be removed by their characteristics and closeness to nature and comply with the ever-increasing ecological awareness of humans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Austrian agriculture there is economic efficiency in class and not in mass. At the wine market in particular, we see that quality brings success, so optimism in wine-growing is great. When we see the successes of Austrian wine abroad, we certainly have reason to do so. Countless international awards and awards are the result of the excellent quality work of the Austrian winegrowers. This opens up a great opportunity to expand our success in the quality segment. If we look at the high rate of increase in exports, we can see that development is positive. In addition, the fearsome large wine streams have survived from the south. It has therefore disappeared because the Austrian wine has international format. Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke at first of all about the importance of agriculture for a healthy habitat. I believe that the population has become more sensitive on this issue and appreciates the importance of Austrian agriculture. We Socialists acknowledge that agriculture can continue to fulfil its many tasks. The task of the general public is to ensure the quality of living space. The many benefits of the Austrian farmers must therefore continue to be paid off and a farm-structured agriculture ensured. In the light of these considerations, ladies and gentlemen, I say: Austrian agriculture has a future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43687	I would also like to say that the motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mr Wenitsch is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43711	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am not a true farmer, but a true consumer, contrary to what Mr Schwemmlein suspects. In this discussion, which is primarily determined by agricultural officials, it is also good to hear such a voice. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: There are also farmers who are functionals!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We also need the solidarity of consumers!]] You're right. That is exactly what I want to address, because, of course, environmental agriculture must also concern consumers, Mr President. I can only say one thing: that all the agricultural debates that are being held here in the house are, in fact, always talking about money and not about the overall structure, which is behind it and which would result in a corresponding income, if we were serious about organic farming, with sustainable agriculture. It is precisely Mr Zweytick who knows, for example, how the results of the wine producers are located in the South Styria, because they simply did not care about what marketing looks like and what niches and what areas can be found. [[Call to the ÖVP: But it's been a long time!]] Yes, I would just like to point out to you that, of course, there have been major changes in this area and that people in the South Styria – and I am sure that Mr Zweytick will be happy to confirm this – have a good outcome, because they have changed completely – even from mentality. What has bothered me so much about this discussion, even now, Mr Achs, is that farmers have to remain beneficiaries of subsidies and subsidies. – No, we need a structure in which farmers can really generate their income freely and independently. And that's all right. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We see farmers, farmers far too one-sided only as food producers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] It is important, Mr Wabl, that we finally bring food production out of the centre of the discussion, that we say: We also need farmers because they can be energy producers in the regional area. Biogas plants, ladies and gentlemen, lead to environmental pollution. I am thinking about the South Styria, about the Leibnitzer Feld – an incredibly important area to preserve our groundwater resources. It is therefore important to take part in the idea of environmental relief. At the same time, it is also a saving of money for farmers, because they need less fertilizers, and it is the prerequisite for a regional, sustainable, small-scale structure, which can create a much greater security of supply, including in the energy sector with renewable energy sources, than it is currently the case in Austria, where we are so much dependent on foreign countries in this area. We discussed the new energy tax at the beginning of this week. The specific policy is different from the words given here by the Members of the Government. On the accusation, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Firlinger has been so "unbelievably activistic" today when he came to the speaker's desk with two small sackerls. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Three!]] With three Sackerln animal flour – scandalous! Mr Firlinger! I really can't do that. This is not a political culture – no question at all. I would just like to ask myself, Mr Schwarzböck, why we do not want to acknowledge that in this way too, as has been done by Mr Firlinger, it can be shown and must be said that, while the confession is repeated again and again: Animal meal is not fed with us, must not be fed, should not be used; but on the other hand, there is no indication of the bag in which this animal meal is packed, that it must not be fed to ruminants. Nowhere can this note be found. Farmers will not be told when buying them that they are not allowed to feed them on ruminants. You will not be informed about this, for example, by pressing the invoice. However, if you wish to inform accordingly, please also make sure that this can be observed on the spot, because the announcement in the federal law paper, ladies and gentlemen, is not only insufficient in this area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But above all, it showed one thing: There is a very strong pressure in the agricultural sector towards profit. That's not a question at all. This is sometimes also paired with carelessness in the rural area, which is because – here the chamber is to be taken into drawing – one has been too one-sided, too preoccupied with the people. In the end, the Chamber must also take back to ensure that farmers can really become independent entrepreneurs. This is the one reality that exists. But there is also another reality, ladies and gentlemen. And this example has already attracted Member Wabl, namely the initiative there is in Mureck – I only take it out pars pro toto: The Mureckers are trying to produce organic products, to remove the grain from the farmers, then in the Mur mills – these are floating mills on the Mur, which they used earlier and which are to be used again today – to grind, process and then really sell on site. Mr Peter has repeatedly demanded that we also need a rethinking in the tourism industry. In the end, this has led to the fact that this initiative has said: Not only do we want to go here and produce organically and process them in a small space, but we also want to shape the whole thing so that it can be integrated into local tourism. There's a connection to the bike network. There is also the possibility to build an apprenticeship path directly on site. All these are small initiatives that are important for the people who live there, which they can really do themselves and which ultimately ensure their independence. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we want from the Liberals to see implemented much more in Austria. We believe that, in particular, ÖPUL is a project capable of favouring such structures, such innovative approaches. That is why we also support the motion for a resolution which Mr Wabl has already read. For we do not think it would be useful to stop the OPUL programme from going through bureaucratic obstacles. We believe that it is useful to carry out an evaluation based on the experience that has now been gathered, to also grant and to expand the new funding based on this evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is true that individual farmers have not been admitted to the OPUL programme only because of errors of form, I think that we all believe that this can be no lasting reason to exclude them from the area. The grants already granted are to be monitored. There will be return flows, and at least to this extent, new promoters should be allowed. That would be a sensible way. However, for the Liberals, the overall public programme, ladies and gentlemen, is the sign that the link between the environment and agriculture has not only been realized but also wanted to be implemented politically. That is why it is annoyed to us that, in preparing this programme, Mr Federal Minister, there have been complaints from the Federal Ministry of the Environment about the lack of involvement. To what extent this really is right now is to be said. In any case, these complaints have been filed. And the evaluation would be a way of increasing the close-up to your party colleague Bartenstein, in order to network the environment and agriculture much more closely and thus also to achieve discharges for our environment. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: It's also planned!]] If the Ministry of the Environment claims – I hear this from officials – that the entrance barriers to the OPUL programme were too low, so that some funding is at least environmentally neutral, if not even negatively negative, then this is something that should be quickly covered and not, just as it is happening at present, pushed to the long bank, because one wants to consider very thorough and comprehensive research. In connection with the national environmental plan, it is already very much in my memory – and I am impressed in this respect too – that good programmes are presented in Parliament thickly, but that these programmed confessions are not implemented in concrete policy. This is something that needs to be changed – therefore, this evaluation in order not to provide ecologically counterproductive support. If this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember the discussion last autumn, that the financial resources for this programme can already be classified as too low, then, Mr Federal Minister, you will have to make sure that within your place of business – as was requested by Mr Firlinger last autumn – there are remodellings so that this programme can continue to be implemented and expanded. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is a point of order for national labelling. A free choice of consumers requires fair and comprehensive information on the production methods and ingredients of food. This is also necessary in order to give ecological agriculture a real opportunity. If the whole agricultural industry, if genetic engineering is so important, so forward-looking, so great, so dangerous and high-quality, then it cannot be a problem to write it on the concrete product. The fact that we do not want to do so is because we know very well that it does not entirely correspond to the truth, or at least requires an increased need for advertising, an increased need for information, in order to really establish these products. But to the extent that such a comprehensive, honest label is not enforced, environmental agriculture is automatically hindered. That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion we have had over the last few weeks on genetic engineering is also, to a great extent, also an agricultural debate. The genetic engineering will be carried out in the Production of very strong new dependencies, which are also not useful for organic farming, and with such large-scale technologies, the distribution of profits and risk is quite different from what is sought in a structure of organic farming. That is why, and here I would like to remind you of a failure by the Federal Government or by its supporting government groups, it is important for consumers as well as for farmers that there is at last a comprehensive environmental liability which covers this area as well. I was in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, together with Mrs Motter, who was involved in genetic engineering, and a report was put to the vote and adopted unanimously in the House at the time: We need our own liability in the field of genetic engineering – at least this must be a liability for danger. – This has not yet been implemented. This is why it has not been implemented, ladies and gentlemen, because it is quite clear that the industrial interests behind it have so far outweighed those that we all have to have on organically structured agriculture. Therefore: The environmental liability has been promised by you, by the government parties, but it has not been implemented. If what you have said is true, Mr Schwarzböck, that the Federal Minister, whom we also appreciate from the Liberals, is as good as you presented it here for three minutes or four minutes at the beginning of your speech, if the Federal Government is as good as you described in your speech for three or four minutes, then it cannot be a problem to implement the environmental liability and also a comprehensive labelling obligation for food in Austria in 1996, at least in 1997 and really establish it. If you do, you will certainly have the support of the Liberals – actistic or non-actionist. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43828	Mrs Horngacher is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43849	Mr President. Minister! High house! Agricultural debates are usually quite emotional. This shows that there is an interest in this matter. Only: One of my previous speakers has called for the liberation of the farmers from the chamber constraints. – Did you not know that the farmers voted by a very large majority in favour of maintaining the chambers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] In Tyrol, for example, 97 percent voted in favour of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The structure of the Austrian agriculture is very different: from the extreme mountain farm to the large estate in favour. I am here as a representative of the small-structured agriculture and mining industry of Tyrol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Agriculture in the Alpine region provides essential services for the living and economic area of the region concerned. Without the work of the miner, the permanent protection of the alpine settlements, the sustainable maintenance of the landscape, forests and the vital water resources, recreation areas and the alpine regions is not guaranteed. The following measures to further develop the agricultural policy in the mountain area are therefore necessary: Production must also be ensured in extreme areas and the milk quota system must therefore remain in force. The currently existing support ceilings are not sufficient to compensate for the natural and economic disadvantages in the long term. In order to ensure the existence of our small-structured farms, the introduction of base amounts would be necessary, and green land development would have to be extended. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ensuring the promotion of investment and setting the focus on the generation of energy from biomass would secure the farm workplace. I therefore believe that it is vital that we pay attention to the careful handling of our livelihoods of air, water and earth; therefore, we must set aside developments that are directed against nature. It has already been said several times today: We do not want any hormone use as a growth promoter in the cattle mast, nor any in the production of milk. We also do not want any genetic changes in plant production. At some point, nature reverses what is now the case with BSE – because a cow is not a meat eater. – Now the consequences show up. We offer our consumers high quality Austrian quality that guarantees best and healthy food. However, we expect that those price cuts, which no longer offer cost-effective prices, will be compensated for by payment of benefits. The Europe Treaty with the farmers has kept. However, the funding for environmental promotion is ceiling. And if the degressive compensatory payments are to be removed, we will have to look at the situation carefully so that the objective of ensuring comprehensive management is ensured. It has been said today of cheap products that we produce – it was Mr Gradwelt. I'd like to tell you one thing: We do not produce cheap products, unfortunately we only get a very cheap price for our very good products, and that is because the trade chains advertise with our products and use them as lockers. And I don't think that's all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Barmüller spoke about profit earlier. We cannot live from the world market prices he has put into space. But we have to live; it's not just about making profit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few words on animal welfare. The popular desire for animal welfare has been signed by many people. Why not? Who wants to be an animal torturer, who likes to torment an animal, and who is not for animal protection? Everyone is for animal protection, including all of us here. However, on the subject of animal welfare, I would like to say: We have to have reasonable regulations at any time. But the Austrian farmers already operate under the strictest conditions of international animal protection, and therefore there is no need for special action. Unfortunately, the present proposal by the Greens is very practical and bureaucratic; further costs and additional requirements would result in our farmers no longer being competitive with other countries. Another farmer's death would be the result. - Do you want to? I also agree that things like the cage-keeping of chickens in Europe should be abolished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is animal torture for me. But then there must be another egg price. A new, additional burden on Austrian farmers and at the same time to import cheap food from other countries cannot be the right way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Yes! That's the point!]] I strongly oppose the fact that the farmers are constantly being treated as animal torture by certain people. While the farmer and the farmer usually feed and care for their animals in the stable at 5 a.m. every day, these people are in their beds for hours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And don't think about it if they have a goldfish in the cucumber glass and a dog in a tight apartment in the 7th century. Hold the floor or drag it on a vacation during hot heat in the car. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] Our farmers protect the landscape, they care for the animals, they provide for the economy and for society indispensable. We don't like such diffamations any more in the long run! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that we have such an ÖVP Agriculture Minister with whom we can go into a good future. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43975	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e43996	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see the opportunity, even as a non-agricultural, when it is permitted and permitted to talk about agricultural problems. I confess I have no fish in the cucumber glass, nor any animal that I torture on vacation trips. I even get up relatively early, even if I admit – not a bird! – that I probably do not get up as early as some farmers have to. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not a bird either?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't have a bird!]] But this alone cannot stop me from talking to my colleague Horngacher, also as non-agricultural and non-animal farmers about the problems of animal husbandry. They say that Mr Wabl's motion for a resolution would damage Austrian agriculture. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the implementation of such a declaration or the conversion of egg producers to an appropriate attitude in Switzerland has led Switzerland to be exemplary in this regard. And it is not known to me that farmers' deaths in Switzerland would have been accelerated by this. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Switzerland has only more than 80 000 farmers, Austria has 250 000 farmers!]] But with your policy at a rapid pace, you will help to make little remains of the 250 000 farmers in Austria. I shall come to the next subject, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and ladies and gentlemen, farmers within this party. I am surprised that, given the current events in Vienna about milk supply, the issue of milk supply has not yet been addressed. I think it is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP, which you are also represented in the relevant organizations such as Raiffeisen and so on, that it is possible in Austria that a city – not just a city, but a large area! – not only over one, not just over two, not just over three days, but over a whole week, can not be supplied with milk. Do you know what the real scandal is? Not the fact that there is obviously an absolutely inadequate management, which also demonstrates its inability to do so by claiming: With the milk in bottles, we have nothing at all on the hat. It is, in fact, just a side scandal of this scandal that we are dealing with a management that does not even know about these primitive regulations and ecological needs. The real problem, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is that both you and you from the SPÖ have contributed to this scandal with the way you organized and deregulated the daisies. This is the result of this deregulation policy in the dairy sector. We now have completely centralist, monopolistic structures, of which you have clearly believed that they are the best you can offer: If we break all small dairies, we create as long routes and descent paths as possible, we create as large structures as possible, we also break the ecology in this area! And now we have the result: a completely centralist structure, which, I say, has settled in the former "consumer" warehouse and which, like the "consumer" structure, was also a centralist, yes, supercentralist structure, which immediately failed at the first start. This is the result of your agricultural policy, ladies and gentlemen. And in this regard, it is a question which also has to be of interest to the Minister for Agriculture, because economic goods have been destroyed this one week. It is not only about, but also about the fact that the people in Vienna and the surrounding area, where this structure has collapsed, had to run for hours for a week, as in post-war times, so that they could come to their milk, but no one feels responsible for it at the political level. We'll all sit down with our shoulder and say, No, we're not responsible! No one explains. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I would suggest and advise you, as in the case of Raiffeisen, that you still have influence in these relevant bodies: Make sure that at least this management is taken away as soon as possible. Whoever has still not got hold of the problems of distribution after a week will probably not get under control in the next few weeks. Whoever can still say in the midst of these scandals, we don't want the glass bottles and we don't support them either, is ready to be "get rid of". Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I'm looking for you: Make sure that this management is "restrained" but also ensure that... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was between 1938 and 1945! There have been these expressions of human "disposal"!]] But, Mr President, you know exactly what that means. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: The choice of words plays a role!]] They will not want to imply to me that something else was meant in this context than that this management should be discharged. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Put it under the others!]] I have described the record of action precisely: Make sure she's released! It's about care, and in so far waste disposal is a wordplay, but maybe that's not the right thing for you, I admit. So I'm saying, Make sure she's released. [[Call for the call.]] You have the opportunity to express yourself! I mean, this is a problem that has to be of interest to agriculture and agriculture ministers. I am on the last issue I want to address – I also want to take this opportunity from a consumer point of view – that is the area of BSE. I have already been impressed by what Mr Firlinger has demonstrated today from the Liberal Forum, namely that, of course, it is still possible in Austria to feed animal meal, although it is not for ruminants, but for all other animal groups it is obviously possible. In my view, he has also made it quite clear that it is not possible or hardly possible to prevent the use of some animal feed in a mixed holding. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The farmers know cattle and pigs apart!]] It's not enough what you've got to offer here. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! There are appropriate requests from our side, you know, you have always voted down this in the past in the main committee. It was no problem for you to feed animal meal, you thought it was right. Mr Wabl has tabled this request to the main committee and you have not been able to agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to get used to – even if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic believes that it is only the media hysteria that, so to speak, creates the effect that people suffer – to judge these things a little bit more objectively. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I'd ask you to do that!]] I mean, the reaction to import ban is also an inaccurate reaction. The import ban is not sufficient to deal with the problems. The import ban is actually the wrong means, you know that very well. It only serves to calm down consumers, just as, in view of the research stand, it only serves to calm down consumers and would no longer mean if 4 million cattle were now burned in the UK. It is not only technically impossible, but also a disaster and not responsible for the fact that 4 million cattle are sacrificed to the anonymous market, although one knows that this is just a gesture towards the meat market, which is without health policy relevance. Of course you know, Minister of Agriculture, as well as I do, that, according to the current state of research, it is not even certain whether the pathogen, for example, cannot stay in the ground. There is enough research into the fact that the pathogen must not only be in the animal, and it is not even certain whether it is only in the brain or whether it can not be in the bloodstreams. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a protein component!]] When the animal is removed, it is still not certain that the pathogen has disappeared. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is a virus!]] There is a serious Japanese researcher who investigates the cattle disease in Great Britain and The pathogen also found in the soil and was able to see that the pathogen was passed on again to the animals via the meadow. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is a protein component!]] That's the problem! There is no way to say that the problem of killing the animals is removed from the world! I call on you, Mr Minister, to take every opportunity to conduct research in this sector, first of all in Austria, and secondly, after it has not been possible in the past to ensure that British beef has not arrived on the way, for example, through Holland and other countries to Austria, in all those cases where British beef has been delivered to Austria or is still in Austria, to take appropriate test measures, provided that they are suitable for dead beef. I mean, it's just cheap to do it that way, and it's right to do everything to protect consumers. The import stop can at best protect future generations who have never consumed beef, you know. Unless – and I do not want to accept this – the pathogen is already in Austria, there is already it in this country, which cannot be excluded, but which is not the case after all knowledge. But put the case, he's not in the country, then you can protect with the import stop children who have never consumed beef. But they can – theoretically at least – not protect those who have already consumed beef and veal – in the case of naturally imported beef. It should not be excluded that this is also the case in Austria. We still know much about the actual pathogen and its causes or its formations. Nevertheless, I think you have to deal more seriously with the matter. Point 1: Prohibit the feeding of animal meal, just as Mr Firlinger has already demanded and proposed, not only to ruminants, but also to all other animals. Point 2: In this sector, too, you also set out measures relating to research, and do not leave this to the British, who are obviously unable or unwilling to pass on their research results – that has already been complained by many researchers – to foreign countries. Point 3: If you can do so, you can also set up measures to test the beef coming from abroad to Austria. The possibility that they are British beef, you cannot exclude everything we know, because British beef can, of course, still come to Austria via its rebaptisation to Dutch or otherwise. I would also like to take measures at European level to enable this beef to be tested. That's why I'm looking for you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44182	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44207	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's chapter on agriculture and forestry, I would like to turn to the problematic situation of the auxiliary farmers. Mrs Horngacher is not here right now, but I can only tell her – perhaps she has not noticed – that honourable Members are very likely to work to ensure that quality is of value and that the necessary price is also achieved. He also agrees with fishermen that quality is a priority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are about 33,000 auxiliary farmers in Styria, and there are 1,700 auxiliary farmers in my district. In comparison, the number of full-time farmers: In Styria we have 16 000 and in my district 700 full-time farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! The utility farmers are often subjected to extreme stress. These farmers must do a regulated job in order to receive the parental court. It is not about having a leisure experience, but the auxiliary farmers are doing everything they can to maintain their rural existence. It is particularly difficult for farmers who, in addition to the profession, still have to provide for the children and work on the farm. I can only say: They often come to the workplace very exhausted, where they have to do eight hours of chord work to get the necessary financial resources for their purchases. That is why I too am in favour of social support. Mr. Minister! A request was sent to you some time ago regarding the distribution of the grants. Unfortunately, there are only negative rumors in circulation due to the reports in question. For example, a farm with almost 230 hectares of arable land receives a total funding of 2.3 million Schilling, but a mining farm in Zone 4 receives only 72 000 S, because it has mainly farmed and dairy cows, for which there are no subsidies. That is why, Minister-in-Office of the Council, we are very excited about the publication of this study. They have said today that the promotion has been exemplaryly successful – I hope it refers to this study. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We, as Social Democrats, are acting against a system of support, which, for example, supports large farmers from Marchland and the poor miners, who cannot use machines and therefore have to work hand-in-hand because of the difficult situation. We Socialists are also in favour of ecological agriculture. And if we hear the reports of the last days concerning BSE, we will only be confirmed that our demand for animal husbandry is the right way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in times of restructuring, it is necessary to support the small farmers, because the big farmer does not need our help. We Social Democrats will therefore do everything to eliminate social inequalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44273	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44294	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go into words from previous speakers in detail. I know you have to defend the government parties of this tax package. It is also clear to me that arguments are constantly being made, such as: These measures are necessary because of the debt and the Maastricht criteria, or: We are also one of the richest countries in the EU! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, who has prevented you from wasting less money and making a better and more economical economy? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Explain belonging to the richest countries once to the approximately 1 million people in Austria living at or below the poverty line. High house! It is particularly clear today how this Parliament is being downgraded to a voting machine: Today, 98 structural adjustment laws are to be passed here, structural adjustment laws that have been drawn up in the Husch-Pfusch procedure – otherwise not so many amendments would have been tabled by the government parties. The fact that the opposition is not in agreement with templates and that amendments and amendments are tabled is normal. But the fact that so many amendments are tabled by red and black shows how unforgettable these projects are. Parliament has been turned off from the outset, except for these small changes, because it was said from the house that the load package should not be tied up. It seems to me that the cook is commissioned by a dormitory, that he has to present a fast-food menu to his guests instead of an excellent meal and then sell it under his name or present it to the people. He wouldn't like that. But you, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, please do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, Parliament will be given the task of implementing a tax menu, which the social partners will have bought out, and you will decide, unexplained as it is, how willless puppets and serve the Austrians. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The structural adjustment laws in the field of agriculture cover, on the one hand, the Federal Offices and Federal Institutions and, on the other hand, the Wine Act. In relation to the federal institutions, you have managed to remove a federal institution such as Stadl Paura, which has existed since Maria Theresia's times, into the abyss. They have managed to block this federal institution, which has endured economic confusion and even war confusion. But this is no more surprising, ladies and gentlemen, for someone who is able to bring down the DDSG, who has also survived the war confusion, creates Stadl Paura all the way to the left. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second part of my statement concerns one of the many amendments to the wine law. The Minister of Agriculture is to be authorised to entrust the Federal Offices to the examination of wine and to the decision-making process by means of a regulation. Instead of this mini- or micro-correction, a complete revision of the wine law would have been most time. There must be a complete red tape reduction as quickly as possible, some of which are absurd in terms of quantities, the EU must be adapted, the banderoles must be abolished and replaced by a voluntary quality mark, as already exists in many EU countries. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – It is precisely the current regulation that only makes a difference to table wine, to country wine, so that people don't have to stick the banderoles. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already pointed out during the debate on the novelle on the wine law that this will be the case, and the current statistics on the distribution of quantities clearly prove this. You countercard the path to more quality, you go the wrong way: People are pressed to less quality or to declare the wine of less quality and to place it on the market as table and country wine. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, I have already pointed out that this will not be kept in the EU and that the European Court of Justice will remove this from the rules on the ban on the export of petrol wine in respect of quality wines and predicate wines. – It has been lifted, ladies and gentlemen. It is simply not enough for me if you, Minister of Agriculture, write in a reply to a question: "Either there is a standstill agreement between Member States up to a Community-wide arrangement by the European Commission or the Council. In order to avoid the risk of an action before the European Court of Justice, Austria has declared the passage of compulsory bottle filling not applicable by decree." Ladies and gentlemen! Just silently doing nothing is just too little. Minister for Agriculture! Here you have a need for action, namely acute need for action. The Wine Law should be fully revised as soon as possible and adapted to EU aspects – for the benefit of our farmers so that they are competitive in the EU. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must also not happen – and this has already been done here – that study and research, if they are unpleasant for the government, are simply not published, but can be shaken, such as in the Bacchus 2000 study, or at present in a study on the distribution of EU funding, which clearly shows that businesses in the less favoured areas, i.e. small-structured enterprises, are also disadvantaged with funding. Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to make a request on this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is intended to ensure that the experts of the Federal Agricultural Institutions and the Federal Offices or the authors of such studies will be able to publish their work in their own direction if the Federal Government to which the first publication is entitled does not exercise this right. Minister for Agriculture! I know that this request is unpleasant to you. But it is at stake here for the good of our agriculture, and it is not asked whether you are somewhat pleasant or unpleasant. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, we will not allow our agriculture to be sacrificed on the EU's altar, but we will work towards it, especially with the means of production, that our agriculture in the EU can exist under the same conditions of competition!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44437	The amendment tabled by Mr Salzl is sufficiently supported and I would like to involve him in the negotiations. Mr Kurzbauer has now been reported on the floor. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44461	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address this motto primarily to the ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. Do courage instead of messing up! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The situation of Austrian agriculture is characterised by difficult adaptation processes to the European Union system. We have around 267,000 farms in Austria, and 71 percent of these farms have a size of up to 20 hectares, i.e. a small to medium-sized structure. Considering the cattle stocks from the farm size structure, it is noted that in Austria, 2.4 percent of farms have stocks of 100 or more, while on average the European Union average is 43 percent and the UK is 70 percent. With regard to pig stocks from the farm size structure, Austria has around 11 percent, whose share of pigs is more than 400, in the European Union it is about 70 percent and in Ireland 94 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Above all, it should be thought that Austrian agriculture has a competitive disadvantage or no future prospects for the European countries. On the other hand, the 1992 reform of the common agricultural policy of the European Union shows that mass production and mass farming are not a solution for the future – therefore, the EU's path from support for production to cross-border compensation. So this is a steering measure with the success that there is no grain mountain and no milk lake in Europe today. But this also shows that we are on the right path with our agricultural policy and with our Minister Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to a wide-ranging agriculture. The number of our organic holdings in Austria accounts for half of the total European Union agricultural holdings. But we also need, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity of our society and consumers. At present, approximately 19 percent are spent on food, 24 percent in 1980 and 33 percent in 1970. In other words, it remains about 80 percent for other supplies and consumer goods. But we farmers also contribute to the environment. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if you are going through our country in the current spring season, you can see what a contribution our farmers make to the whole society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll come to the conclusion, too. Austria does not go the way of mass production and mass animal husbandry. The 1996 and 1997 agricultural budget, ladies and gentlemen, shows us the way into the future!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44532	Mr Koller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44554	High house! Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The structural adjustment laws in total make the farmers enormous, on the one hand in the family sector and on the second in the social field. In the Husch-Pufsch procedure, 98 laws were enforced at the helm. Colleagues Schwarzenberger and Schwarzböck repeatedly speak of the workplace farm. It's a job destruction! The study by Professor Schweiger proves it. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Schneider's name is this!]] In 1995, 5.5 per cent of agricultural migration took place, with the young farmers, with the future yards it was the double percentage, over 10 per cent. [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] With the ÖPUL programme, the Federal Ministry for Agriculture and Forestry of Austria was a farmer. The farmers were advised in 1995 that they could choose to enter the ÖPUL programme later on. The ÖPUL programme will now be illegally frozen at the request of the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. I therefore make a request. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] Through your politics and your Husch-Puff laws, the farmer will continue to die! You call that a savings package? - That's a marsupial package! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44628	The motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Koller is legally supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Brix. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44653	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Water is life; no life without water; and therefore this element is also a very central topic in the present. A successful environmental policy of the 1970s has enabled us to see Austria as a country where water in the lakes has a high quality of drinking water. Another successful environmental policy in recent years – especially through the efficient construction of sewage treatment plants – has enabled water to have a quality class of 1 and 2 in most of our rivers today, which we can really be very proud of. Ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, the situation in groundwater looks different. From groundwater, about 50 percent of all Austrians draw their drinking water. I quote from the statistics of the Austrian association for the gas and water compartment of the waterworks attic: There are 400 000 people supplied with water whose pesticides are above the legal limits. In the water for at least 120 000 people – I find this very worrying – the valid nitrate value of 50 milligrams per litre is exceeded. The land water measurement network of the Ministry of Agriculture shows 30 percent of all measurements from 1993 and 1994 that the pesticides – especially atrazin – were very high. We have areas in Austria – especially the Marchfeld in Lower Austria, the Parndorf Heath in Burgenland, unfortunately, but also the garden area in Vienna – in which there are very high concentrates. "The March" – this is what the Federal Environment Agency says, because I quote here from a report from the Federal Environment Agency – "in addition to other target values, a three-fold exceedance of the Ammonium Directive value of 0.5 milligrams per litre appears at both sampling points. The water quality of the Zaya deteriorates from Aspern to Niederabsdorf. Ammonium content increases by six times, nitrate and phosphate levels by two. Sulfate and chloride rise in the water sample from Niederabsdorf." This, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly bad, and I believe that we should help agriculture in particular so that it can also handle this important matter of water. Ladies and gentlemen! But we also – and I see this as a particular danger – have a causer where agriculture is not entirely innocent. I have here a letter from the Executive Director of the OMV, Mr Dipl.-Vw. Günther Schwarz, who writes – I quote from his letter –: "Since the first months of this year, the agricultural interest representatives in various agricultural newspapers have repeatedly published that in the specific sector phytosanitary protection Austria has been and still is a high price country and the products are up to 300 percent more expensive than in neighbouring countries. This gives many farmers the impression that it is most appropriate for them to obtain plant protection products abroad. Since no control is carried out at borders, many farmers have made use of it, but they have been overlooked that these products bought abroad are largely not identical to those registered in Austria and may not be used. There is also a violation of the law in force in respect of food law, and the harvest products must not be sold. However, since there has been a tacit tolerance by the agricultural authorities, or often in advertising form, encouragement for the illegal movement of farmers, we have not been informed of any controls by the authorities." I would ask you, Minister of State, to support the Austrian economy, to be able to sell Austrian funds, and to prevent the introduction of plant protection products which are not intended for us at all on detours abroad. I also do not think that our farmers want to use such resources, but I think that they too would prefer to use Austrian products. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Can you give us a specific case so that we can proceed with it?]] I can then provide you with the letter from the OMV, in which all of this is listed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We have to do the thing!]] Of course. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What is forbidden is forbidden!]] I also know that you want to do this. We can only do this together so that we can achieve that our groundwater will not be further burdened with such pollutants. Ladies and gentlemen! The environmental control report also notes that there are shortages in groundwater, particularly in the districts' house wells. An example: To remove a kilo of atrazine from drinking water, 20 million schilling must be spent. The causer – agriculture in this case – remains unscathed, an abuse, Mr Kaiser, whom the Court of Auditors has already criticized in 1993. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kaiser]] While strict rules apply to households, farmers do not need a channel connection. I am of the opinion that we should be careful to ensure that there are canal connections in agricultural property too, so as not to infiltrate detergent residues and so on from the waste water into the soil. This can only help farmers. [[Abg. Aumayr: But let's get the sewage sludge out again, colleague!]] Mrs Aumayr, I'll be right back to that. I would therefore like to draw the conclusion and ask the Federal Minister to stop the further expansion of the sewage treatment plants, not to require any further treatment plants and to say: 85 percent are too few, we want 90 percent and more. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Good suggestion!]] In Vienna, for example, the increase in the clearance rate – we have more than 80 percent purity, now we should get 95 – costs 4 billion schilling alone. We no longer know where to go with the sewage sludge, so I like to come back to you. For example, if we were to use these 4 billions to clean up and secure the groundwater in the Vienna horticultural area, they would certainly be much better applied. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Good suggestion!]] I would therefore suggest that we take over this money, but no longer make it available for treatment plants, but that we use it for the protection and rehabilitation of groundwater. We just need that in Austria. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Vienna, let me say a few more sentences on a particularly brilliant topic. I am really very happy and very happy that the Federal Minister said at the last committee meeting – I have written down this sentence, and I hope he still supports it – that forest management is important: Forest before wild. We need a forest management, and that is also related to the water. It cannot be, therefore, that the Viennans carry out a proper forest management, for example in the area of high-swallowing, drastically reduce the wildlife, spend 70 million shilling annually for natural forest management, and are now asked by the Styria to pay money for the water they draw from their own land and land, which they manage properly. This too must be stopped, this too must be prevented. [[Abg. Kröll: Who's the finance council?]] I mean, the Viennas, who really run a decent forest economy, did not do anything for which they would now have to be punished. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who is the Finance Councillor in Styria?]] He didn't do it alone, they're certainly both sorry. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who is the Finance Councillor in Styria?]] I'm not putting this on the head of state. I am putting this into those shoes that have jointly proposed it, because that is certainly not right. [[Abg. Kröll: But there is already a red finance council in Styria!]] In the sense of Vienna, there must also be justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44821	The next speaker is a friend of parliamentarians. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e44842	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Austria's agriculture needs two years after accession to the EU – and this is certainly more difficult to deal with than the first year – above all one: that the policy is about what it promised the farmers before accession. The present budget, with the necessary structural adjustment laws, speaks and helps with the solidarity package to secure agricultural agriculture in Austria. However, many things still need to be improved at EU level. In the core EU, we need steps in the field of green land, which lead to land-based and more animal-bound premiums, as we already have in agriculture. As an emergency measure, I support the President-in-Office's Conference in this respect, it is essential that EU mast premiums in the field of green land be improved. I therefore also call for the introduction of a mast premium for female cattle in order to correct the loss of income due to the negative advertising of meat. In order to ensure a comprehensive management of the country, this will also provide jobs. Because one must be clear: The labour market does not have any additional migration from rural areas. Green land farms generally have low land facilities and now need our support. The financial weight should therefore be portable. However, it is precisely for this reason that the measures to be taken in order to counter the structural crisis are to be called for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Europe-wide crisis of confidence in meat consumption has led to a fall in the prices of cattle in these days. Our farmers again pay a high price for mistakes that have never been committed in Austria. I therefore believe that Austrian consumers are right to pay attention to the origin of the meat. The consumer wants to know where his food comes from. Minister Molterer proposes a precise designation of origin to the farm, which must be comprehensible for the consumer when buying. This line must be supported. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is to be welcomed by sectoral plans, for example in the field of producer communities and in the 5b measures. More than 400 million schillings are planned for sector plans and producer communities for 1996 and 1997. I thank Mr Molterer for his consistent policy in the interests of agriculture and meat consumers. I would particularly like to highlight his strong attitude at the BSE Special Summit of Agriculture Ministers. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But for the Austrian farmers he has not achieved anything!]] Together with Commissioner Fischler, he represents a strong attitude towards the ban on hormones, in which growth promoters have now been included in the mast. I also support our Federal Minister in his hard attitude towards the inconsistency and the wishes of consumers to bring herbicides-resistant maize to the market on genetic engineering. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Tegian.]] We need the meaningful use of genetic engineering in the direction of a development towards less chemistry, more resistance research and not the increase in the sales of chemicals. However, this does not conflict with the legitimate demand of our farmers that the cost advantages of plant protection products producers should also be passed on to farmers. This will certainly not lead to an increase in chemical use. Furthermore, chemical-oriented agriculture is certainly not in the sense of our farmers – the opposite is the case. Finally, the consumer decides whether to buy Austrian goods and thus ensure the existence of rural agriculture, and the consumer wants less chemistry and more nature. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] In the context of the development of the common market, I would like to ask Federal Minister Molterer to support the maintenance of the EU-wide quota system, particularly in milk, for the period after 2000. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Short farmer.]] The ever-increasing question of the renationalisation of agricultural compensatory payments must also be rejected, as it contradicts the spirit of the Single Market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: My God!]] It is now particularly beneficial that our negotiating team in Brussels has achieved a good result. Two points must be highlighted in particular: security through the environmental programme and good opportunities for development in Objective 5b areas. [[Abg. Aumayr: Don't be ridiculous!]] Above all, the latter will be... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What is he talking about?]] This is typical for you because you do not know about the agricultural sector at all if you react in this way: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] What's he talking about? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're just back to inform the farmers wrong. Then you get back to the same situation as you hear from the Carinthian region that not all the farmers were there. And just in this direction, you're also arguing now. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I am therefore seeking to inform our farmers properly so that they will eventually receive compensation payments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! New prospects need to be opened up, especially in rural areas. It is a question of making these areas more attractive. Initiatives in direct marketing, new emphasis in the partnership between agriculture and tourism and the expansion of infrastructure and closer cooperation must simply remain very important areas in the future. There are still open questions on territorial demarcation, which, as we hope, can still be resolved in the sense of a natural space demarcation with Brussels. The balance of currencies is also a particularly important aspect, particularly due to the decline of the lira price, an important point for the present, of course, but also for the future, considering that the Italian lira has lost more than 83.8% of its value since 1970. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where is the hard currency compensation? Where is he?]] Italy is an important trading partner for us, but this is always negative in the agricultural field. The integration of such important trading partners as Italy into the common currency system and the implementation of a fair currency balance, which our cattle farmers in particular urgently need, are simply important steps that need to be taken now. [[Abg. Wenitsch: This should have been done for a long time! It's too late!]] Agriculture – which can clearly be deduced from structural adjustment laws – is an integral part of the economy as a whole. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The money is in Brussels, and we don't pick it up!]] Where farmers are able to adopt processing and marketing functions in the interests of maximum customer orientation in order to create new income opportunities, this Structural Adjustment Act will take necessary steps. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why don't you pick up the money?]] -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45060	I now give the floor to Mr Grabner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45078	Mr President. Federal Minister! As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to address a subject in this area which I am interested in as a sports speaker in my group and which is my heart. The situation in agriculture as well as in the Austrian tourism industry is marked by a major restructuring. The objective is to modernise these industries for a successful economic future. However, I would like to talk to you about a subject that requires better cooperation between forest owners – whether private or public – and where there is still some work to be done. This is a future regulation of the mountain biking to the satisfaction of both partners. Why is that important? – The boom in the mountain bike area is undoubtedly unbroken. A survey conducted by the Fessel Institute revealed that 12 percent of all Austrians have a mountain bike and 5 percent intend to buy a mountain bike. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, approximately 500 000 bicycles are sold annually. It is also a particular concern to me because this sport is becoming increasingly popular especially among young people. But the deviation from traditional sports also entails a shift of activities from sports venues to nature. This will create social points of conflict that will be resolved by politics and, in part, have already been resolved regionally. A recurring problem is the so-called path-holder liability, which usually serves as a basis for argumentation to the forest owner in order not to allow mountain biking on forest roads. In any case, I can say from my own experience from numerous discussions with mayors, tourism managers and forest experts that the views of the forestmen on cycling on forest roads are still very different. However, more and more mayors and tourism experts also recognize a market opportunity and express themselves for cycling in the forest under certain conditions. [[Call the ÖVP: On forest roads!]] Of course, my colleague. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In order to solve the liability question on forest roads and mountain cycling, forest owners, local and tourism representatives must sit at a table. It is about designing and implementing a model that avoids legal uncertainty and clearly defines legal consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Arnold, are you inviting us?]] Of course. There are also people who like to cycle. What is the current situation? I would like to explain this by means of the Austrian Federal Forest. The Austrian Federal Forests have identified their own forest road network for mountain bikers in the length of nearly 1,000 kilometres and laid down the economic conditions for it in directives. On the basis of these directives, negotiations will be conducted with municipalities, tourism associations and other institutions. In short, the most important mountain bike agreements with the Austrian Federal Forests. First of all, I want to have one especially on the 14th. In July 1995 the contract concluded with the Land Oberösterreich was highlighted, with which 300 kilometres of forest roads could be released in the beautiful salt chamber for cyclists. Payments: 3.70 S net per runmeter and season. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mr. colleague, there are mountain bikers also in Vorarlberg, and tourism is also in demand in Vorarlberg, so this is also an important point for you for the future. [[Abg. Head: We just solved the problem!]] In May 1995 an agreement was concluded with the Land Oberösterreich for routes of 30 kilometres for the Reichramiger Hintergebirge – fee: 5 S net per runmeter and season. The most recent agreement was concluded with the Lungau Tourist Regional Association, which will enter into force this month for a distance of about 30 kilometres. Fee: 3,20 S net per runmeter and season. In addition, there are a number of agreements of regional importance with various municipalities and associations in the length of 20 kilometres. Furthermore, concepts such as for the federal state of Salzburg for a length of 675 kilometres in negotiation, 277 kilometres of which concern the Austrian Federal Forest, the rest of the Road Associations, for the federal state of Tyrol for a route of 560 kilometres – the Federal Forest Share 200 kilometres, the rest of the Road Associations – as well as for Lower Austria and Vienna for a length of 230 kilometres. Ladies and gentlemen! Mountain biking will also be important for tourism in the future. I think we owe it to young people, to communities, to tourism, and I hope that everyone will contribute to solving this problem. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Young farmers!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] You're so healthy that I don't have to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45177	Mr Kampichler is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Like Mr Grabner, I too am not a farmer, but a member of the Committee on Agriculture. However, I am an enthusiastic resident of rural areas with very strong agricultural roots, and I would like to deal with a matter of great importance to our rural area, namely the management of this rural area by agriculture. This factor contributes to the fact that these regions are recreational and therefore attractive to tourism. Ladies and gentlemen! A survey among holiday guests in Upper Austria has confirmed that the first priority is the choice of a holiday resort. In other words, the active farmer, who does not even first and foremost benefit from tourism, contributes very much to the fact that a region remains attractive. I would like to thank the farmers very, very much, from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many farmers have discovered this sector of activity and offer farm holidays as a very lucrative side-by-side acquisition for them, and this is very successful because the trend is clearly heading in this direction. This shows the increased demand for guest rooms at the farm, and this proves the increasing number of nights. People are getting more reasonable. The stress holiday, where you want to travel as many miles as possible in a short time and quickly breed the most intense browns, is not in demand of God at present. I don't know if you've noticed an appropriate radio release this morning, too. It could be a positive effect on the current structural improvement phase, the current economy of savings, that people will again be reasonable in terms of vacations. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Reasonable tourists choose the real recreation and adventure holiday at the farm, which is often also cheaper. Especially families discover this form of shared holiday experience. An increasingly important sector of income, ladies and gentlemen, is also the possibility of direct marketing of agricultural products for many farmers. The Mostheurian has become a popular destination in my region. It has developed a great must culture that brings excellent products to the market. This direct marketing has saved many operators from acquisition. They have thus created a very good income. Of these farms, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot hear any complaints, at most that they do not comply with the production of their delicacies. I know, of course, that in this business sector it sometimes comes to a strained relationship with the gastronomy. I believe, however, that there must be a peaceful co-operation, if not even a harmonious one. The excursion tourism needs both offers. Each provider has its specific target group. Friends of the Mostheurian would probably not feel attracted by a well-run inn, and vice versa, of course, it is the same. What we urgently need, ladies and gentlemen, are the same conditions of competition for both business units, and I believe that we should not raise the provisions for Mostheurians to the partially difficult level of trade regulations for host companies – it should be the case more the other way round. Each of the two types of farm is of particular importance and importance to rural tourism. Only when all the elements in this area work together, we are attractive to the guest: the agriculture that takes care of the recreation region and receives the economy, which with attractive offers gives the guest the opportunity to spend his money in the region. [[Abg. Grabner: And a good flesh!]] That's right. Mr Grabner has probably tasted it a few times, and he has also become a fan. Of course, the communities are also called upon to create the infrastructure that the guest expects from us, and the population is invited to signal to the guest that he is welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of this Structural Adjustment Act is to secure Austria's economic location. Tourism is an important factor. This legislation creates the conditions for good development, both for agriculture and tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45242	Mr Wimmer is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45263	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian agriculture is in enormous structural change. Increasingly fewer workers in our agriculture produce more and more. They actually increase their productivity from year to year – a development that goes hand in hand with the other economy and is therefore also comparable. The year 1994 was a very good year for our agriculture. Thus, for example, final production could be increased by 5 percent – I was quite amazed when I studied the corresponding documents – to 77.3 billion schilling. The results of 1995, the first year of EU membership, were now in focus. A few days ago, thanks to Professor Dr. Schneider, the new income data were published for 1995. This study shows that the Austrian farmers earned around 2.6% more than in 1994. This result is very promising at first sight. It must be relativized, however, if one knows that the employment rate has fallen by around 5 per cent over the same period. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very bitter development, which is shown here, but which cannot be fought as easily as some here in the House imagine. I think it is simply too easy to solve the problem by making a motion for a resolution and asking for agricultural location assurance, as the liberals have done. Ladies and gentlemen! How realistic – or say better, how honest – is such a demand to be interpreted: The Federal Government is urgently urged to guarantee fair remuneration, social security, farm as a farm location and jobs to all people employed in agriculture and forestry in Austria? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Please give us your proposal for implementation of this request or tell us how you really want to implement these measures that you require. [[Abg. Madl: The chancellor does not need to say how he will create the 80,000 jobs!]] Mrs Colleague, even Austrian Communists have agreed to job security. Please note that in our system. [[Abg. Madl: It is not to be grasped! That's incredible! 80,000 jobs!]] Mrs Colleagues, this is already very strong in how you deal with it. [[==References====External links== Madl.]] They always criticise protected jobs when it comes to the private sector, but they are committed to protecting jobs in agriculture. But you know for yourself that these measures cannot be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think you're making it too easy. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! In 1995 the total funding of the Federal Government, the EU and the countries made up more than 190 000 S per employee, you know that very well. But your demands are, as so often, easy to understand, they are very simple, but they are not serious because they are not feasible and because they cannot be financed above all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Moreover, such verbal demands are nothing new. The past has proved that other mechanisms simply need to be created in order to be able to exist on the market in the long term and forward-looking. This is a question of developing the whole agricultural policy towards organic and socially compatible agriculture. The repositioning of businesses is also continuing, and it will therefore be necessary to improve the market position and competitiveness of enterprises with various support. Wouldn't make sense, dear Ladies and gentlemen, are we working to unite the conditions of competition across the EU? I believe that agricultural measures in the framework of the 5b programmes will be very important for the future development of rural areas. I also believe that there will be great opportunities for these 5b areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] There are already a number of projects that have been prepared for submission and are under way in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, after much talk about BSE this week, to add two more sentences. Yes, we are the strictest monitoring of the ban on imports of British beef and veal. The effects of the disease are not foreseeable and therefore it is essential to prevent them. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, I deliberately say "prevent" and not "unsure". The example of England shows that mass animal husbandry in so-called animal factories is a fatal misdevelopment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we are jointly called upon to set up our agricultural policy in such a way that we can maintain healthy rural structures. In the future, the consumer must have the certainty that it will find healthy food in the business. Ladies and gentlemen! So in 1995 we dealt with the immediate transition to a whole new system relatively well. It will be one of our main tasks for the future that the ecological orientation of agriculture will become an integral part of the EU's common agricultural policy, and this, of course, means that an environmentally sound agriculture and forestry sector is even more defined as a eligibility criterion than before. Mr. Federal Minister! You have previously misunderstanded my colleagues, and since we are both from the same federal state, I will repeat it again. I'm sure you understand now. Federal Minister! They have spoken in a press release of grinding schemes from a certain level of support. They called the magnitude range from 100 acres. At least I read it that way. However, I would like to say clearly and clearly here: Introducing regulations, not even those from 100 acres, have nothing to do with social staggering. I think that with your Commissioner Fischler, who has already explained to us what he is, but above all what the EU means by promoting, it is in the social criteria: a system that is socially balanced, a system that is socially just. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Another sentence on this subject. In March of this year, the Socialist Group in the Committee on Agriculture has tabled a question on the distribution effect of agricultural support. Unfortunately, it hasn't touched anything to this day. We haven't received an answer yet. I ask you, Minister of State: Make a little wind for something to go on. We are waiting for what you are going to send us. Allow me to take a little excursion towards forestry. [[Call to the liberals: No!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the restructuring proposals for the Austrian Federal Forest. In this context, we are talking about a foundation. At least I took it from the newspapers and the other media, Mr. Federal Minister. I say quite frankly to you: I doubt that a foundation will meet the conditions that will be necessary to meet these important requirements. Especially at a time when the resources of forest, soil and soil, but above all water, are gaining more and more importance, the influence and access of the owner must not be eliminated, weakened. In the case of a foundation model, the owners – in this case the Republic of Austria – are actually being set up shackles. This is not good and can therefore not be implemented and implemented. Finally, I would like to say that we are committed to the support mechanism. Mr President, Mr Schwarzböck! We are going the way together, but – and I am saying this quite clearly – ecological and social aspects must be able to take a greater role in the future, because only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, can our agriculture be guaranteed in the long term that it can fulfil its nutritional function on the one hand, but also the protection of the landscape on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45357	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45379	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My very short second speech refers to the speech by Mrs Horngacher, who, in my opinion, spoke and also replicated me. It refers to my belief that it is surprising that such agricultural debates are primarily about money, and that there are programmes by the Federal Government which are not implemented over and over again, that it is also a concern that cages for chickens are finally abolished throughout Europe. I wrote this. She said: I am also in favour of the abolition of cages in the case of chickens in Europe, for example. There has also been a spontaneous applause in the ranks of the ÖVP. According to my knowledge, the SPÖ's political statements also show that it also rejects cage farming. There was applause on the part of the Liberals. The Greens have even concurred, that is, a lot of people who agree with one of the Greens of an ÖVP-Redner or an ÖVP-Redner. You have even continued, Mrs Horngacher, and have said that the limit to animal torture. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, then today would be the opportunity, as there seems to be a consensus in this regard, to dare and at least try to clean up at European level the cage of chickens. I therefore put forward a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is exactly what Mrs Horngacher said, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, congratulated. I don't know if the SPÖ applauded. I know only because of political statements that you are not averse to this. If this is an important concern for all of us, as we have always pointed out, and if it is not true that your concerns are not implemented, then, ladies and gentlemen, you could agree to this motion for a resolution. It would be a sign of the commonness you so often asked for from the opposition in this debate this week. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45442	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Zweytick is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45466	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that this item on the agenda, like almost no other one else, could and has become a positive item this week. I hope, Mrs Aumayr, that you will then do so after you have been placed on the list of speakers. I expect this, above all, because I believe that our Minister Molterer also has a significant part to play in the work of the agricultural sector in Austria, which works in such a way that he is now Europe-wide, world-wide, and that is why people come here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: This is the living proof that a person who is in itself sympathetic does not automatically say something happening!]] Agriculture means light vision and hope for the future of Europe, for all people. Mr Bauer! They are also a living proof of this! There was a lot of criticism in the chambers as well. Mr Horngacher has already said that the great approval of the Chambers comes from the farmers, and they must know it. Almost 90 percent of the farmers in all the federal states have voted in favour of this. This made it quite clear: The path that has been taken by the Chambers in the past is to continue in the future, even if the structures and environmental conditions change, something that people – including politics – are constantly confronted with. Other chambers can take an example of this, and it would be desirable if this worked everywhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The agricultural policy of the Austrian People's Party is increasingly on the path of sustainability. In other words: It is a society that does not see the branch on which it sits. Please don't always talk about promotions. These are not subsidies, but payments for farmers for the service to the general public. A lot of awareness-building and marketing are still necessary that go toward common networked thinking. It's all about agriculture. It not only produces food for us, but also ensures us survival products. Mr Salzl spoke about the wine law and the banderole and about the possibility of taking a more liberal attitude and dealing with the banderoles, for example with the table wine and with the mountain wine. Thank God we have adopted a more liberal attitude in the Wine Law to be simply EU-compliant in order to be able to play better in the competition. The banderole is a pure control sign, as you know. Of course, it also has to comply with the legal provisions of any other wine on whose bottle there is no banderols. These wines are also being examined, and I do not think that changes to the legal provisions are necessary at the moment. It will be brought into line with the EU Wine Act, but this remains to be seen. However, we can deal with this already in Austria. We have a clear example here of more precise compliance with the provisions, because a seal of quality alone does not sell wine for a long time. There are already so many ways to stick things to bottles, but people don't have any more joy with them. It really depends on the value added that is achieved in sales, and the latter is subject to very different regulations than legal ones. Mistakes are made by law, and adjustments are made if this becomes necessary over time. As a result of the agricultural policy of the Austrian People's Party, this is done in time and to a greater extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrians have the right to call this country their own. The people in the cities are proud of the surrounding area, for they know that the plant city can only grow if it allows the earth around it. Do not make the "F" a policy that calls this into question and drives a cone into the society that has already become so sensitive. Rather than encouraging people, this malignancy is depressing them. We do not need to compare ourselves with others, but we only need to look at ourselves more consciously once. Then we'll see what we have and what we can do. The weekend is in front of the door, and after this long week will be You will be sure – sunshine is announced – to the beautiful country where beautiful rural areas want to go out, you will be a slut Wine or a glass must drink, the specialties eat, the peace, the air and, of course, also enjoy the good water. At some point one must also be aware of the value of the water and that water is certainly not unjust. It's better to discuss it before than when it's too late. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, it is often so that you either talk about something too early or come up with something too late. Now would be the right time to discuss what, I think, would also be justified. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: As a Styrian MP, I understand you, but not as Wiener!]] I'll talk to you about it. You don't need to understand it as Wiener. We are giving a lot to Europe and to the world: our eco-social market economy, our eco-social path, without mad cattle, without the profit of the gene groups, without eco-vagant, but with Minister Molterer and Commissioner Fischler, who, because of the fact that in Austria such excellent agricultural policy is being carried out, shows Europe, even the whole world as it is. I am very confident and optimistic, thanks to our Minister Molterer, that agriculture and agricultural policy are on the right track. You can do and say what you want, no way will pass. We are on the right track, but it would be nice if you would also propose alternatives as we could make it better. Then maybe we could make the way a little faster. I'll invite you to that right now, and I'll close my speech with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45546	Mrs Aumayr has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45568	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zweytick! As one of the most sympathetic colleagues of the ÖVP, I must say to you [[Rejoicing and Congratulation]] The speech you gave here today was a wishful speech, and you would be predestined to play Mr. Zweytick, a role in the series "Universum". With reality, what You said you didn't do anything here. Wishful thinking is that, pure wishful thinking! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It would be nice if this picture, which you have drawn from Austria and Austria's agriculture, would be real. But what does it really look like? Today a number of praises were given to Mr ÖVP Minister Molterer, by Mr Schwarzböck, also by Mrs Horngacher. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just no envy!]] I'm not jealous, colleague Khol. I can only tell you that I have been in the House for five years now, and every year there is a budget debate in the chapter on agriculture lobbying for the Minister responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how old you are?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Not next year! There's no budget!]] We'll see. You'll find a way again. There were also praises for those ministers who are responsible for the conditions under which Austrian farmers have been led to the European Union. It is that "fischler's fine food minister" who is now giving a press conference in Tyrol, in this dramatic situation for Austrian cattle farmers. And what does the former "Fine Cost Minister" announce, the now 400,000 S monthly EU Commissioner in Tyrol? What is his favorite food, Mr. Schwarzböck? Is the favorite food of Mr. Commissioner also yours? - English beef! Is this also your favorite food, Mr. Schwarzböck? - I think so right away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This must be imagined: This commissioner imposes an import ban on English cattle and for English beef and then advertises medially in Tyrol for English beef as his favorite food! [[Abg. But this is the name of a piece of flesh, and not a land.]] No, no, Mr. Arbitrator! In this case, the Commissioner was concerned with something quite different: He wanted to signal support to the English, but that went beyond that. This is why it has been added because it has previously imposed an import ban on this meat. But afterwards he goes here and says, so seriously I didn't mean it, I prefer it anyway. But that Minister Fischler – or now Commissioner – has also been praised, especially by the ÖVP, for the great outcome of the negotiations he has achieved in Brussels. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was very good!]] That was very good, Mr Khol, it was even so good that you now have to break a promise, because, as the Minister said last year, you have been negotiating billions of schilling from Brussels for this great public service programme – it is great, no question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All at once! First, you said that the whole program is nothing!]] I'm telling you, there's not enough billions. The Minister has also promised beforehand that there will be any possibility of entry into this five-year programme. Mr Schwarzenberger! You promised, I've got all the farmer's federal newspapers here. And what are you doing now because there is budgetary scarcity because it turns out that this great Commissioner has totally appreciated the negotiations in Brussels? – Now you hang – completely illegal! – at the highest level, a stopover for farmers. This is a scandal, I can honestly tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They cannot stop at all because the directives are not negotiated with the EU. That is to say, the content of information to farmers is completely illegal. Now a short while to today's agenda, to privatize the federal institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You mean the collectors!]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP and also of the SPÖ! If we adopt this law today, it must be clear to everyone that the only equestrian farm that is available up to the hour in Austria – the only one that exists in Austria! – is liquidated, it will no longer exist. You have to imagine that! You, Mr Schwarzenberger, call it privatisation. You don't want to sell anything but the terrain with as high profit as possible, so you can stop your budget holes, otherwise there's no argument. You don't care what happens to equine breeding in Austria, you don't care about it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45700	Excuse me. The noise level is so high that I would not hear if there was something that deserved a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45740	Mr Schwarzenberger! Mr Schwarzböck! All the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, who today decide to amend the Federal Institute Act, are responsible for the fact that in the future in Austria there will no longer be a state equestrian farm to stop it. It is not a private person able to carry on this task and task. They also risk the school in Stadl Paura. Yes, you don't care! They've run out, and now we're stopping budget holes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45771	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Emperor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45792	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, although I do not have the time, I would like to say something about the comments made by Mr Aumayr: Like other liberal Members, she is swimming once again on the Mäsmacher wave. And not just that: It also accuses a colleague, Mr Zweytick, that he does not swim on the messier's wave and does not make everything bad, and also others that they praise the Minister. These are rather adventurous things! If you have spoken about Minister or now Commissioner Fischler, I would like to say: Fischler is also concerned that the consumer regains confidence. I know him very well and can guarantee you that he does not eat English steak every day, even in Brussels! You can say that in advance. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: About 400,000 s a month, he could also buy Austrian beef!]] It is about restoring confidence so that markets can recover, farmers can sell their livestock and prices will also get better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the public: You would have been well advised if you had informed the farmers objectively. I made a farmland education event in the municipality of Mr Wenitsch, and I specifically asked to invite all the political groups – at a time when the EU model was being designed – to show the people that the price losses can be offset by compensation. That's courage instead of messing! If you stop the people and tell them: It's all stupid anyway, you don't get anything! , and the farmers are outraged then, if they suddenly get nothing, then this is a problem. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You write this to the farmer!]] That's probably ruining some businesses, but you've got that to answer yourself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are dealing with the problem of BSE – that is, I am referring to the cattle sector – so that we can manage the problem in a certain way that the consumer, where there is no real danger, and there is no one in Austria! –, gain confidence again, and over the trust the paragraph will stop again. In addition, we must try to bring the market into order quickly. There are EU deposits and exports. Perhaps one thing in this context: If we were not EU members, the Italians, who also experienced 40 percent declines in slaughter in the last few weeks, would probably close the borders, and then we would have no chance to find a place to sell our goods. I think you should recognize that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that 71 percent of consumers place great importance on knowing where the meat comes from. Many self-employed businesses and companies are also trying to support consumers in this effort. I have such a hangout here, which a smaller meater could make, I also have the agreement that Minister Molterer has concluded with the industry – a very positive thing. [[the speaker will present him]] I am pleased that the meat production, which is sometimes quite critical, also says: "Stop the panic!" Only on this path can we create confidence again! I am opposed to Mr Haider's statement, in which he has made the AMA seal bad. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] It may be said as a trading partner that there must be too much control, but those who take control of this control, for example when prohibiting the feeding of animal meal, will be rewarded by consumers, for those who buy meat with seals can be sure that nothing can happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're working on creating a sign of origin. There are talks with all market partners in this regard. Unfortunately, a large trade chain has so far remained distant from the conversations. Perhaps you could take a little influence. When we all sit at a table, it will work, and then the consumer will have confidence again and our market will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45880	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45901	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You do not need to be afraid to hear a new contention of debate from me. I am pleased to be able to announce to you that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Thomas Barmüller, Mr Klara Motter and Mr Firlinger, has now become a motion for a resolution by Mr Barmüller, Mr Horngacher and Mr Gradwohl, as well as other Members of Parliament concerning the abolition of the cage holding of chickens in Europe, introduced in the course of the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act (72 of the Supplements). I should like to read this motion for a resolution in formal form so that it is properly put in place. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e45972	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. I note that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur still wish to speak? - No, I don't. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. We shall vote on the Agriculture Advisory Group of the Structural Adjustment Act. This includes Articles 84 and 85 in 95 of the Supplements. Mr Salzl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the part of the draft law concerned by this amendment and then on the remaining part of the Agriculture Advisory Group, which has not yet been voted on. Mr Salzl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to the whole of Article 84. I'm looking for a sign in case of consent. - There's the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 84 as amended by the Committee's report and seek a sign from those ladies and gentlemen who are here. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining part of the Agriculture Consultative Group, Article 85, as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask for a sign for those Members who give their consent. - That's the majority. Accepted. As far as the motions for resolutions are concerned, I am beat in accordance with paragraph 55. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to put them to the vote immediately. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold, Wabl and comrades on improving the quality of truth in the award of the AMA quality seal for meat and sausages. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to join this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl, ing. Reichhold, Mag. Firlinger and comrades concerning the meat hygiene regulations in force in the draft. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl, Mr Mag. Firlinger and comrades on the development of the Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture. (ÖPUL) In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – That's the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl, Mr Mag. Firlinger and comrades on a uniform system of product declaration of agricultural products. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the minority again. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades on reducing the competitive disadvantages of Austrian farmers. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades on the consistent continuation of the Austrian Environmental Agriculture Programme (ÖPUL). In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Barmüller, Horngacher, Gradwohl and comrades on the European abolition of cages for chickens. In any case, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is assumed to be unique. (E 7.) That concludes the voting procedure. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46135	Before I proceed with the negotiations, I announce the following: The Federal Chancellor's Office has indicated that, according to the Federal President's resolution, on today's meeting day, the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, Dr. Helga Konrad, will be represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Caspar Einm. Other parts of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, and in particular Articles 20, 80 to 83, 88 and 91 thereof.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46167	High house! We now proceed to the negotiation of the remaining parts of the Structural Adjustment Act. I would ask the rapporteur to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46186	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like the National Council to give constitutional approval to the remaining parts of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, in particular Articles 20, 80 to 83, 88 and 91. I would also like to put to the vote the resolution on the Committee's report on an examination of the transport effects associated with the introduction of the Vignette. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46213	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46237	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now slowly coming to the conclusion of the debate on the tax package, and especially in the remaining parts of the Structural Adjustment Act, we are now aware of the problem which we have criticised this week of the more frequent, namely that in this convolution of applications, of legislative amendments, of often very far-reaching changes are included in the matter of materials, which in fact would have been lost nothing at all in a debate which concerns budgetary changes, and which, because of their brilliance, which could perhaps not be recognized at first moment, would have been worthy of a more detailed debate in the relevant technical committee. One of these parts is the amendment of the Wehrgesetz referred to in Article 80. Ladies and gentlemen! § 28 of this Wehrgesetz amendment states that the ordinary ground defense service, which has been established up to now usually at six months... [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr President, I don't know if there's any more attention...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46265	I think the attention will be restored after some calming. You're talking. Go on, deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46283	Mr President. Perhaps the unrest is justified, because the procedure we had to experience here this week, namely that important applications have been submitted in Bausch and Bogen, seems to produce unrest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This change of law does not say more and no less than that it could undermine the current military system. There is simply a flexible presence service, which can be between six and eight months, depending on the military requirements. This means, however, that we are becoming more and more organized into a purely training army, and once again the idea of militia is completely turned under the table. We also see that, in recent times, the procedure - assistance missions, the use at the border, which required more and more training time - has to be corrected by such measures, and that less and less time for exercises remains even after the regular ground defense service. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite simply a contradiction to our principles of a military force that we leave the basic military service for longer and longer and no longer for appropriate exercises after the completion of the military service. This is also accompanied by planning within the department to reduce the mobility strength from today's 120 000 men to 90 000 or less. This is nothing but an adaptation to the constantly denied fact that there are fewer and fewer basic defenses and that planning unfortunately depends on reality. This is particularly the case because the area of national defence and, in particular, the political leadership of the defence of the state is less and less understood to be opposed to all the tendencies directed against the federal army and against the national defence. We will be able to experience some samples of nails next week, when we decide on the budget, in relation to statements made in recent days by representatives of the government parties. For example, I remember statements about procurement or the infrastructure in the army or the budget. Mr Amon von der ÖVP has announced that he will work for a higher army budget. Next week, he'll have the opportunity to do this. He only needs the current disaster budget that has been presented to us to refuse his approval. But always in Sunday's speeches for the defence of the state and then agree with the German opponents and abolishers, that's a little too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] Because colleague Murauer "hello!, hello!" I would also like to give you an example, Mr President, of what an evil game is being taken here with the defence of the country and even beyond. These are the statements that we have recently heard about reforming the intelligence services and the state police. It was reserved for the clubman of the Socialist Group to make a hidden charge, because he apparently believed... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] Thank God we have been problematizing this, my dear colleague, fresheners. But he has believed, now, in times of budget debates, it may not be noticed what the background of his demands is. Of course, a reform of the intelligence services and the state police is necessary, and we can discuss it over and over again. But it was revealing how this discussion was started again. Klubobmann Kostelka calls for the abolition of the Army News Office. The Minister of the Interior, old-known and proven in such things, assists him immediately and calls for the aggregation of all intelligence and intelligence services into an analytical center. Ladies and gentlemen! Analysis center! I'd like to know what that is. The colleague Elmecker also assists him. He thinks the Army News Office is tumbling around and you really don't know what it's good for. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing written about all these demands in the Coalition Pact, which should actually be the programme of this federal government. On the contrary! It states that there will be an attempt to force the cooperation of all military intelligence services and the civil state police, but the abolition of which is not a question. However, what Mr Kostelka once said about election programmes seems to be true here too, namely that they are fairy tale books. So it seems that one too one can also be applied to government programmes. Government programmes are also fairy tale books, because when they are decided here, something else has long been planned by the other members of this government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Once again, we have to deal with a left-wing accusation against federal authorities, and particularly in this area of intelligence, this is particularly insensitive and, in my opinion, particularly dangerous. As dangerous and insensitive as this is, only the fact that one immediately had the support of the Greens who have said that one can speak wonderfully about these issues and they will ensure their support. Ladies and gentlemen! It is no coincidence that one wants to disband the army news office, the army news office, which, one hears, is more to be assigned to the ÖVP store within the resort. The defence office, which is more likely to be assigned to the SPÖ camp, I say carefully, is excluded from this reform, although, when it comes to abolishing or correcting double tracks, rather the defence office, if one wants to discuss this already, could be addressed there, because the defence office is working inwards, on the other hand, the army news office is engaged in the secret service externally. We all know, Mr Elmecker, that in recent times, for example in the period of the Slovenia crisis, the Army News Office has provided important information, which has then led to the corresponding reactions of Austrian politics to these incidents. But they believe that the Army News Office is tumbling ahead and one could resolve it. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the hidden goal of this reform discussion? The aim, Mr Elmecker, is once again to put another stone in a mosaic of concentration of power, namely the concentration of power of your camp, which wants to secure itself from mandates against future losses of voters, by drawing the threads in this area as well. A super-secret service under the Federal Chancellor's Office – ladies and gentlemen, a truly dangerous threat to all the righteous citizens in this country! Power concentration in the Federal Chancellery, coupled with grid suspension, coupled with noise attack, coupled with hearing measures! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also had to take note of what has not yet been clarified in Parliament, Mr Elmecker. Is that on the agenda, what happened here and what you have not been able to explain, Mr Elmecker? Because Mr Murauer asked: What does this have to do with the ÖVP? – You’re in the government, and it’s now the question whether you don’t even get the SPÖ on the glue again. [[Abg. Murauer: You have not read the opinion of the ÖVP!]] Mr Murauer! You have already said: We are creating a constitutional protection! This could be the same as the SPÖ's claim, only with a different name. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] - Please? – You have nothing to say anyway. Mr Murauer! We will look at how you react to these advances or whether this is not just another theatre donner, and you will not, in the end, – just in another form, a little weakened – give your consent to just these demands. Mr Kiss, you smile so mildly. This ambiguity was also evident in your last word. You have asked Minister for confidence, asked him to give you confidence or to take measures so that you can also trust him and promote cooperation. You can see how he's going to live up to this trust: He wants to make more circumcisions in your area so that the concentration of power can be constructed entirely in the left half of the empire. Mr Elmecker! Of course, there is a need for reform in the secret services, but especially in the state police, because only the word of the Director-General Sika was already defying and embarrassing for this country, when he said that there had been political interventions, for example, in the campaign for the bomb terrorists, that the state police could only identify in one direction. That was really defaming! But there has been no response from you at all, Mr Elmecker, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Elmecker, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. The most disgraceful acts of terror, the most disgraceful terrorist attacks of recent times, could not be resolved only because – or at least their Enlightenment has been severely impeded – because there are power politicians in this country who can prevent the state police from working in order. If these are your reform efforts, this super-secret service, you will have to take note of our firm resistance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Especially the military intelligence services and also the defence office have quite different surveys on terror in Europe, including in Austria. What there is for networking, for example, from far-left organizations, Mr Elmecker, you could ask anything, because you could turn the investigations in the direction that these terrorist attacks can also be resolved. – But all of this is not important to you, mainly, it fits into the basic ideological concept. I believe that the intelligence services and the state police are obviously in need of reform. But this reform must not take place in any party rooms or ministries, but it must take place here in Parliament, because on this sensitive question we are responsible for the fact that no abuse can be carried out that no abuse and no intervention can be constructed in the fundamental rights of our citizens. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The control committees, Mr Elmecker, which we set up here a few years ago, are in fact already in need of reform. The proposals are coming into the house again and again, there are discussions on the reports of the ministers, but we do not know what we can and can do with this information. I would prefer not to call up these committees, because we could get the information we are getting from the ministers there in a full committee. The secret is nothing at all, and there has been nothing that has been dangerous in recent times. It is only then that the question arises again and again what we, as political mandates, can do with this information, with these public places, because there is a strictest obligation to keep secret. So here, too, it turns out that all of this is not practicable and has long to be reformed, a reform that must be established here - I say it again - in Parliament, but must not serve to ensure that a political camp secures power for the future and endangers the fundamental rights of Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46396	The honourable Member, Dr. Lukesch, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Structural Adjustment Act, which we have now dealt with for a week, has been very often sketched by the opposition as a savings package or load package. But now the colleague Scheibner has approached us with another message. It has seen that this law actually amends structures, so that it is not only about budgetary measures that are effective in the short term, but about long-term reforms, but also about measures with a corresponding objective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim of these measures is to make our country economically stable, the aim is also to create more justice in this country and to strengthen ecological reason. That is the real objective of this Structural Adjustment Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A particular example of the implementation of these structural objectives is the Federal Road Finance Act. On the one hand, it is intended to provide additional resources for infrastructure development, which is now particularly necessary economically, but it is also intended to bring more justice to the financing of these infrastructures in road construction. Thirdly, it also has an ecological approach, namely to internalize the external costs of transport better than before in its long-term concept of driving performance-dependent remuneration. This law is an impressive example of how strongly politics is challenged to deal with the narrow grat between reason on the one hand and justice on the other. Federal Minister! Here a rope company with a Tyrolean mountain guide at the top could be very useful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the Protocol: Worse applause of the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the long-term objectives of introducing road pricing in the high-level road system. It is an economic and ecologically reasonable objective to pursue precisely in road transport according to the 'polluter pays' principle and to account for the social costs of transport to the causers. Our people will not be fooled by your Gugga music – the colleague Stadler will know what it is, and will also translate it from his group – namely to be fooled by the fact that an ecologically high standard for the individual is to be introduced and implemented free of charge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: At Lukesch everything goes into the cafeteria!]] The law is also based on the equivalence principle that infrastructure costs must be paid primarily by the users themselves, that is, the drivers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: More than you, Mr. Lukesch!]] This applies in Austria in particular to the high foreign share of passenger transport in our country. Our road system could thus far be used more or less free of charge, while we Austrians in countries around us are always being asked to register – whether that is in the Czech Republic, whether it is in Switzerland, whether it is in Italy, whether it is in France, whether it is in Hungary and so on – except for Germany. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Even the Andreas Khol is speaking!]] We Austrians pay everywhere – and the foreigners aren't supposed to pay with us? – This is not a reasonable policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No one is instigating to find out about 200 S toll for the Italian motorway on a weekend trip to Lake Garda. No one takes offense when he has to pay almost 400 S for an annual vignette on a visit to Zurich, only with us should not go that way. We want to change this situation with this law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Of course, the vignette system, as it is now designed, is only a first step in the right direction of economic and ecological reason, but it has the advantage of low administration costs, low technical introduction costs. It is therefore all in all a first step in the right direction, unlike a model that the Greens prefer, the Tacho model, where it is not clear how to control, where it is not clear how to deal with this model in the case of foreigners. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Luke, there's a page missing!]] The question of justice, however, is already a delicate and particularly dangerous one from the point of view of a Tyrolean Member. On the one hand, as an area heavily burdened by transit traffic, Tyrol must, on the other hand, have a particularly sensitive ecology and, of course, as a tourist country must pay particular attention to quality of life, have a high interest in ensuring that the external costs of transport are also accountable. That is why I am very grateful to Mr Ditz for having followed twice the resolutions of the Tiroler Landtag in the field of truck pricing. The experience of the last months has also given him the right to: Truck night traffic on the burner has now fallen by 70 percent. The Tyrolean politicians here rightly demand – on the condition that they go to the right minister, not like Landesrat Lugger from Tyrol, who has worked in Vienna at the wrong ministry; that is a liberal – the Tyrolean politicians also demand a corresponding stability to the EU. [[Abg. Kiss: Is that a more liberal?]] Only if we are stable on this issue will we be able to influence the future EU Road Costs Directive in our sense. That's a right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget – and I consciously draw back to the Tyrolean example – that there is, in addition to the truck - of course, also a passenger transport: On the transit line in Tyrol, 1 million trucks drive in the year, but 19 million cars. The fact that this also results in environmental pollution, of course, and is therefore justified in charge of transport costs, is, I believe, obvious. The fact is, however, that for a quarter of a century, we have been faced with a mooring on the Brenner motorway and later on on the Arlberg line, while the users of the West motorway and the users of the South motorway have so far not made such an infrastructure contribution. Here, the vignette system changes a bit fundamentally: Not only the Tyroleans and Vorarlbergers and partly the Steirers and Salzburgers will now pay, but all Austrians will make their infrastructure contribution, and that is to be welcomed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also achieved very good success in the production of regional justice in the negotiations with the Federal Minister. Pendlers receive the vignette free of charge to their Brennermaut. The annual card users are charged this vignette. For tourism, there is a suitable model in the form of a two-month model or the combination tariff and thus a solution that is much cheaper than an Italian toll or a French toll for a French traveler. Nevertheless, it is obviously to be feared that there will be a evasion of traffic in Tyrol, especially in transit. How extensive this evasion traffic will be can't be said today, that's a speculative question. I am therefore very glad that we have agreed with the Federal Minister on a monitoring system – a monitoring system – in order to keep in mind this delicate issue of evasion in particular and to encourage the Federal Government to take the necessary measures in the appropriate case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In contrast to the "F", I still have to get rid of a tip that results from a request from the Federal Council. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't! You should have a style here!]] There a Tyrolean "F" member said: We liberals were always for a general toll on the Austrian motorways. We just don't want the side by side of a vignette and a special toad on the expensive and cost-intensive Alpine crossings. – But he did not say how high such a general toll would be in relation to the corresponding revenue neutrality. First estimates amount to approximately 2 000, 2 500, 3 000 p. Then what did the evasion look like? What were the consequences – for example in tourism – of this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So, please, throw it. You don't have nebula candles, neither in the Federal Council nor here in your subsequent statements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Tourism is an essential economic factor for Austria and for Tyrol in particular – I have already said that – the Vignette concept also takes due account of it. However, there is still a positive proposal, particularly from bus travel, namely the week ticket better to match the leisure habits of bus travellers. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] This takes better account of the change of travellers than the restrictions on Sunday compared with Sunday. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Tirol has certain legitimate concerns when it comes to introducing this vignette. But our policy, ladies and gentlemen, should also take courage. I believe that it is indeed a source of courage. Let us think, for example, of the rural population. For the Landeck bypass, our colleague, Mr Platter, fought for it all the time. Now Minister Ditz also has the appropriate financial basis to fulfill these commitments. Let us think of the inhabitants of the villages at the S 16, which is just not finished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] – You don’t know yourself in this area at all, Mr Trattner, because you don’t come there! You should first see how the population suffers from transit without the appropriate route. I'm allowed to hold the middle for my constituency of Tyrol: The general budget effect also allows easier financing of the Brenner-Eisenbahn and the underground Inntal-Eisenbahn. In this sense, we Tyroleans will be very likely to fight for our fair share of Vignette revenue, and I am convinced, Minister of State, that you are fighting on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46652	The just-readed amendment is properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46676	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So we're doing "98 on a strike" this week. We have already welcomed the fact that the 91s are among the 98. But stop!, we enjoyed ourselves too early: ==References== March, our club wife received a letter from Dr. Kostelka and Dr. Khol, in which it says: We have found another 91er, and we still have to provide for an adjustment to the Federal Ministerial Law. For us, that was enough of the Frotzelei parliamentary work, and to our understanding we have taken on the strongest weapon, the largest protest measure, and have left the comical role in the mirror fighting of the committees. You truly have the forehead, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, to decide quickly one of the most important organizational conditions for the structure of successful government work. Sacrifice the quick shot under red-black color teaching You're the subject matter of work. I take note of that. Mr Vice-Chancellor, of course, needs a Secretary of State, as he cannot perform his ministerial duties as a party observer himself. The Minister of Health continues to be completely incompetent because health insurance is deprived of access. The Minister for the Interior is still responsible for immigration, and I believe that this is not a security issue, but a social problem that should actually be dealt with by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Youth and family stay in a place with the environment, although they have nothing to do with it at all. It's best when it comes to Future Minister Scholten: He remains in his self-understanding Minister of Art. That's what I like, because art is something future-looking. Only art has very little to do with its real task of being Minister of Technology and Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals have been working for a few weeks on a proposal for a Federal Ministerial Law, a division of competence, in which we provide that the 14 Ministries without State Secretariats come out: From our point of view, it is objective, in terms of content appropriate, expressing the political will, disseminating the competences and also cost-saving for this country. We shall allow this motion for a resolution to be submitted to the House during the month of May. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How long do you need to do that?]] Look, Dr. Khol, that's what distinguishes us: We believe that what you do is simple and gripping. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We sit down seriously and think about it. We're talking to a lot of good people about how this could look. But for you, the color teaching and the fact that we are still going through it in the afternoon is much more interesting, because you know that everyone is tired and wants to go home. There's no big discussion. - Tactically very clever, I congratulate you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you!]] We are nevertheless submitting an amendment to the present draft concerning the architects and engineering consultants. I've allowed myself to distribute it to the clubs. I believe it is simply wrong for architects and engineering consultants to have their supervisory authority at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do not think that they belong there, nor do I believe that the ban on power for the Minister for Economic Affairs would be so great. In my opinion, they should be located in the Ministry of Science, because there would be a much better relationship there. I think that a master builder is something other than an architect who is very active in the artistic field. Our amendment is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you all came along. I now come to a second point, which is being dealt with under the 'transit', on the question of tolls, which Mr Lucisch has defended here in such a correct way. I do not know how Mr Lukesch will argue at his next election meeting in the Wipptal. But he'll think of it, I suppose. After what he has told us here and today, the toll is actually the solution of all things, and one should have introduced them five years ago. Let me go back a little bit in time – if we speak in history, Mr President! For 50 years, the Second Republic has existed – insofar as we are of an opinion, right? After 50 years of Second Republic, the high-level road network in our country is still a flattering carpet. The south-east of Vienna is missing, Klagenfurt-Nord is missing, the Westspange Wels is missing, the Phyrn motorway is missing and the Innsbruck-Vorarlberg connection is missing. And what we have built – see the West motorway – this part of the Fleckerlteppich is already breaking down. Mineral oil tax has now been increased several times. The standard consumption levy reaches European top dimensions. So we are in the tax burden of transport on an all-time high and experience a purchasing power drain in petrol, which only Naïve could not foresee. If the fuel cost 6 S in Slovenia and 12 S in Graz, it makes sense that people travel to Slovenia for fuel. The loss of purchasing power, the loss of VAT and the loss of mineral oil, which results from the excessive pricing or from a free internal market tax system for petrol, will cost you more, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, than you will bring with your entire toll. What a policy this is, I have to ask Professor Lukesch, who has just defended her so wordably. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: A bad one!]] Agreed. Let's call it a bad policy. The Minister for Economic Affairs then has the opportunity to take a stand on this bad policy and whether it would not be better to make petrol prices that do not generate so much loss from the move in purchasing power, where the existence of many gas station owners is at stake, just because one wants to obtain money. [[Abg. Scheibner: Perhaps the OMV can deliver to Slovenia!]] In addition, although the flickering tape is not ready, we have 78 billion schilling debts in the ASFINAG. So we have not finished the high-level roads, and we have still piled up 78 billion schilling debts, so that the repayment and interest for these debts will substantially devour the budget of the Minister of Building for Roads from 1996. This is the success – Mr. Khol, you can participate in the discussion – of ten years of ÖVP ministers in this department! One's sitting there, that's Dr. Ditz. His predecessor was Dr. Schüssel. His predecessor was Dr. Graf. That's quite amazing! - Count without a doctor. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Count without a doctor!]] For ten years, black ministers were responsible. They have piled up 78 billion schilling debts, they have not built up the road network, and the existing road network is in such a pitiful state that it is necessary to generate as an Austrian or to apologize for his car or his chassis. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Have you ever driven a car?]] This is a declaration of bankruptcy of the policy of road construction. Do what? – You had a good idea: electronic road pricing. Electronic road pricing is EU-compatible, it does not interfere with the traffic flow, it allows ecological differentiation between different types of passenger cars with different consumption. It can include all tolls cost-effectively. It can stagger traffic through different tariffs in time. There is no evasion traffic when you take out local transport, which can be done in road pricing, because there can only be evasion traffic on short distances, not on long distances, so you can control it. It is part of a pan-European solution, so there is no distortion of competition for our Austrian transport industry. And: It's bringing money. Federal Minister! I congratulate you! They had a good idea. My compliment! Only you had a problem with this: It doesn't bring the money right away, but the West motorway will be broken down in a year. So you've been thinking about it. Do what? And there you came to the toll pickerl. After all, Switzerland is doing it! This is an excellent explanation by Professor Lukesch for his Tyrolean voters! – Said, done! 98 on one strike, we'll pack it up soon. Article 20 Federal Law on the Financing of Federal Roads, beginning 1. January 1997 – the coalition parties will decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party! As parliamentarians, they really have a big stomach. What fits into your stomach and how you argue everything here, I really find fascinating. The most fascinating thing is the statement by Mr Maderthaner, President of the Chamber of Commerce, who told us a year ago: The tollation proposed by Minister Klima for foreign trucks must by no means lead to an increase in the burden on Austrian trucks. And he continues: This means that the highest vehicle tax in all European countries is payable for a truck registered in Austria. - Well, that's where Maderthaner knocked on the plaster! A motorway vignette, too, says Maderthaner, for which Transport Minister Climate has proposed an amount of between 500 and 700 S per year, is currently not a discussion topic for the economy. – This is a representative of the economy! That's what I'm praising! He says that the increase in the tax on mineral oil is enough, and he is finally proposing that the commitment of purpose should be reintroduced. This would have enough money to close the high-level road network. Well: That's what you read before dinner. Now, after dinner, it reads differently. Professor Lukesch had the honour of explaining exactly how this change of mind has now taken place by 100 percent. Now, at once, there are no cost increases, now it is no distortion of competition, because it fits into the '98s on a strike', and then the coalition parties have agreed. Did you really think, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, of how high the investment costs for the introduction of this motorway vignette are, and only the short-term ones, because you have a commission? I do not think, Minister of Economic Affairs, that you want to make this provisional solution a final solution in a good old Austrian way and then we have the toll pickers by 2050. You want the road pricing. I told you: The road pricing is reasonable, you can discuss it. This is a way to really correct the cost of the road. Did you break your head over how many parking spaces we need, for example, to sell the vignettes at a weekend of travel on the Walserberg? Or do you want traffic jams to Rosenheim? Maybe there's a traffic jam down to Munich, that would be a new record. Have you also considered the extent of the traffic that is going to take place in the Tyrolean region? The Wipptal is already overburdened today. You have to have solutions for that! There is no ecological differentiation either, because there can be no differentiation with the pickerl. A five-liter diesel car, which is environmentally friendly, needs exactly the same toll pickerl as a jeep that heats 25 litres! Have you considered the resistance in the main countries of origin of tourists? I admit, Minister of State, it is not about the absolute level, you are right. The absolute level is not the subject, but it is about the fact that Holland and Germany, which together represent 70 percent of Austrian foreign tourism, do not have a culture of a vignette. They pay in Switzerland, of course they also pay in France and Italy, but they understand Austria as part of their cultural circle. As a result, the stop in Germany – I admit it is irrational – is a very hot topic. Have you thought, Minister of Economic Affairs, about the uprising of bus operators? – I received a lot of letters. I'm just reading you two. A bus operator writes: The proposal of your Federal Government allows only the conclusion that the campaign of Austrian advertising "Servus Bus" from 1. In January 1997 the campaign "Cschus Bus" was opposed. We have, of course, answered all these entrepreneurs that it will cost only 300 s for a week anyway. You have already corrected the error with Sunday/sunday due to the just submitted amendment request. Another bus operator writes: Should the motorway fee not be averted to this extent, we see ourselves forced to avoid Austrian long-distance roads and motorways and to escape on land roads, or to remove Austria as a destination for a trip from our programme. Federal Minister! I don't want to overestimate that. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I think so!]] We politicians always receive, when something is changed, a variety of such letters. However, I believe that the collection of a toll in times like this is simply the opposite of what we really need, namely the promotion of tourism to Austria. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What do you suggest?]] You have now brought in ideas that I think are necessary. You have lowered the price for the car pickerl for two months toll to 150 s. They have created a combination pack including two tolls by a total of 350 S. I believe that this is something that will bring us a step closer to the solution. Nevertheless, a whole series of areas are open that go beyond those I have already listed. For example, have you ever been to Bad Radkersburg? Have you ever drove from Passau to Bad Radkersburg, Mr. Federal Minister? There you have to pass through the Bosruck Tunnel and through the Gleinalm Tunnel. This means that you pay a 350 S Kombipackpickerl and then you pay again because you have already consumed the two included tolls in the Bosrucktunnel. So you pay twice more at the Gleinalm Tunnel. – The Steirs obviously do not get on it, but there are only very few delegates from ÖVP and SPÖ from Styria. Some toll lines are not included in this combination pickerl at all. I am delighted how you will shape your information policy, Minister of State. For the guest who buys the combipickerl and says to his wife: Hurra, we can drive anywhere!, for example, have to pay once again at the Glockner! – I am excited about your information policy, and I will look at how you do it! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Don't think so complicated! In Switzerland this goes without saying!]] That is a really objective, intellectual reason! Yeah, that's what I'm saying: When it comes to the others, we're fine! – The fact that Swiss tourism, Mr Mayor, currently has the greatest decline in its history, that Swiss tourism is much worse than Austrian tourism, does not matter to you! – The figures of the year 1997 will then prove it. Ladies and gentlemen! For a sensible road pricing you will find absolutely the consent of the Liberal Forum. However, if you present such a brush that you do solely because of it to cover your failed road construction policy of over ten years in which you have not finished the high-level road network in which you have accumulated 78 billion schilling debts, and after which the existing road network is partly in a pitiful state, we do not give you our consent. You now want to go the easiest way and say: After the mineral oil tax increase and after the further increase of NOVA we simply increase the toll. – The consent to this road robbery, Mr. Federal Minister, does not get you from us!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46868	The just-readed amendment is properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46892	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also turn to Mr Dipl.-Vw. Luke and Mag. Peter raised a number of issues, namely the toll of the high-level road network. This Federal Road Finance Act 1996 takes an important step towards redesigning the management of the Austrian high-level road network. I think there's still some sort of agreement about that. The importance of this high-level road network – which is essentially four to six-speed motorways and highways with a total length of about 1 800 kilometres – has been discussed for a long time. Various concepts, such as the award of concessions, the isolated introduction of a vignette or different road pricing models, have been more discussed in recent years. In recent years, I have never left a doubt that the introduction of a comprehensive, driving power-dependent and ecologically designed toll system in the form of a road pricing system is the first priority of these considerations. We do not have such a big difference, Mr Peter. I believe that the advantage of such a system is, inter alia, that it is more just because of its dependence on driving performance, that it takes better account of the principle of cost-reliability in transport, that it allows a much faster gap in the high-level road network, that it is better accessible to a uniform toll and transport policy than for example private concession models, and that, finally, the driver can be better served by appropriate toll companies. The positive effects on employment and the economy are also not to be mentioned here. For the Vignette, ladies and gentlemen, it is their simplicity, their immediate applicability and their possible lower administrative costs. However, it was always clear to me that any vignette solution should only be used as a transition to the introduction of the road pricing system in the form of a semi-open system. I believe that the Federal Road Finance Act, which is to be decided here today, will set the course in the right direction. In particular, it also makes sense to introduce road pricing first of all for heavy traffic, which, after all, has a much greater impact on the population, the environment and the roads. I hope that we can actually keep the 1998 period under review. As far as passenger cars are concerned, I believe that an introduction before 2001, as currently foreseen in the Federal Road Finance Act, would be quite possible. Last year I looked at the appropriate field experiment on the A 555 direction Cologne – from Brühl to Cologne – and I was able to convince myself on site of the technical feasibility. Of course, there are certain differences between the tested collection systems, which can be roughly divided into four groups, namely a microwave technology system, a GSM system concept, infrared technology and GPS technology. In my view, it should be possible to find technically sound, feasible solutions in the short term. As mentioned above, the Vignette solution is only considered to be a transition to the road pricing system. That is what we are looking at in my group. The corresponding financial revenue, which is estimated to be net in the area of about 1.5 billion schilling, is mainly used for the construction and extension of federal roads, mainly by federal highways and federal highways, i.e. for the gap that has been mentioned and also for all the gaps required here more or less. By the way, in the gaps you mentioned, you have overlooked an essential passage which concerns me in my political work: It is not only about the south-pass of Vienna, but also about the north-pass of Vienna, which will be very necessary for the discharge of the population of Vienna from East-West transit. I am particularly pleased, however, that the amendment to the Government's proposal on the proposal for a directive has also succeeded in enabling the Federal Road companies to carry out credit operations in order to achieve the gap more quickly through the advance on future toll revenue. This amendment has also succeeded in addressing numerous objections, such as from the federal states. For example, the determination of those federal roads for which a vehicle dependent toll is to be removed for the first time takes place only after consultation of the countries concerned. The same applies to the situation of the toll stations. I do not want to hide here either, ladies and gentlemen, that there are problems with this Federal Road Finance Act for a parliament in particular, although the Office of the Vienna State Government in its opinion has considered the introduction of the road pricing system to be adequate and fair and has also shown the understanding that, in order to bridge the time gap until the introduction of this system, the simple to operate model of the time-dependent toll vignettes is used. With regard to this vignette, it should be noted, on the one hand, that many drivers who use their vehicles mainly in conurbations usually use at least occasionally motorways and federal highways, and therefore for this reason alone the vignette needs. On the other hand, I would like to stress that the determination of the Federal Government to use toll revenue in particular to expand the high-level road network must, of course, take appropriate measures for Vienna. I am thinking, above all, of the rapid attack on the construction of the B 302, namely the north crossing, and the B 301, on the south side. With regard to the perfectly justified objection, for example, to the Vienna Government that in the original draft the mere crossing of the Danube would have been tolerable – it was normized that a driving power-dependent toll should be paid for the use of bridges – the said amendment allowed for compensation. By the way, this provision would have been related to road pricing, but not to the vignette. The current provision has now been converted into a canning determination. For agglomerations, such as for Vienna, it is of particular importance that at the same time it has been noted that a derogation will be created when the road pricing system is introduced as a semi-open toll system for the urban motorways. I have mentioned earlier that I see this Federal Road Finance Act as an important contribution to the future restructuring of the management of the high-level road network. In my opinion, a few further steps need to be taken in conjunction with the time laid down in the law on a future road pricing system. As in the past, I still think that a combination of the two remaining federal road companies, now called by the Toll Collection Act, is useful and necessary. Also, the obligations of ASFINAG arising from road financing should ultimately be transferred to this company for operation. The importance of these measures is, for example, confirmed by the German road companies themselves, which propose, in a proposal for the financing of the maintenance, repair and adaptation of the motorway and express road network in Austria, inter alia, a transfer of the ASFINAG loans to the German road companies. They also argue that, instead of the previous federal liability, the use of motorways and highways and the resulting revenue could be offered to the federal road companies. In addition, in order to obtain revenue for the federal government, it should consider whether the shares in its hands in the road companies should be sold to private companies up to 51 percent. I believe that this would be a very useful measure. However, a strategic part of the federal government in this society should, as already mentioned, remain. Not only with regard to the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria, but in particular with a view to managing the high-level road network as efficiently as possible would such a society benefit. Ladies and gentlemen! The present Federal Road Finance Act 1996 now also lays down the legal basis for such a development. Mr Peter, ladies and gentlemen! As you have repeatedly criticised the way in which you spoke, the contents and the package of giants – I share your view that I have no problem with saying that – I would like to point out that you have made a request, which we have followed and which, as far as I can see, has also gone through, namely that the increase in the amount of investment is to be preferred by one month in order to enable the hotel industry to complete its construction investment by the beginning of the 1996 winter season. This is, I believe, one of the very few, if not the only one, who has really influenced this huge package from Parliament. We will give our consent to the other. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e46990	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47011	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing here in the afternoon, at the end of a yet strenuous session week, a mix of different templates under the motto "Restlverwertung": What is left is still happening now – a biterl state defense, a biterl federal ministerial law, a biterl federal road financing law and, above all, the question of the vignette and the beautification, which in the last few weeks and months very much has triggered in the affected federal states, very many discussions. I would like to concentrate very much on this area, which is particularly important for the Greens. I have been following with interest that four parliamentary parties are in favour of the loophole in the high-level road network. I'm going to be this harmony – hopefully! – strongly upset. I am surprised, for various reasons, that Mr Peter is also argumenting in this direction, especially because I know him in many areas, at least in the field of economics, not so much in the field of ecology, as a very rational person. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He wants a highway to the White Rössl!]] It is not only for ecological reasons that this attitude is not understandable to me, but for economic reasons in particular, to which I go even further. Let me first, however, refer to the field of the Federal Government and the objectives in these areas from the Coalition Convention. What is particularly annoying about me in this context: The Coalition Convention states that the coalition is endeavouring to create jobs under the motto of "work by the environment" in particular in the field of ecology. It's not exactly how this is going to happen, but it's a really concrete employment programme of the Federal Government – we have been able to read it for many weeks – that 33 billion schilling is to be provided for road construction. So, if you imagine that under work through environmental protection, then you have either missed the many years of environmental discussion, or you interpret it completely differently. This is an archival method that is characterized by special inventiveness. Otherwise it will be saved at all corners and at the end of this country – and we have heard this in the last few days here in Parliament many, many hours, whether in the area of social affairs, with officials wherever, everywhere is massively saved – but suddenly we have 33 billion schilling for road construction. They also explain that this would be a major employment project, although there are not only one but many documents and studies by an unsuspecting institute, namely the Economic Research Institute, that the area of road construction is not one of those that are particularly intensive in the workplace, or that there are other areas in the construction industry that are far more relevant to the workplace, where one could actually catch two flies with one blind: namely, by investing in construction activities very likely to create jobs on the one hand, and on the other hand, to manage ecologically soundly, to create work and to carry out concrete environmental protection. I think it's a completely wrong way when you get back so much money – 33 billion schilling! – put into an outdated, traditional concept and then linked with the discussion around the vignette as if it had anything to do with ecology. We know that additional road construction produces traffic and attracts traffic. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's your opinion!]] We also know that in Austria the increase in traffic is exponential, that we have actually taken a pioneering position compared to all the other OECD countries. We can see from the OECD report of September last year that, between 1980 and 1993, there has been a traffic increase of more than 80 per cent in Austria and we are thus in the top of the OECD. This OECD report therefore recommends rethinking transport policy as a whole in order to achieve an environmentally sound and better coordinated transport policy. None of this happens, although CO2 emissions have increased by more than 20 percent especially in the field of transport due to additional transport performance in recent years. In other areas where high CO2 levels have also been emitted, as in industry, we can thank God for various investments. Transport is one of the most important environmental problems in Austria if not: high CO2 increases, still destruction of ecologically interesting areas. You want to invest 33 billion schilling in a genuine, outdated employment concept, and then by the way you sell it as if it had anything to do with ecology. This is particularly perfid, and we reject it quite massively! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In recent years, the Greens have also presented various concepts under the title "Work by the Environment", how to actually create jobs through investment, particularly in the partly very marode construction industry. A project would be the thermal insulation programme, for which there is also a study by TU Vienna, in which it can be shown that 1 700 jobs can be created per billion investment in this area. For comparison only: According to Wifo study, about 1,400 jobs are created per billion investment in road construction. In any case, this model would create 300 jobs per billion more in concrete terms, in addition to the important environmental benefits it would have, because there is a huge potential in the area of thermal insulation and house renovation, to reduce CO2 emissions and to promote energy policy. But no, here we operate with numbers, and that's why I don't understand the attitude of the Liberals. If you look at only the ASFINAG debts in Austria, they currently amount to 77.5 billion schilling. 77.5 billion schilling! It's getting so loose. Instead of considering how to reduce debt, it is said: Well, that's not so tragic!, and under the title "Lucking up in the high-level road network" it is announced to make a further 33 billion schilling available. Then we'll have over 100 billion schilling debts, but it's not supposed to be a problem. There is nothing to be seen about savings, the reasonable tax and, above all, the actual structural change at all, quite the contrary: This is the concept of the 1960s and 1970s, and it is to be regretted that you have not – at least not yet – resisted far more resistance than you have so far. But what I hope for is that by introducing the annual vignettes that you are planning here, resistance is to be mobilised. It may seem strange at first glance that greens are against a toll pickerl or against an annual vignette. It sounds so beautiful, and Member Luke has even spoken of ecological reason in this context. It actually looks tempting at first sight: One introduces an annual vignette, according to the forecasts of the Federal Government in the year 1.5 billion schilling. However, these 1.5 billion schillings are not to be used for ecological purposes, investment in the expansion of public transport, or at least for the repayment of debt or at least the interest of the high ASFINAG loans, no: The 1.5 billion are said to flow into the large pot of the 33 billion schilling that you want to spend on further road construction in this country. Our first major criticism is of course that it has nothing to do with ecology and nothing at all with cost truth when you introduce an annual vignette and use the money not for ecological measures, especially for the expansion of public transport, but again for the construction of roads. This is completely absurd and, of course, ecologically unfair. The second point, which is against, is, of course, that this vignette is more animated for multi-driving than for less driving, because more costs are being incurred. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This is what you want!]] Of course, the one who rides a lot is rewarded. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Give the reason for this!]] The reason is quite simple: This is just as if I buy an annual ticket from the Vienna transport companies: Of course, she'll get the cheaper the more I drive. If I have an annual ticket – I have one, I don't own a car – it logically becomes cheaper, the more I use public transport. That's a good thing! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Then you go back and forth by metro more often because it's cheaper?]] [[Further calls.]] What do you mean, I have to have a lot of time if I don't have a car? – Excuse me, but also as a busy person, you can organize your day relatively rationally without a car; I am even faster often. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So if you have such a toll pickerl, you'll be animated to finally take advantage of this pickerl: Now I already have it, I have to pay it, now I'm going to drive it all the more. – This has been demonstrated accordingly in other countries. So, of course, such a pickerl leads to multiples! [[Prolonged calls.]] I see. As soon as it comes to driving, there are a lot of emotions, and everyone feels on the slips, but of course this motorway vignette does not at all correspond to the polluter principle. Not at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not dependent on driving performance, it rewards multi-drivers and punishes those who actually drive very little by car who are trying to drive very much by public transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] So what will those do? What's going to be Mr. Kukacka, the chief driver of the nation, and many others might do with him? – You will consider how you can handle this motorway vignette if you have to pay, but perhaps not so much. You will, of course, go into a toll escape. The forecast is that there will be a shift from the high-level roads to the federal roads. Currently forecast are 10 to 20 percent shift due to the vignette from highways to federal roads. This is also, of course, an increase in the accident rate. There are also forecasts: 1 to 2 percent increase in accidents on federal roads precisely due to this toll flight. And it is not so, so we would have invented it now and as if there were no such thing; You experience it in Tirol! If Mr. Lukesch here speaks of how great and important and great this vignette is, I wonder where and who he spoke to in his federal state. That's exactly what we're going to experience right now: As a result of the mutilation in certain sub-areas, of course, there is an escape to the Federal Road. If you talk to the inhabitants in some communities there, they will confirm this to you. That's why there's massive resistance there, and it's going to increase. Therefore, there is the hope that you will get away from this vignette very quickly, towards an actual driving power-dependent charge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The next criticism is, of course, that you only catch the cars, but the trucks over 12 tons, which are a huge burden in the transit communautaires. We all know, of course, that we are dealing with the area – and the Minister, of course, too – the removal of the Road Costs Directive due to the ECJ judgment. Minister! What we ask of you here is, of course, that the Federal Government is strong in favour of a road cost directive at European level, which at last includes the external costs produced here, so that there is at least a small step towards cost truth, particularly in the truck sector, at European level, so that what has already been done in Austria – that is, this about 70 000 S – is so similarly reintroduced by the new road cost directive. A problem we still have: In addition to the fact that the motorway vignette really favours the many drivers that it is not dependent on driving power, that it induces drivers to use the vignette so properly that the money is used for the gap, so that even more traffic is produced, even more CO2 is emitted, more accidents occur and even more economic costs arise, then you have to make a savings package, because the cost of health will then increase again due to enormously high transport performance. This is not a prognosis made by any environmentalists, but these are hand-resistant figures that reality has already produced in recent years. There are many institutes – whether that is the studies prepared by the different university institutions by the Wifo – which is now a criticism that is practiced by all sides. This has apparently not had any effect on the Federal Government at all. I have just mentioned the enormous ASFINAG debt of 77.5 billion schilling. The interest and repayment payments for the reduction of the ASFINAG debt will burden the budget with about 10 billion schilling annually in the next few years. 10 billion schilling is the burden only of the repayment payments and the interest rate for the removal of these ASFINAG debts! I really wonder what you mean if you want to continue using the 1.5 billion - compared to the 10 billion really a small amount - for the so-called gap. Obviously, there is not only a four-party consensus here on the B 301 – that is to say, the southern one – but also the northern one seems to be no longer a topic of discussion at all. You have all of these projects in your drawers and want to go through them in the next few years. They will certainly experience massive resistance to the green and massive resistance of the citizens' initiatives there. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What about the South motorway?]] If they ask me, I have to say, I am against the fact that a section of the motorway will be built somewhere else. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What are you doing with the trailers?]] I do not think – the reality has proved this – that there is a relief for the many-quenched people with the construction of a motorway. We have experienced this – you will experience it very much through the Vignette, because it will lead to toll flight, which will cause enormous burden on the federal road – that within a few years – if you are now taking ten years as a planning period for example – within ten years the same density of traffic will prevail in the previously so burdened and recently relieved local communities. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One last point: It was noted a few times: The planned road pricing, which the Federal Government intends to introduce from 1998 on, may not be so fast. In Austria, it is almost tradition that a provisorium becomes a permanent solution. At the moment, I cannot see how you want to meet this timetable and come to a road pricing during 1998. It is also important for us in this context that the issue of data protection is clarified. We therefore propose a truly falsifying and performance-dependent kilometre, which would be technically possible, which would really lead to the application of the 'polluter pays' principle and to a real step towards cost-truth. There are not only precise, concrete ideas of the Greens, but of many environmental organisations, so that, after so many years of discussion, a certain degree of cost-truth can finally be achieved in this area. I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Liberals. It is about, as honourable Member Peter has already mentioned, that in the field of architects the discussion has long been launched and has already been signalled more or less by the former Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel to change responsibility for this area. In short: The responsibility is to be transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Science. The reason for this is also convincing for us, since architects in particular have a certain artistic mission and there has obviously been great problems in the last few years in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The uncanny discussion about the so-called industrial architects has shown that we are not giving a good figure in the European area either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Greens will be happy to support this Liberal amendment. We also believe that the responsibility for civil engineers, i.e. architects and engineering consultants, would be better abolished in the Ministry of Science. Perhaps there is a sudden understanding of the coalition parties in this small area. Although this is a detail, it would be an important measure if in the future there were to be a lot of construction and investment in billions – not only in road construction, but also in construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47191	The next speaker is Mrs Frieser. - She has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47213	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will be happy to give my consent to the Federal Road Finance Act under the Structural Adjustment Act. [[Abg. Wabl: You always agree!]] I believe that the adoption of this law will finally put an end to a bizarre discussion about the toll pickerl. [[Abg. Wabl: You always agree, and then you lament the flood of law! Say no!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Langthaler, I am coming to speak briefly on your comments. In part, you, Mr Peter, have made a curious contribution. In fact, I appreciate you as very serious, very competent colleagues, but this time you have caused me to smile very often. Mrs Langthaler! Their argument that the Vignette is causing drivers to drive even more on the motorways is really part of the Scurricular Cabinet. I cannot imagine that the drivers are only driving up and down the motorway because of the vignette. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Get up and don't go down, they stay up!]] Mr. Wabl! I would like to tell you something about the calculation of car costs, but this is not due to the speaking time now, just so much: The vignette is a fixed-cost component, and the variable costs are those that animated or less animated to drive. That's the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I really only understand the excitement of this toll-vignette as a storm in the water glass, when one considers that in neighbouring countries – and that has already been mentioned – such as Italy, Hungary, the Czech Republic, France and Spain, the motorway toll is a matter of course. None of the Austrians would stop this toll abroad from spending its vacation there or enjoying its shopping tourism there and spending billions. Ladies and gentlemen! But I also have a very little understanding of the objections of the Vienna regarding the south-east tangents. We Steirer have been paying an internal toll since 1978, namely for the Gleinalm tunnel. I therefore see no argument whatsoever as to why Vienna should be freed just for its south-east tangents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the revenue from the motorway vignette can also be used to finance important projects. Mrs Rossmann! Ask your colleagues from the Freedom Party, your party keeper, whether the motorway toad in Italy prevents him from going to Venice or Turin to enjoy the delicious barolo there. Ask him a question! There he pays more for a trip than for the whole year in Austria. That's not an argument at all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The revenue from the motorway vignette is used to implement important construction projects, especially in Styria. I am thinking of the Semmering section, of the extension of the South motorway around Waltersdorf and to the second Plabuschtunnel tube. But there are other construction projects, such as the passing of Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: All with 1.5 billion schilling?]] In this respect, the construction projects implemented by these revenues are important not only for Styria, but also for the whole of southern Austria, namely also for the Carinthia and the Burgenländer. I welcome these projects and, of course, thank the Federal Minister for favouring, in particular, the south of Austria. This benefit is particularly important for Austria's economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47333	Next speaker: Mr Ofner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47355	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would rather have seen the Minister of Defence instead of the Minister of Defence present here, or at least in addition to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Ditz, but he is not here – you can't do anything, the government is represented. We wanted to introduce a few corset stickers to the Minister of Defence in the matter of army news, but I assume that it will be directed to him that we have taken action in this direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you for the good applause, my own group. I have the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" in my hand today. In this, the Exjustice Speaker Graff of the ÖVP expresses himself to the problem that my previous speaker Scheibner has addressed, as follows: The VP idea of converting the Stapo into a constitutional protection is completely unthinkable. Without control, the new organization could "spit" unblemished citizens and parties – under quotation marks. However, the SP requirement that the army intelligence services "integrate permeable and disputed security devices" in the – quotation signs – is closed is even more adventurous. His appeal is addressed to all five parliamentary groups. I know that Graff is no longer a Member, but I have the impression that he still has something to say. In this context, it appeals to all political groups. Indeed, what threatens the Republic and its citizens is not a bagatelle. It is hardly any more to be surpassed by thunderous threat, and one has tried to think of Orwell's "1984", which is already outdated and threatens to be forgotten. Just imagine the following: In one hand the police as armed executive body, the Gendarmerie as an armed executive body, the border guard force – if it were actually to come to it in the intended form – as an armed executive body, as well – according to the notions of the Lord about these armed forces, the Interior Minister One – also instead of the military under the Minister of Defense, a police "with some heavy weapons", as he called it. Then you will find yourself in one hand: Police normal, police "with some heavy weapons" instead of the military, the Gendarmerie and the border guard. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's all there was once!]] In this concentration, I don't remember that, maybe you'll tell us in your speech. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In one of the most horrendous times of the century, there was that!]] I don't think so, even there it was divided, the names fall into my name, which might be said afterwards; I thought about it. Now we should also come to the one secret service that is available in this very hand, to the State Police, a second one, namely the Army News Office, to unite in one hand all that is available in this sector in the Republic! And there the opinions disperse, who is then to be out of one and the same party of this powerful, this overpowering exponent. Is it the Minister of the Interior? It's one of them, or is it supposed to be the Federal Chancellor? The demands of the Klubobmann Kostelka go to the Bundeskanzleramt to settle this fullness of power, all that there is in secret services, services to secret police in Austria. But I can remind you that the Minister is one of the ministers of the Interior, who – in order to express it carefully – is in the domestic political scene in Austria by no means out of dispute, and that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic – which is exactly what will and will probably always be – is, at least, the most powerful party. That means: A settlement in the case of a minister of the interior or the chairman of the strongest and most powerful party! And all this in combination with two instruments, which I am in favour of at least until now, for which I have been introduced, at least so far: the so-called noise attack and the grid attack! And there's an interesting turn to see: While there has recently been a consensus that control of the use and execution of the noise attack should be established in qualified judicial units, it is now heard that the step should go towards policy – first of all to the Minister of Justice. But even if the Minister of Justice is currently partyless, he is a politician, and who knows who will be the next Minister of Justice! That is to say, at least the step of judges, that is, from highly qualified officials, to politicians; first, to the Minister of Justice, perhaps – as a next step – to the Minister of the Interior, perhaps – as the next step – to the Federal Chancellor. When I look at what it is about the Rasterfachung – including – about data from the health life of each individual, to note his political views, to read his family problems, all this is to be read in the relevant literature, to consider his sexual inclinations, if I then consider that all this, from the qualified civil servant area, should get away from the judge's area, and come into one hand, into a political hand, into the hand of a man or woman – whether it be the Interior Minister, whether it be the Federal Chancellor, at the same time party leader of the mostly strongest party – namely police, Gendarmerie, border guard, the special police, which is then to be the substitute for the army, the State Police, the Army News Office – equipped with noise attack, equipped with grid fencing; everything not under judicial control, but under political control – then I get the horror, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then I could understand that there are people who say: I would rather pack my suitcases and go to a country where I must be less afraid of becoming a subject of politically motivated or at least politically covered intrusions! I should also like to remind you that, not only in Austria, it is a good tradition to try to settle the forces of the police, on the one hand, and the military forces, on the other, not in one hand, but in two different areas of competence. If it goes, at least it must be so that the two representatives do not belong to one and the same party. That means, reversed: If there are not monocolored governments in which this is impossible – with monocolored governments at least in the hands of two ministers – in other words, with coalition governments: the one armed group in the hands of one government party and the other in the hands of the other. These are all self-evident, and it is surprising that four years before the turn of the millennium into the third millennium, one must worry about these problems at all! But the occasion is given, the demands are presented, not only by one, but also by the clubman of the Social Democratic Party. The demands – perhaps initially thought of as an experimental balloon; but such a thing can quickly become serious – would mean that everything that in Austria is entitled to carry weapons – if one looks away from the hunters for example – all that is entitled to act in secret service in Austria, strengthened by the gross methods of noise attack and grid arrest – not under judicial but under its own political control, is united in a political hand, perhaps even in the hand of a single human being. You're gonna be gay, ladies and gentlemen! What a mental attitude – this question I may raise – is that, of what a misdemeanor of democracy it is when one raises demands in this direction! I can only see the opportunity to say: Be the beginnings, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47420	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47441	Mr President. High house! Allow me to speak now, since the biggest critics of the toll concept are now in the hall and it is essential and important to welcome this... 75 percent, honourable Member, welcome the introduction of the vignette. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How did you get that?]] You should know the relevant ÖAMTC surveys. This shows that people actually have a very different feeling than some... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who is close to the ÖAMTC? This is a party organisation of the ÖVP!]] This is not a political question, but it simply shows that people recognize that the good road must be something worth us and that the vignette is a reasonable, easily manageable solution, which also ensures that not only domestics but also foreigners pay. That's welcome – that's quite clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But only in transit!]] That is why I am firmly convinced that there will not be an uprising in connection with the vignette. Mrs Langthaler! You will not succeed in fighting, so to speak, the reason and the logic of the population. I think... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: They will all have no money and avoid to the federal road!]] A call back, honourable Member: They will avoid even more if we choose those concepts that have been proposed here, namely the immediate introduction of an electronic road pricing, where perhaps 30 to 50 sizes are calculated per kilometer. Please, this is a massive shift towards side roads I would never and never make. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: This is a weak argument!]] I would even like to say: I think we should discuss a little more thoroughly, Mr Peter. They have really presented words here, but in themselves completely contradictory – illogical and contradictory. On the one hand, you have argued that it is a cleanerry, that not all roads are ready, and on the other hand, we should re-establish the use of all taxes. I do not think this is reasonable because I believe there are many tasks in the public sector that need to be fulfilled, and the priorities must always be balanced. But I think it is essential that those who cause the costs also contribute to these costs. And this is happening with the current toll financing law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From my experience, I tell you, the concept I have chosen, I have thought very carefully. I broke my head, we did extensive studies. You can't just say: He didn't think of anything, so he quickly grabbed the vignette. I think it is important that we take three steps here. Short-term: Introducing a vignette, at the same time launching a road pricing for the truck, because we believe that we are for the truck with limited number of this concept until 1. 1. In 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States But I also say quite honestly to you: We have to work very hard and very well to keep this schedule. We need to develop logistics – so far we do not even have the electronics for the eco-points. The same electronic device must, of course, also be justified for the toll-booking. It must be pointed out that at the same time it must be ensured that not all electronic devices can be used. Building measures must therefore also be put in place, and the persecution must be ensured. These are measures that require time and the step-by-step logical implementation. Therefore, this concept cannot be realized in a shorter period of time. That is why this concept has to be preceded, and I see it as positive that we are no longer just talking, but at last starting with concrete actions and steps. [[Abg. May. Peter: What did you do?]] Specific actions and steps, Mr Peter, mean to me that you can forget the road pricing for the passenger car for the next six or seven years. It's not practicable. First of all, we must provide intermediate services, we must coordinate with the countries where toll stations are being built. [[Abg. May. Peter: There is already this in France!]] You'll see, it'll be an honest but tough process. I hope that we can solve the problems of data protection by then, that we will have a better technique and that we will be able to implement this concept, so to speak, in the year 2000 and x. Until then, the vignette is the best provisorium there is. We should be glad that we are now introducing it because it is a reasonable solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You say that you would not have done all this, you would of course have, because you are wise, built much faster, and at the same time you would, of course, have discounted the prices of petrol that no one is gasing abroad. Do you know what you had of it? – A huge deficit in the budget and no construction investment, one has to say quite clearly. Your steps just don't fit together, you criticize different, only overall makes little sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] They say we should ask for the same price as Slovenia so that no one can tank there. If we do so, we will have less revenue through the mineral oil tax, then we will, as a whole, achieve a fall in prices and thus also taxes, and this will result in an even greater hole in the budget, because everything is currently having an impact on the budget. In other words, I think your logic was simply wrong in this regard, and You should take note of this. [[Abg. May. Peter: You have been responsible for ten years!]] Second point: I do not think that this is a threat to tourism. I really think it is a bit cool to say that 20 Mark the German guests, even the car drivers will stop using our motorways. They can also be sure that distribution is organized in such a way that sales are already possible in Germany. This is designed in such a way that there is certainly no danger of relapse. But if the Austrian tourism industry is smart, it can even use this discussion to make offensive advertising for Austria. I would like to point out that the start of Carinthia has not become more expensive, but because of the combipackvignette even cheaper, because it has been paid 180 or 190 s up to now, and in the future it will be paid for this vignette 350 S. I do not think we can simply argue on a flat-rate basis, but it has really been tried to choose an appropriate system for Austria to ensure that, in a difficult budgetary situation, we can also make urgently necessary gaps. Now I come to the main criticism of Mrs Langthaler: 30 billion schilling costs, and for that you have money?- Oh, my God! . It is very important to me to finally come to an honest discussion in Austria that, if road projects are not built, it is not financing, but that there is a different set of priorities, which can be done by the citizen in the process. I personally believe, however, that the fast gap between the south motorway is absolutely necessary. I also believe that there are ecological reasons for bypassing. If you look around in Landeck, you will see that tourism requires it and the citizens want to get around. And anyone who says no to finance here must provide alternative funding. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, I do not understand why the Greens reject a toll financing concept, which actually goes in its direction in three steps, tel quel. If you, Mrs Langthaler, argue that the people will really take advantage of the 550 s for days on the highways, then I must say that I think people are smarter than you believe. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: I didn't say that!]] They could just as well – I can't prove it – form driving communities and say that we only need one car, so drive cheaper, and the loads don't occur. There have also been initial studies, which suggest that the southeast tangents are less used and that some people are not going to go shopping. I can't check all of this. But I believe that a first emphasis will be put in the right direction. Further point – and do here You of the Austrian Federal Government unjustly –: We cannot lift the truck vignette over 12 tonnes, because we have the road transport contribution, and it is linked to the Road Costs Directive, but at the same time we have raised the Brenner toll twice, which is a problem with the EU which I do not overdramatize, in order to take account of environmental aspects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler]] Furthermore, I am very pleased with this letter of formal notice, there is the opportunity – and we will take it – to point out that, in reality, a new road cost directive is urgently needed for Europe, a road cost directive which not only focuses on costs but also allows higher tariffs for sensitive regions and also takes environmental aspects into account. We will take advantage of this very challenge to implement a new policy here when it comes to Europe. It is typical for Austria that you are always excited when you get a letter from Brussels. I do not think the excitement is necessary; rather, we will argue and hope that as a new member with ally we will carry out our demands. Here you will surely walk in open doors with us. I wanted to say that on the individual points. It is clear, of course, that this concept must in the long term also contribute to the reduction of debt and to the repayment of debt. I do not think that we should re-establish our commitments and install all the money we have, so to speak. I'm rather concerned to say: Okay, there are these projects – high-level road network – in the order of 33 billion. Now comes the Moment of Truth: It is about which projects we want to implement together with the citizen. These are to be financed, and the rest will certainly also be used to repay debts. In this way, this concept, which is certainly a reform measure when it is fully grasping – and it is taking full advantage of the years – is also an essential and lasting contribution to the reorganisation of the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47629	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47650	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has explained the three steps that are necessary: the Vignette, the road toll and road pricing. Mrs Langthaler, you know very well and have also mentioned this in your speech that this should be done together. Of course, we are trying to solve this together and in the European sense. If you just consider, ladies and gentlemen, that we have about 1 400 kilometres of motorway and 400 kilometres of motorways – France as an example has 6 000 kilometres of motorways – then the systems must also be electronically harmonised and so on. What bothered me particularly, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs. Langthaler – where the Greens always think they wanted to solve everything together – said in an additional statement that the conflicts were pre-programmed. What does that mean? – This means again occupations, demonstrations, links to bridges, prevention of projects et cetera. She is always talking about common activities, and then she says that the conflicts have been preprogrammed. The Federal Minister has already said: On the one hand, we must save, but on the other hand we must make important investments in the future, namely in the future of infrastructure. There is also a need to make clear and clear use of new revenue, such as the toll to be able to carry out these large investments contained in the structural adjustment laws. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The "News" states that the Federal Government will invest 245 billion schilling in the future in the coming years: Waste incineration 15 billion, road construction around 30 billion and rail investment 207 billion. If one follows the large-scale plans on railway and road construction, then one can say that this is a useful set-up of 25 projects. I think it is important that these projects will help the Austrian economy to secure the future. Mr Van der Bellen also says in this article that conflicts have been pre-programmed. Mr. Van der Bellen! You did not say this in your speech, but you said that in this article in "News". Only the question must be asked if one cannot better resolve the conflicts together, because the construction workers, the masons, the lockers, the miners, the engineers cannot live from the conflicts, but then they must live in unemployment. With these conflicts that you will produce again, the economic location of Austria will certainly not be secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Langthaler has also mentioned the effects of employment. When you look at this: Create railway investments according to Wifo study 19 200 jobs, housing promotion: 3 750 jobs, BIG offensive included in these programmes, road construction: 1 800 jobs, then we have to say that we have a good programme. I know that, on the one hand, we should cover the cost of road transport – we have not yet reached the cost point – but these measures are used to finance these construction projects. It cannot be that Austria is Europe's exhaust. If someone from abroad wants to use Austria's motorways, then he has to pay for it, because the transitlawine continues to roll. The Dr. Max-Henry study I have been studying here shows how many foreign cars transit Austria every year. The figures are from 1993. Back then, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, there were 203 million arriving people from abroad, 192 million of them on the road, 30 million with buses and 162 million with cars. This means that in 1993 77 million foreign cars arrived in Austria. This is a considerable sum, which must also be said in all clarity. It has already been pointed out several times today by this pult that no one complains that toll must be paid in Italy, that no one is upset that toll must be paid in Spain and France. I therefore believe that this step today is the first step in the right direction. I believe that this step will stimulate billions of investment in the construction industry. For me, as Lower Austrian Members, it is important that 10 billion are fixed for road construction in Lower Austria, also for the detour of Hospital am Semmering and for the Semmering road tunnel, i.e. the S 6. Mr Pröll said he meant the railway tunnel. Yesterday, Mr. Haider – he's sitting here again – said that tunnels are being built, and there are mainly machines in use. Of course, machines are in use, but one must say that Semmering, Dr. Haider, experiences a renaissance in tourism. If you lived there like me, you'd say: There's something we need to do, because every Saturday, a Tatzelworm with a length of 30 to 40 kilometres moves over the Semmering. These are traffic jams of two to three hours. I am glad that the Federal Minister has said in the Committee on Budgets that this year the approach to Hospital will start, that the search tunnels will be made, and that the timetable for the construction of the Semmering Tunnel will be set for three and a half years. Mr Haider! You said yesterday, in an actual correction, what Mrs Reitsamer said, that you did not vote. Haider's statements on economic and social policy: Haider argues in favour of thinking about the sensible abandonment of social services. - APA of 15. ==References== I'm just saying it to get back to the record. You also said, Mr Haider: Workers will also contribute to solving the problems: temporary reduction of holiday entitlements, reduction of unemployment benefit, temporary retirement of the second year. Hair literally: We're not in a slaring country! - APA of 15. ==References== Thirdly, Haider is in favour of a reconstruction of the social state. It would be a false social policy. Benefits would be created, for which there would be no financial cover: second year of karenz – and so on. Dr. Haider! I did not save you this because you tried yesterday with an actual correction to move the date limits here. Last point. To sum up, I think it can be said that this Federal Government has set in motion a huge economic and export offensive next to saving. Not healthy, not sick people, but optimism is needed for the economic location of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47734	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Freshener. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47756	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to refer to the part of the Structural Adjustment Act, which refers to the Wehrgesetz. First of all, because I think it is a typical example of how a very important and fundamental matter is to be pushed over the table in a package with other materials in the course of the budget discussion. I think that this procedure is absolutely essential and false, and necessary because the budgetary implications of this law are not at all in relation to other budgetary decisions made during one year. The money that is being moved there, also within the framework of the defence budget, is very, very low. And that is why there is no need to push this question over the stage now in connection with the budget. Of course, the content is the more weighty. Why? Because with these changes in the military law, our military system will be substantially changed, if not even – as the military associations have very clearly accused – the military system is effectively removed by these measures. [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] It seems that we have had bad experiences with the scheme for six months plus a month of exercise – we will perhaps discuss this next week too – but it is now apparent that the complete opening of the free will, whether the basic military servant is being trained for a military structure and is later transferred to it or will be a minister, whether we continue in the military system or not, reality and practice. And this is absolutely a rejection in this form. Not that I think we should talk about the military system. I believe that this Republic is saving itself a real security policy debate with the consequences for the military sector. This begins with the refusal of the discussion on neutrality. And we are likely to come to the conclusion very soon that everything we have in this area in military structures must be considered very quickly, very fundamentally. But now would simply have been the time to hold this principle debate and then to draw the corresponding consequences. This does not happen, instead, by the way, a piece of the military system is now left, although – and this is the decisive one – our federal constitution still includes the military system as a program. Even the recent 1996 Declaration of Government still includes the creation of incentives for the extension of the military system. Here you can already see the complete futility of the discussion as a result of the legislative measures. And therefore, of course, we will not agree with that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A second point which plays a major role in this debate from the current point of view is the treatment of the State Police and the Army News Office. I really don't understand why all things that have to do with security and sensitive areas of security are being discussed in such an absurd way. To put together the idea of the clubman Kostelka, the army news office and the Stapo, it can only be said that either this was a completely unthinking and uncomplicated statement to the journalists, or one simply wants to weld two devices that have nothing to do with each other at all. He obviously did not understand what the news office was doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] It has been so colported and has not been taken back to the present day. The news office is responsible for the investigation and analysis of the international security situation – this has nothing to do with the tasks of the Stapo at all. And if you just want to sum up these two devices, then only nonsense comes out. This must be said quite openly about this statement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to address Mr Ofner in this connection. With regard to the problem of noise attack and grid arrest, he has shown a growing sensitivity in his speech, and I would like to expressly welcome it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the whole group!]] I would also like to welcome this, because it is really important for me to counter this threatening attack on the fundamental legal situation of our Republic. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You were always the hardliner with us!]] And anyone who, perhaps also through the recent practical examples, now slowly comes up with something really threatening, which is not funny, I would like to invite to continue this course. However, I would also like to say in this context that there were also ideas from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to put together the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] That's not from Mr. Ofner, I admit that honestly. I know that the division of power is his heart. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Justice and Home Affairs Not!]] If this idea has been rejected, I am delighted because I am not here to rejoice in false things. If that's been done out of the world, it's fine. It is precisely this example that we note how concentration of power could become dangerous, and that is why such ideas should be rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Friedhelm! However, this is true in Switzerland and Norway, for example!]] It may be. But from the Austrian experience, which is not foreign to you, I would say that this would be a step in the wrong direction in our country. Whoever is opposed to these concentrations of power and mergers is certainly on the right path, especially as regards Austria. I would just like to say to the motion for a resolution that it seems completely in order in itself, but there is a passage in it which I consider strange for parliamentary reasons. If, unfortunately, Parliament – I am not here now – calls on the Minister of Defence to ensure more parliamentary control, that is somehow the wrong address. This passage is therefore misunderstood or incorrect, and we will therefore be critical of it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Misunderstandable! I'm changing!]] Finally, I mean: These areas of the Structural Adjustment Act also clearly show that many serious things have been postponed for years, such as the security debate in Austria and its impact on the military apparatus. And Husch-Puff actions such as these are untimely, in terms of content wrong and therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47886	The next speaker is Dr. Stadler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e47907	Mr President. High house! Let me start with a quote from today's "standard" where it literally means: "The SPÖ managing director has lists of those teachers and university professors who suspect the party youth in the dark circle of right-wing extremism." As a party youth, the action of critical students, AKS, the trade union youth, the socialist youth, SJ, and the Association of Socialist Students, VSStÖ. And those who have been noticed will be quoted literally: " among other things, Wilhelm Brauneder, the Third President of the National Council, according to VSstÖ, are known", but also the well-known sociologist Roland Girtler. It is called ‘Aula’ author (...) In addition, prominently mentions: Friedrich Romig, lecturer of economic theory and politics. The lecturer is also consultant to St. Pöltner archbishop Kurt Krenn" – he is not yet, but he may be – "and author in the yearbooks of the Freedom Education Work." And finally he is accused of being against abortion. That is why he has noticed, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, as well as the Third President of the National Council. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is like in the GDR!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: These are Stasi methods!]] These are Stasi methods, I underline that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are methods, ladies and gentlemen, as they were valid in the GDR. These are methods of family disability. [[Abg. Koppler: This is what the "standard" writes!]] These are methods of family terrorism, a thickness of opinion, and a disability of opinion, which allows only more, which is considered to be acceptable in red party centres. Everything else is striking, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: This is what the "standard" writes!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! It is particularly unfortunate for you to be a block party for this Altstasi party using these stasi methods. It is unfortunate that you have become "block-flutes", as in the GDR the so-called conservative parties within the framework of the SED, for this type of family terrorism, family pangs, and opinion-terrorism according to the political correctness brand Brigitte Ederer. [[Abg. Koppler: This is what the "standard" writes!]] This is the background in which we have to fear a GDR-Stasi-Ministry under the Minister Caspar of One, a GDR-Stasi-Ministry where the State Police, called Stapo, with the EBT to the special order of the Minister, who does not work in the back and front, but where hand-picked socialists come, are to be combined with the Army News Office and with the Defense Office. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's incredible! Unheard of!]] Finally, the whole federal army is to be dissolved so that, as it were, the People's Police, according to the pattern of the GDR, is freed by the Minister of the Interior and the party grandeurs of the Socialist Party of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Stop yelling! Becoming You're a little more sensitive! Don't see that this is the last blows of a system that is understood in resignation, as was the case with the GDR at that time!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Please note that you can't secure your majority and your political power by means of police-state methods and by polluting the citizens of that country! They should once again rely on democracy and on democratic discourse and on tolerance, even in the spiritual sense, even if it is not socialist ideas that allow other people to represent themselves in their private and public spheres, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] Madam President, Hostasch! On you and your dealings I come to speak during the speech. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I am still talking about you and your dealings in the course of the speech, because the handling is not so far away from the obscene way in which the Minister of the Interior, who would like to see himself as the Minister of State as the GDR Minister of State, has worked, and continues to practice, this minister, who in the future intends to ensure with instructions what he does not achieve by law, to exert pressure on his officials, even with illegal instructions, to ensure that the ideology of the SPÖ is carried out in the ministries and in the offices, but no longer in the law. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He hurts you!]] He has even gone on to admit to the public that he wants to ensure with instructions that his political ideology is implemented and that the law no longer has to be observed by officials in that country. This is to be read in the "profile". The Minister of the Interior has not demented this to this day. And whoever knows this Minister of the Interior knows what this country is threatening, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The Minister of the Interior is unpleasant to you!]] We have an interior minister who has the best contacts with the PKK how we have the GDR State Security – best contacts! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It's absurd!]] Mr Kiss has quite rightly demanded that this Minister of the Interior should resign that this Minister of the Interior no longer have to be in the government. However, that was three days before the election. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiss pointed out quite correctly that the Minister of the Interior – once again we are on the instructions – is concerned with the fact that a terrorist organisation of foreign countries in Austria is allowed to act completely inconspicuously in the neighbouring state of Germany of the German Federal Government, led by the Chancellor Kohl and Foreign Minister Kinkel: Now there will be terror against the Federal Republic of Germany! This terrorist organisation may develop its area of action as a result of an illegal order in Austria. This terrorist organisation enjoys the special protection of the Minister of State for State Security in Spee, Minister of the Interior Caspar One. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a scandal of the same kind, which does not mean anything but that Parliament and the sensitized public are massively opposed to an interior minister, who now also wants to involve the military services in his Ministry of the Interior. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This Minister of the Interior is dealing, Madam President Hostasch, with the PKK administration, which was also the lawyer of Haydar Kilic, against which was established in connection with Ebergassing, which stated to the public that he should have organized a perpetrator for the Minister of the Interior. Because the Minister of the Interior had problems because of his "TATblatt" donation, the public should have been presented with a culprit. These perpetrators should have organized no less than Mr. Dr. Prader, a Green-Mandatar, a representative in whose society the President of Hostasch has already found himself. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: All the rules! Incredible!]] With this lawyer Prader, the Minister of the Interior continues to be the friendliest and most confidential to this day, and the state police are still guarding to ensure that these meetings are really shielded by the public. In fact, everyone knows what a dangerous man and what scene is behind the so-called lawyer. But the Minister of the Interior has no fear of touching this scene at all – quite the contrary! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] It not only enjoys its special protection, but also feels comfortable in this scene. He loves to be the star there. He loves to find his ideology there, with communists, left-wings, left-wings and the like, more of strange elements that are responsible for crime crimes in this country, as we now know, up to bomb attacks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For years this Minister of the Interior has explained to the House, the public, that all the bombings of the past months and years have a very clear right-wing background, and the right-wing extreme background of course leads linear – how could it be different?, three times you can guess – to the Dr. Jörg Haider. That's perfectly clear. That was the sensational knowledge of the Ministry of the Interior so far. The whole public was astounded to be able to read that the Minister of the Interior said literally: And now you can open your eyes even further and say: It may also have been very flawed by books of this entire nationalist-historical schmarren, which appears in the confessional letters, in order to serve as a covert of the perpetrator. Everything is possible. You can forget all the Nazi marches. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: On the matter! That's not for discussion!]] The Minister of the Interior Caspar of One, that Minister of the Interior with a state police that is supposed to be one of the best, with a special unit EBT, this Minister of the Interior has kept the public to fool for years. [[Call the SPÖ:For business! On the matter!]] And now that it can no longer be hidden, now he must admit that he has been in the wrong direction for years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He pointed out in the wrong direction how the Director-General for Public Security admitted to the public in March 1995, such as that of the Director-General for Public Security on 12 March 1995. January this year had to admit... [[Abg. Dietachmayr: The Interior Minister is not here! He can't defend himself! That's unfair!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There is no one to prevent the Minister of the Interior from coming here, Mr. Cot!]] Do you want to get the Interior Minister? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Here is Parliament and not the government office! Here are the Members and not the Ministers.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't have a democratic attitude at all!]] [[Further calls between the representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I already understand that. I understand that you are upset. I know you're uncomfortable. I know it is unpleasant for you to tell you what kind of subject you have in this government. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: A scandal! You're a lousy man!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] I know that it is unpleasant for you to hear why we are against the fact that this minister should also be given military intelligence services under his guise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: An undisciplined lumber you are!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Take it back immediately!]] [[Further strong calls between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're going to have this minister...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48313	Ladies and gentlemen! I have three findings. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of SPÖ) You want to cover terrorism! First, you break democracy, and then you want to cover terrorism!]] The first point is that in the course of this speech there have been expressions which I have mentioned that I am going to have the Stenographical Protocol come and the question of whether they are all correct is not decided by Dr. Haider but by the President. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are all correct!]] And because of this finding, it is also decided on calls for order. Secondly, What the Calls Are "On the matter!" It is true that this last consultative group concerns the so-called other groups and groups which have not yet been discussed, and after the debate has been held in such a way that the various issues have been approved, I shall continue this discussion in the same sense. As far as the third is concerned, I have to repeat with all the emphasis what I said yesterday to Mrs Pittermann, which is addressed to all groups, namely that we are harming Parliament if we are not able to conduct the discourse in a way which it should be, without prejudice to the question of the granting of a call for order under the Stenographical Protocol. - Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48370	Mr President. High house! I notice the excitement with the Socialists, if one expects them to know in what environment an interior minister is trying to get the army services under his control, and if one considers to them what attitude her own Federal Managing Director – rereadable in an Austrian daily today – is the best, ladies and gentlemen, then of course the comrades are right to be angry. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Family terrorism!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also significant that they then leave the house. You don't want to know what's happening in this country, Hohes Haus! However, they will not be able to avoid taking a position on the events. It will also prove the drama of the next few months, because things are no longer to be covered, that the Director-General for Public Security was already right in January when he literally said – I quote – that: "That's where we've been put." – The question is whether there has been a political allocation. The Commission's proposal Press: Who? – Answer: "Media, the public and politicians have put us in. We could not have said unpunished in January 1994: These were not neonazis, at least not such as they are common in the VAPO. If I had said that, I would have been executed publicly. We've been pushed in there." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who said that?]] The Director-General for Public Security! One of the most important officials in this Republic, the most important officials of the Ministry of the Interior, says that the state apparatus, at least in the Ministry of the Interior, does not work. And now the Minister of the Interior wants to register another state apparatus, so that it does not work and can be used politically, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] His own state police officers are now writing books in which they complain that the so-called left-wing forces... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But novice is novotny! He looks in at the door!]] Close the door if you're not interested! I would've believed you weren't interested! I do not know why the whole group is outside! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: It pulls! Close the door!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Their own state politicians are already writing books and complaining that political pressure in the Bombencausa was very great. – I quote literally: "The last criminal officer knew where to look for the perpetrators." – This is to be read on page 135 of the book of State politician Erwin Kemper, who is a single call for help to the Austrian public and thus also to this House to ensure order in the State Police and not to give the Minister of the Interior more instruments at hand! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the daily newspapers it was to be read that Austria had been deliberately demolded by – so literally – "left-wing progressive politicians". ==References====External links== March of this year. I quote on – this is to be read in the same newspaper of 25. March –: "Frustrated bombers claim that their investigations after the Oberwart attack – the most cruel attack of the Second Republic – have been "impeded and politically controlled." Ladies and gentlemen! This is a scandal of the same kind, but it has not led to a cry by the Socialists, because the political control did not come from where they wished it, but it is a suspicion that things have gone the other way, not the way the Socialists dreamed, ladies and gentlemen. Continue in the text: ==References== In the same paper, it is to be read that for almost two years the investigations have gone in the wrong direction, namely, to the camp of classical legal radicals. – "The political pressure in the Bombencausa was so great that the last criminal officer knew where he had to look for the perpetrators," the book says literally. ==References====External links== March. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Allow me to read this publication. That's what it says literally: "What the state politician criticizes in his revelation book "Treason to Austria" is now also confirmed by an official" (i.e. a second official) "the Bomb Special Commission. After the attacks in Ebergassing and Oberwart, there was a sort of "exhibition ban" in the left-wing terrorist scene" – I repeat: a kind of arrest ban in the left-wing terrorist scene! –, "although some traces lead there." Ladies and gentlemen! This has not yet been contradicted, until today no dementi has been done in the public! No one less than his own state police complains to the public that the Minister of the Interior is giving them "a kind of ban on arrests" to determine where she would have to be determined if she had been allowed to proceed properly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! We must not only give this Minister of the Interior no further police or government intelligence instruments at hand, we must remove this Minister of the Interior from his office, so that in Austria the bombs are finally going in the direction to which they are supposed to run, that is to say, properly and according to criminal and criminal scientific considerations, and not according to political preferences of a party which makes a political area of protection particularly appropriate by the state police! [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we read in the "Press" that there has been a arrest, a arrest of a alleged perpetrator known for months. In any case, it is to be read in the "Press" today that shortly after the attack, a left extreme from the Anarcho scene has been discovered chemicals that can be clearly used for the production of explosives, as they were used in various bomb attacks. Ladies and gentlemen! This has not led to the arrest of this man, which has not led to an investigation, which has only led to the fact that the security officials of that Republic being turned to the public had to start from the beginning and have actually landed with him again. Ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a scandal of first order!]] This is a scandal of first goodness crying out to heaven! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I can tell you who this eminent gentleman was, in this context, also the subject of investigations: a certain Mr. Hermann R. from Spittal on the Drau – it was always the talk of a Carinthian – who then suddenly appeared in Oberwart. First investigations against this Hermann R. have also been made, but see here: The direction came from above: Investigations must be stopped immediately! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why?]] This Hermann R. has a proper "supply paper" to show, from material damage to property damage, to property damage to death. But a criminal case has never been settled against this Hermann R.! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why not?]] His compliments are also known, ladies and gentlemen, High House! One of the compliments today is the employee of a club of this high house. One of the compliments, ladies and gentlemen, also works for a magazine for which this employee also works. And with this magazine and in the circles of these people, not only prominent greens have been wrong, such as the now representative Doris Pollet-Kammerlander or the Federal Managing Director of the Green Franz Floss – no! – at this magazine, the now personal speaker of our highly revered Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, has also passed a certain Mrs Susanne L. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how things are going in this republic! The most powerful protect a scene they have known for months that the terrorists would be looking for there. But out of fear that one could then discover traces of them and then have them embarrassing need of explanation, as in the "TATblatt" donation, the investigation at the State Police is undermined in this direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is a scandal of first order, a scandal that does not entitle us to even think about whether this Minister of the Interior should be given another police instrument at hand! High house! How sure all these figures that are in this scene were, for example, proved yesterday's lecture in the Chamber of Workers Linz, that's the chamber that has the honor of President Hostasch, President-in-Office. There was a leaflet, so the name is also to be called, it was a public event: A Heribert Schiedel, journalist and co-author of the turning and fishing point of this whole scene, the well-known journalist Purtscheller, has reported nothing but that Wolfgang Purtscheller – which must now be broken down on the tongue – has taken his place abroad, ladies and gentlemen, because he received a hint from the Stapo. High house! That's a scandal! Mr Löschnak has reported to Parliament in an oral and written reply to the question that at least because of the suspicion of participation in crime, it is being determined by means of explosives. – And the same Purtscheller then gets a hint from the Ministry of the Interior, from the State Police, that he should drop off abroad! High house! This is the man who was sent to schools by Minister Busek at the time to teach Antifa at the expense of the taxpayer of this Republic! Now he is abroad, due to a corresponding indication: It's that man who died on 10 June. ==References====External links== April predicted in Ebergassing, ladies and gentlemen! And he has already put the evidence in this statement that a right-wing explosive attack is in preparation! We now know that it was a far-left explosive attack, committed by far-left perpetrators who had had personal contact with the Interior Minister One, and that this journalist Purtscheller was the first to know about it and has already announced it publicly, ladies and gentlemen! – And this journalist gets a hint from the state police that he should drop off abroad, just as Mr Bassam al Taher, at that time, has gone abroad, after which the police are still trying, supposedly unsuccessful, to fend for the Hohes Haus! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You shouldn't miss out on the upper guard tracks either!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Upper Guards will still be busy with this house, I dare to predict! We will still be working on the high-rises, some of which will still have a sensational need for explanation in this House! Today, only one thing concerns us: the unelected desire of a Minister of the Interior to obtain further resources of power to continue to have the citizens of this country and thus the security of that country available for its party political purposes. And there is only a definite no from our group.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48543	Mr Van der Bellen has made a statement on the actual correction. - I give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48568	Mr President. Deputies Mag. Stadler here, under the protection of immunity, has claimed that lawyer Dr. Thomas Prader maintains illegal contacts with the so-called terrorist scene. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't say that!]] That's what you said. This claim is false and lacks any basis. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I didn't say "imlegal contacts"!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Mag. Stadler! We will then be able to read in the Minutes what you said! – If you repeat such claims, if you are not under the protection of immunity, you will certainly find yourself in court!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48622	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48644	Mr President. High house! The well-known Member of Parliament has spoken here of a judicial scandal. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's more!]] I mean, What we have just experienced is a parliamentary scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it unbearable that, in an item on the agenda, in which we should seek to discuss the matter, under the protection of immunity, there should be a number of claims against those who cannot defend themselves and establish links which are not at all verifiable or verifiable at all. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I think this is a abuse of Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Who has something to say here: Mr President or you?]] I do not want to say anything more here than Mr Stadler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] You and your whole group, who have participated, should be personally ashamed of this behaviour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens, as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We had the Interior Minister here in the house a few days ago and discussed matters. At that time, you could have blamed the Minister of the Interior for these points of discussion! I am sure he could have answered you accordingly, just as he has answered you and Mr Haider accordingly to the allegations you have made him from the beginning, but none of them have thought of him. It's also detectable! Today these claims are made if the Minister of the Interior is not here, is perfid and insidious and is strictly rejected by us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] I do not want to engage in any further debate at this level at all. I would just like to say quite clearly: We Socialists appreciate Parliament too much as we could allow it to be misused for unfounded misinterpretations in a way that some parties unfortunately did in the period prior to the Second World War. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] It has recently been published a book by the Salzburg President of the Landtags, entitled "Go to Parliament to Destroy It" and presented here in this House, in which he makes a documentary on the operation of National Socialist Members in the parliaments of the First Republic. – You have obviously done a lot of things: They have come to Parliament to destroy it. – We will protect Parliament against you, and we will protect the Republic from you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48738	Another actual correction was made by Mrs Hostasch. – She has the word and knows the procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48762	Mr Mag. Stadler! You have claimed that I know Dr. Prader and have dealings with him. - I think that's what you called it. I notice: This is not true, it is an untruth.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48798	The next speaker is Dr. Kier.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e48825	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I hope that the call will stop soon. I'm asking for the floor. First of all, I would like to refer to the Federal Minister Ditz apologise: He sits here to talk with us – we discuss, and he occasionally speaks and answers us – about certain sections of a structural adjustment law. He represents the whole federal government, I know that. Of course, another gentleman could also sit here, for example, Mr Bartenstein; I would be right for everyone. But the debates that we have recently heard have clearly referred personally to a member of the Federal Government who is not sitting here. I would therefore like to apologize to Mr Ditz for being a witness of a form of parliamentarian, which I simply do not like. She doesn't fit my ideas. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I do not want to avoid this right now, because I do not think that it is necessary to put matters on the table, provided they are matters. I believe that as long as human dignity and the rule of law are observed and are not in the form of an infringement, it must be possible to discuss every issue in this House. For example, if it is – I am now quite conscious of the person – as in the claim made, it is a registered lawyer who is put into an overall context here, which would clearly be discriminating if he is correct, then there is the autonomous discipline of his Bar. And I fully assume that all that Mr Stadler has presented here has long been deposited by him in the form of a case-law presentation at this Bar. However, if he has not, then I think he has chosen a somewhat unusual detour to inform the Barbarella by perhaps relying on the same person to read the Stenographical Protocols. – As a legal person, he will not have intended that! In fact, he has only meant that we are now annoyed, and therefore we should not do to him the pleasure of annoying ourselves, but we should try to analyze what has been said here, for example. It was accused to the Federal Minister for the Interior, whom I do not have to defend, that he had publicly stated that he was giving instructions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Illegal instructions!]] Mr Stadler! You know as well as I do: If there were illegal instructions or illegal instructions, they would not at all be followed by officials under certain rights of service. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's wrong!]] That means: Indeed illegal instructions are illegal and therefore ineffective from the definition. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is legally wrong!]] It's not legally wrong! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course!]] If you submit to the officials of the Ministry of the Interior that it is common for everyone to pay attention when unlawful instructions are given, then you do wrong to these people! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But apart from that, it is not the usual form of announcing illegal instructions in the media. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Did he?]] Therefore, the simple announcement of ministerial instructions is something that you cannot like. I can truly understand that you do not like the Minister of the Interior's efforts under the applicable laws to ensure that these are carried out somewhat more humanely. That does not mean, however, that he acts unlawfully. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He has expressly declared it! Read this!]] I would ask you to take note of this: For me, media are not primary legal sources. [[Bravorufe and congratulation at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you are appointed by Minister Molterer, by Minister Bartenstein, by Minister One, by the Federal Chancellor or by the Foreign Minister, by whomever you call, you will submit the illegal instructions to us! We will certainly fight at your side if it is an intolerable accusation. But please: Authentic, but not in this form! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] This is important to me because I do not want to give the impression that I am not going to join my colleague Stadler, Mr Stadler, that I agree with him. I also do not intend to defend one or another of the Federal Ministers. It is rather my concern that we maintain our self-esteem here. In this self-esteem I mean that we maintain forms which, even if they are publicly perceived, are not embarrassing, not ashamed and not humiliating. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But sluggish it doesn't have to be!]] Dear colleague Haigermoser! I have an excellent hearing: The expression you have now used is better on you than on some of the others here in this house! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] I don't need to repeat him because you used him yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I come back to the real questions raised today, for example: In his opinion, the Federal Minister said that 75 per cent of the Members or the reason and the logic of the people welcome the toll pickerl he intends to introduce. I can only tell you: It may already be that this is appropriate in this broad form. But that's why it doesn't get any more real. This solution is not a step closer to the 'polluter pays' principle and still contains all the mistakes in beauty that my group colleague Helmut Peter has made, even if you can rely on opinions that welcome this. I would have preferred to have been said by the government: We need this toll picker now, because we need the money immediately, as we have spent it a little too generous in recent years. That would be the real reason. This too would not please us, but it would be more honest than to say: It's right for the people. Federal Minister! They have addressed the problem of petrol prices, particularly in connection with small border traffic, with petrol tourism in Slovenia. You know that one of the problems behind this is the unresolved problem of the processing cartels around the Adriatic-Vienna pipeline. It would be a challenge for the Minister of Economic Affairs to solve this, regardless of the fact that we are just adopting a structural adjustment law. I therefore invite you, on the day following the decision on this law, to apply immediately to these actually excessive producer prices in Austria! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Although I originally wanted to avoid it, I must withdraw the loop once again to the speech by Mr Stadler. Because I would like to turn to a matter which is being discussed here, namely the novelle to the Federal Ministry Act. I have, while Mr Stadler has spoken, looked at this novel on the Federal Ministry Act. – This does not mean that any subordinate departments or authorities such as the Army News Office, the Defense Office or the State Police are to be reorganised after this novel. In this case too, Mr Stadler has again carried media reports into a debate on a federal law concerning any possible scenarios in the future, but not what should concern us here. And precisely because, in the last few weeks, we have had to deal with the difficult materials in a time-economic way, I am twice curious that a colleague of an opposition party who still has such a strength that it can allow any item on the agenda to negotiate here at any time, uses the short time available to us to discuss the Structural Adjustment Act for this purpose in order to pool in the context of its important concerns. That's, I'm sorry. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is our thing!]] I think that's just a shame! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is really our thing!]] Of course this is your thing! But in this case you are not only dealing badly with your time, but with us all the time. We wanted to talk about the Structural Adjustment Act, but not about the political fantasies and fears of the Ewald Stadler. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] That's the thing. I've already said, We will not avoid these discussions. It will be necessary for democracy policy not to avoid these discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take care of your own speaking time!]] I only ask you to lead them in another form, on the basis of facts, and not to offer the people a spectacle – I had the opportunity to use this word yesterday, and I must unfortunately do it again – for which we all have to be ashamed together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49058	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49101	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Your words regarding a better climate and a better choice of words clearly have with Mr Colleagues – what is his name? [[Call the SPÖ:Koppler!]] - Koppler didn't produce anything. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You should know him pretty slowly!]] I'm sorry, his name didn't come up with me. He's so rarely here in Parliament, so he didn't think of me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is the well-known mesh of the Socialist Party that you always, if we reveal malaise and say something that is unpleasant to you, we will destroy Parliament. You said today that we were abused by Parliament and that you were there to protect Parliament from us. We have seen in the budget debate how you protect Parliament. We have seen how you practice parliamentarianism. We've seen you pass over how you decide the laws in the Husch-Fusch procedure. We've seen what alibide debates you're holding. – And you still trust to say here that you are protecting parliamentarianism from us! That's really ridiculous, I can tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you come with melancholy arguments that what Mr Stadler has raised here is not on the agenda. . I have already experienced a lot of debates in which you have waged a slam war against our clubman on every item on the agenda. Every agenda was right for you. You weren't so sensitive! Always when it comes to your own interests, take a stand over everything. You don't know a agenda, you don't know a good style and not a proper political climate. But when it comes to our concerns, we have to sit down, be good and talk only to your mouth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we are not the ÖVP, we do not always speak according to your mouth, but we show mercilessly all the malices here. That is exactly what Mr Stadler has done today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not see Mrs. Hostasch, but maybe you can make it up to her: In 1993 there was an initiative in support of the left-wing extreme newspaper "Salto" called Salto mortale for the Salto. And this support initiative was heard by Mrs. Grandits, Mrs. Lore Hostasch and by lawyer Thomas Prader. Today, however, Mrs Hostasch says in an actual correction that she does not know Dr Prader at all. – I wonder: Has her signature come there without her knowing, or has she not said the truth today? It would be very interesting to know! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You don't need to get upset at all. I have a press release here, not from us, but from the APA: "KPÖ Federal Party Board should review once again whether Saltis newspaper 'Salto' really should be dissolved." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Written by the Labour Chamber President for a CPÖ newspaper!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So that means: Mrs Hostasch's statements have been rejected, and I am only waiting for her to apologize for Mrs Stadler's unjust objection to the truth here. I would like to draw attention to the statements made by my colleague Dr. Ofner, Mag. Mr Stadler and Mr Scheibner are coming back. I, too, must honestly tell you, have seen with great displeasure that the Minister of the Interior "grass" continuously beyond his place of business and interferes in the country's defence resort. I am not afraid that he is not working in his place of business, because I would rather, for there he is instituting only loud things that give us cause for concern. His work in the interior is really worrying, he wants to destroy the previously proven structures completely; I think only of the police academy, for example. The police academy should have been built under Löschnak as a cadre school for the police. What does the Minister of the Interior One of them? – He wants to make an academy in which, for example, Mr Pelinka should play a very serious role as a lecturer. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny, you're fine!]] This really bothers me when I listen to the left ideas of Professor Pelinka and imagine that the police should be shaped according to his image. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a professor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Purtscheller-Friend!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: A Democrat is bothering you!]] It may be possible for him to be a democrat. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Is it bothering you that he's a democrat?]] No, that's not bothering me. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: If you have anything against Pelinka, you have something against democracy!]] Why do you accuse me so unjustly? I have something against Pelinka and against his far-left views. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This has nothing to do with my having something against democracy, but it seems that we are no longer democrats if we reject a Pellinka. You can refuse everything with us. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Can you repeat that? Pelinka is a left-wing extremer for you?]] You can read it in the minutes, what I said. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That is not punishable!]] I would like to say one more thing, you know, for us it is really very worrying, I must say, that Mr Kostelka has had this abstract idea of bringing together the intelligence services, Stapo, HNA and so on, and transferring it to the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior for Operation. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It's not an honorary title!]] [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman]] And the Minister of the Interior has joined this abstract proposal. I think there can be fear and fear. In any case, I do not want to have that, because you can imagine what looks like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He's an interior minister who doesn't make a locust of working with far-left people, because otherwise he wouldn't have given two donations to a left-wing extremist organization or to the "TATblatt". There you can see the interests of these Ministers of the Interior. And one also sees what ideas the Interior Ministers have if he obviously wants to deal with the law with more instructions. It is clear, Mr Kier, that the Minister of the Interior did not want to give instructions so that the laws might be implemented, but quite the contrary. These instructions should be counter-empty. And I'll prove that to you right away. The Minister of the Interior said at an event: The relationship between us and the others is similar when it comes to the deportation of a criminal foreigner who has lived in Austria for 15 years, is married and has children. The law was clear in this case, one thought it was to be postponed. Nevertheless, he believes, One, that it is not easy to explain why you have to set different standards than that of an Austrian. And in this context, he wants to work with instructions. Thank God the officials have so far refused to comply with these instructions. That is, he wants to realize his ideas without paying attention to the law. And such an interior minister is really very suspense to us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to prevent such an interior minister from getting even more power. We are addressing this today because we are really afraid that the Austrian People's Party will once again be going to the Socialists on the glue. We are really afraid that you will be caught by the socialists, either because of coalition loyalty or because of fear of being thrown out of the coalition. We have experienced this many times before that you fall by. We have now experienced it again with the tax laws. For example, they have fallen once again when it came to pre-taxing the trucks. First, you said great: No, we're against it, you can go over it – then you fell down again. We have experienced that Mr Kiss said three days before the National Council election that this Minister of the Interior would agree with confidence. When we tabled a motion of censure here in Parliament, Mr Kiss was one of those who opposed this motion. That is, you can be constantly taken in by the SPÖ and beat the strangest caprioles, because you are probably afraid that you will be thrown out that you no longer have any chance in this coalition. We would simply call it a disaster for Austria if A head of this great centre, namely the intelligence service, would become, especially if, as Mr Ofner has already said, one imagines this along with the introduction of the noise attack and the grid arrest. I was always a supporter of the noise attack, I was always skeptical about the grid arrest. But slowly, I have to say, I am afraid that if we have this instrument for these intentions which exist on the part of the Socialist Party, there could really be a great abuse of power. Ladies and gentlemen! We're afraid of this Minister of the Interior. We are afraid of these ideas of the Socialists, and we are also afraid of the Minister for the Interior because he does not see to it that order is being made in his area. We have a disastrous Court of Auditors report on the Stapo. We have the report of an official of the Stapo who proves that it is going down there and over it, who tells us how it really looks behind the scenes. We do not want this Minister of the Interior to gain more power. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore appeal to the Austrian People's Party, because the Socialists can still be forgotten when it comes to the Minister for the Interior. In the last mistrust he even received roses from some women of the Socialist Party. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Unheard of!]] Yes, for me this is really unheard of, such an interior minister, who is giving money to the "TATblatt", to a left-wing newspaper, to hand over roses. I find it unheard of that he is a Minister of the Interior if you want to hear this, Mr Novotny. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I appeal to you from the Austrian People's Party that you are not allowed to be bought by the Socialist Party when it comes to giving this Minister of the Interior even more power. I appeal to you to meet this Minister of the Interior as skeptical as you did before the election. You should maintain this setting even after the election and act accordingly. I now put to the vote a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! I would ask you to accept this motion for a resolution, which is only in the interests of Austria, which is only aimed at ensuring that this Minister of the Interior does not have more rights.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49395	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next provocative report is that of Mr Novotny. It's the second word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49419	Mr President. I'm going to be very short. I would like to refer to a statement by Mrs Partik-Pablé, in which she referred to university professor Dr. Anton Pelinka as left-wing extremists. I would like to point out... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: This is an evaluation! That's him too!]] You've repeated it now. I would like to point out: University Professor Dr. Pelita is a professor at the University of Innsbruck. He used to be an employee of the Catholic weekly "The Furche", and no doubt it is not to be described as a left-wing extremist. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That you do that only shows what strange ideas You have, or have, been constantly spread about people who have also earned the protection of this Parliament as genuine democrats. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Grandfather of Left-Extremism!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49474	I declare that, on the one hand, all the speakers who have been on the list of speakers have now been withdrawn, but on the other hand, Mr Haider has just been reported. – He also withdraws. Then I will interrupt the meeting for 5 minutes to prepare the Croquis. There are no more words available. The debate is closed. The meeting was suspended to prepare the Croquis.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49507	I'll start the meeting again. The preparations for the vote have been completed. We have to complete the second reading and then do the third reading. We shall vote on Articles 20, 80 to 83, 88 and 91 as well as on the title, receipt and table of contents of the Structural Adjustment Act in 95 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Puttinger, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades. There is also an additional request from Dr Schmidt and Comrades. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the applications and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Schmidt and Comrades have submitted an additional request, which, in Article 91 Z 11, provides for the insertion of a Z 20 into Section N of Part 2 of the Annex to Section 2. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give Schmidt their approval to this request for a sign in this regard. – This is the minority and is therefore rejected. MEPs Dr. Puttinger, Parnigoni and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 20(7) para. 8 to be inserted. I am therefore seeking the Ladies and gentlemen, in favour of Article 20 of the draft law, as amended by the Puttinger, Parnigoni amendment, to give a positive signal. . I note that this request was adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group on Others, as well as on the title, receipt and table of contents of the Structural Adjustment Act as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – I note the adoption by a majority. This concludes the second reading of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act. In the sense of § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motions for resolutions be taken at once. I am of the opinion that hardly anyone will object. – That’s not the case, then we’ll do that. I am therefore voting on the resolution on the impact of transport on particularly sensitive routes in connection with the introduction of the high-level road network vignette, annexed to the Committee's report 95 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 8.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Stadler and Mr Comrades on the concentration of power unbearable to democracy. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the third reading of the Structural Adjustment Act. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I shall first determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members. There can be no doubt about that. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. - It's clear to me. Does anyone want an enumeration? - That's not the case. Then I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority within the meaning of the federal constitution. The Structural Adjustment Act was adopted in 1996. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 23. April, 11 a.m. The agenda will be distributed in writing. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-04-16-020-XX-NRSITZ-00016_d7e49642	At the end of this meeting I announced that requests 153/A to 166/A had been received, and also written questions 386/J to 443/J. The sitting is closed.
