ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2868	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I welcome you all very warmly and open the 31st. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocol of the 30th century. Meeting of 18 March 1990 In June 1996, it remained uncontested and is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs Lammer, Schöll, Donabauer, Gatterer, Dr. Mock, Dr. Swimmer, Hans Helmut Moserund Dr. Gusenbauer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2905	Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky wrote in writing. In June 1996, he announced that he was abroad today. It shall be published in accordance with Article 69(1). 2 of the Federal Constitution by Mr Vice-Chancellor. Furthermore, the Federal Chancellor's Office for this meeting made a communication on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Mr. Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Art Dr. Rudolf Scholtenwill be represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Helga Conrad and Mr. Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Caspar by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Christa Krammer. I'm allowed to ask for attention. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2947	I also have a letter from the Federal Chancellor, which reads as follows: "I am honoured to announce that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 19. In June, on my proposal in accordance with Art. 74 para. 3 of the Federal Constitution has removed the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Johannes Ditzvom Amt. At the same time, on my proposal, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the same day as he has. In paragraph 70, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Federal Constitution appointed Dr. Johann Farnleitner as the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs." Request for a debate pursuant to § 81 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e2974	There is the desire of five Members to hold a debate on the communication on the appointment of a member of the Federal Government and the appointment of a new member of the Federal Government. This debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure within the framework of the first item on the agenda, i.e. as item 1 of the agenda. I would also like to say that, after leaving his office as Minister of State, Mr Ditz did not re-allocate his National Council mandate. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3004	We are now arriving at the current hour. The subject is: The current school reform package
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3025	First, Mr Brader has reported to me. I'll give him the word. Speaking time: ten minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3046	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In a few days a school year ends again. For the children the holidays begin, for the teachers the time of regeneration and further training. In Lower Austria alone, more than 7,000 compulsory school teachers participate in the training seminars of the Educational Institute in summer. Many of these seminars deal with the common teaching of disabled and non-inhibited children, and I would like to address this very area at this current hour, because an extensive reform package is available to us. This package of reforms also concerns the continuation of integrative education at secondary level. The continuation of this path started in primary school is a real, a good step. It means that the experience and the findings from the education sector can now also be implemented in the field of primary and lower secondary education. [[Sound conversations in the bank series.]] What do these experiences look like? – In advance, it can be said that all serious scientific studies have shown that all children benefit from common education. However, the success is...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3077	Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the good pleasure at the beginning of a meeting, the first speaker has always been particularly difficult – no matter which group he is. I'm asking you to be a little more careful. - Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3092	All children benefit when certain conditions are met, for example, a class student number of not more than 20, no more than four disabled children in one class, well-trained teachers, a good cooperation between regular school and special educational centres, sufficient material resources and – last but not least – the most important: a high level of commitment of all those involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The latter cannot be ordered, but must, as it were, already be present as a priority. This also means that the principle of voluntaryity should not be shaken. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been shown, however, that there are many children who cannot be cared for in an integrative model for which this form is not the right care. That is why the free choice of parents must be safeguarded. In my opinion, it is an irresponsible nonsensibility if some so-called experts call for the abolition of all medical care facilities! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who believe that mere spatial togetherness already means integration must be blamed for instrumentalising disabled children for other political objectives. Who believes that disabled children without special educational support learn only from the example of the unimpeded children who are mistaken. Man – and that is, I believe, general good – does not just develop in the sou of others. He acquires his education from his own questions and problems. The question as a intersection between knowledge and non-knowledge is the starting point of the education process. This intersection, however, lies with everyone else, and so in truth, there can be no educational process that is the same for all. Like any other child, the disabled child has a right to education. Abstaining special support is a non-recognition, a withdrawal of his education claim, and that does not correspond to human dignity and is no longer compatible with the dignity of a human being. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we have followed the discussions of recent years on the subject of "Joint teaching of disabled and non-inhibited children", we have, unfortunately, sometimes had to get the impression that ideological pitfalls were being fought rather than that had been seriously discussed. It is not a question of whether, as the liberals have once claimed, one goes on his knees in front of the parents, nor is it about whether one has to slip on the knees to carry out his demands, but it is only about it – and this is guaranteed with this reform package – that the form of organization in which his educational opportunities can be optimally used is found for each one-time child in his unique state of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the common teaching of disabled and non-inhibited children is one of the biggest challenges for our school life. Such sensitive topics cannot be answered with rough phrases, not ideological dogmas, but only with technical and scientifically thought-out concepts. Those who follow this path will insist that there are many good approaches: individual support lessons – constantly or for a certain period of time –, the integration class, the cooperative classes and many other forms of working on joint projects. All these possibilities are covered by the proposed bill. It remains a place for individual, autonomous decision on site. We can rightly be proud of this path. When you finish that 20th. Considered in retrospect by the century, one can say: It is rightly – at least at its end – referred to as the "century of the child", as Ellen Key has declared. I think that this path can be pursued further. I may refer to: Jean Paul says: Some truths need to be given new translations in every century like strange masterpieces. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are in the process of taking new paths for the education of disabled children as well. We are doing this, bearing in mind all the needs and knowledge, and it will be shown that we are doing well not to leave this path. To ensure another "century of the child", in practice and science we will again have to focus on the child's overall personality and focus on it. All typifications and categorizes are as anti-integration as the scientifically justified embodiment and the progressive extension of the concept of disability. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How are you about the proposal to extend compulsory education up to 18 years?]] The individual situation of a child, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be determined, but must be understood as something that points out beyond the here and now and includes changes. If you want to define the status quo of a disability, then the danger is to ask about the value of the other person and to fall short or long of recovery ideology. I would like us to discuss together our thoughtful path towards the needs of children, and I wish to have a discussion which is technical and objective and which does not include phrases and ideologies!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3164	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Gehrer now receives the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3184	Mr President. High house! A good education system must be diverse, creative and open to new things. Our youth needs schools that demand, but also make them live, who impart knowledge, but also the values not forget, to give schools that work towards a goal, but also to give spaces, to schools that make curious and give answers. A forward-looking and successful education system needs continuity where long-term objectives are sought, and reform spirit where changes are needed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] With these objectives we took the following measures in the last school year: A reflection of the structures with a precise definition of the financial and organisational framework. This is necessary for teachers to know what they can rely on what their working conditions are. An increase in public reputation for teaching and schooling. Another focus was the creation of a new school culture through modern school management. All measures in the field of autonomy. Other priorities include internal school reform, internationalisation and the focus on creativity towards overall personality development. Last week, as a further step in the field of school, a comprehensive legislative work has been launched in the field of assessment, a comprehensive novel that sets out these objectives – long-term objectives, but where it is necessary to create new conditions. This comprehensive school package includes integration into secondary school I, the possibility of getting up with a not enough, it also includes getting up to the next higher school level after a year abroad, redesigning the polytechnic course, and more co-determination for students – that is, a comprehensive and large package that leads a step further in the school reform efforts. I would now like to give some more details on some points of focus. Integration in secondary education has already been dealt with by my previous speaker. I'm very clear: It is not a question of the child reaching the teaching goal of the primary school, the educational goal of the gymnasium with special educational needs. Rather, it is about social integration, it is about more human interaction, it is about the basis for a human society. There is a good step towards integration! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the discussion about getting up with a not enough, I am quite clear: Performance must remain performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am particularly concerned with setting up an early warning system. It must be a central educational concern to avoid school failure as far as possible. It is a very negative impression for any development of personality if you are confirmed – possibly in several subjects –: I can't, I don't have enough. That is, we must first make sure that the child makes the right choice. To this end, we already have to involve parents in the fourth class, because the parents largely determine the choice of school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, through targeted support measures, we need to improve the learning situation. That is why it is enshrined in the bill that even if it appears that the student could not get enough, discussions with the parents would take place, a teaching material analysis will be carried out together with the parents, promotion opportunities will be discussed and an individual funding programme will also be drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned about keeping away from the students the negative experience of school failure. The second concern is that because of a momentary personal failure, for example when the child is in puberty, there is no personal difficulty if there is perhaps difficulties in the child’s environment when there is a punctual failure of performance, so that a whole class does not have to be repeated due to this punctual failure in performance. So it's not about getting up with a five automatically. The parents should rather make an appropriate request – that is proposed in the novelle; it is to be discussed whether this should be possible every year or every second year, once in the lower level, once in the upper level – and in principle this regulation would be more stringent than we currently have, for at present a student can, by decision of the class teacher conference, rise every year. I would also like to take the opportunity to make an appeal to parents at the end of the school: Dear parents! Take the notes your child brings seriously, but don't overestimate the notes! The notes don't say everything about a young person's chances of life. I ask the parents to have an open conversation with the child, to show the child his strengths, and above all to make reasonable planning. Leave the child time to recover and then make a learning plan. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress what is a special concern in the field of internationalisation: We want to make it possible for a student who has been abroad for a year to ascend to the next class in Austria. This requires flexibility from the students, flexibility from parents and teachers, but I believe that a youth abroad acquires many skills, such as foreign language competence and enforcement skills. This is a result of the fact that, in some areas of knowledge, he may have to pick up his gaps. Further measures are the reform of the polytechnic course, the easing of the advertising ban, the redesign of the admission procedure for the BHS and the entry into the AHS. In addition, beyond this school law, the following priorities will be taken into account in the next school year: We want to upgrade the teaching. We want to put a very clear focus on our dual training. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I mean, the good Austrian dual education must not be replaced by a school. We will allow the upgrading of the teaching professions by creating the professional maturity test. The professional maturity test is the throughput of the teaching, from the technical school to further education. The concept is there, the discussions are being held, and a first draft law is also in place. We will implement this professional maturity test in the autumn. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another central concern is the real administrative simplification, debureaucratisation. All procedures between the Ministry, the Council of State and the Schools will be carefully reviewed. We will create unnecessary formwork from around the world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The school's task is to form and develop the whole personality of the young person. This requires enormous commitment from every teacher and teacher: enormous commitment to competence, knowledge, but also to love for youth. I would therefore like to take the upcoming school leaving to say a warm and sincere thank you to all teachers throughout Austria for their valuable work in all schools!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3326	In the debate that follows, the speaking times are five minutes in a uniform manner. I call Mr Amon. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3351	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This school reform package certainly has very important contents. I would like to confine myself to three points: on the one hand, to the reform of the polytechnic course towards greater professional orientation. This makes the polytechnic course more attractive. What has been tested as an attempt at school for a number of years is now being taken over into the general school system. I also consider the possibility that parts of the curriculum, which is taught in the polytechnic course, should be included in vocational training, therefore, for good and necessary, because in this way the scope for the professional maturity examination just presented by the Federal Minister can also be created. I think that this permeability in the education system is a real breakthrough in education policy. I think it is so important and so central for the following reason: When we look at the education system, we find on the one hand the AHS, the general education higher schools, with Matura and subsequent study possibilities, the vocational higher schools with Matura and subsequent study possibilities and on the other hand the teaching. It will take two to four years depending on the teaching profession and will end with the final examination or examination. There is then the possibility of making the concession exam, the master's exam, that is, one goes on, but then one is on, so to speak, and this course, of course, often appears as one-way road, as a dead end. But now, with this professional maturity test, the permeability is made possible. This is not about producing a new run on universities, but in this way the teaching profession is also attracted! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that this will break through an educational wall, which, in parallel to the fact that companies that train apprentices must be given massive relief, will send a second important signal of positive training. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why haven't you done this for a long time?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't let him disturb you!]] The second point, which I think is very important, is the extension of autonomy. School autonomy, I believe, is important because this is how regional differences can be addressed. I also believe that the ban on advertising is not a danger. In fact, this offers an opportunity to cooperate much more closely with companies, which would not be possible in this way at present. In this way, contacts with companies will be established and, if necessary, jobs will be ensured. The reliefs in the reception of students with respect for the supply are another step towards autonomy, which thus brings benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, as a former student representative, I am of course also pleased that there is an extension of student representation rights, for example in the area of the sub-level of the AHS, because I believe that one cannot start to involve young people in the democratic process at all, that one cannot begin to experience democracy at all early enough. That's right, that's good, so I welcome this package!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3413	Mr Ddr. Decliner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3434	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is indeed an extensive reform package, and it has already been mentioned what it is all about: Integration, PL reform, extension of student participation – parents are also waiting for more rights, as the federal association of parent associations recently informed us – some simplifications and so on. We are still in this package – I would like to express this – at the moment in the review process. I am very interested in the fact that all those wishing to introduce ideas and considerations into this review process also have a right to take these considerations into account. The last word will be made by Parliament, but we will sum up all that is being put in place here, and I hope that in autumn we will work together on a good package to enable the schools to further reform. I would like to start with two points which are not yet included in this package, but which are so important to us that I would like to point out. We should try to install this. It is first of all about the school entrance area, a school entrance area as far as possible without exception, about the so-called non-selective school entrance. This would be an important step to be taken either this year or next year. If we are talking about the performance assessment and that we want to make it possible to get up with a not enough, then it is also a question of giving all those teachers who try alternatives to traditional performance assessment in compulsory schools, in the public schools, in these first four years of schooling, the opportunity to do so on a legal basis. This means that new, alternative forms of performance assessment in primary school are not as an attempt, but as a rule form. In this respect too – Mr Brader has pointed out – we should benefit from the knowledge of science. This knowledge of science is so far as we can implement it. With regard to the integration of children with special educational needs, there is much in this draft; it is an important step. I am sorry that we are not on schedule in this respect, Mrs Federal Minister, since we are putting the countries and the countryside under great pressure of time when we will only decide sometime in autumn, but should make the country days for their field, the primary school sector, national laws which will enter into force in autumn next year. It would have been important if we had already decided on this package and could not only talk about it in a current hour. My colleague Rada will present our thoughts on vocational school and polytechnic training. I would like to concentrate, in a few sentences, on the fact that Mr Rada will also deal with this, on the rise not enough and to bring in a consideration here, which is not entirely to be rejected. These possibilities of ascending are not just about not using part-performance weaknesses or not enough in individual subjects to repeat a whole year, it is about the child – that is very important – but it is also about the cost of a student, a student in school year about 70 000 S – depending on school type between 40 000 S and the higher schools 90 000 S, for example at a higher school. Five thousand recessors per school year less would mean 300 million schillings, which we could use and need very well for other purposes in education. Administrative simplification, yes, our concept clearly goes towards more autonomy for the individual school, less towards just shifting competence from one authority to another – we will still have to discuss it. We have also recently experienced a good discussion about our educational plans and ideas. I am pleased that the colleagues of the other political groups are taking part in the discussion of our party programme. I hope that if you think about the future, you will also let us know about it. In any case, one should be clear...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3476	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3492	The Social Democratic Party continues its commitment as the largest educational movement. We see school as part of society.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3510	Please put the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3525	It is not only about qualification, it is also about building up citizens who are actively involved in this society.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3556	The next item is Mrs Priezinger's speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3577	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Every year the same picture: The school's conclusion is at the door, the testimonies and the crowd are not enough to come into the house, and there is again a range of educational statements and declarations of intent by the government parties. Today, we have had to hear a lot of jubilation reports, but each year we have the same picture of helplessness on the one hand, and on the other hand the concealment of our own educational failure and failure of an educational policy which ultimately goes at the expense and at the expense of young people and students and pursues the goal – and I would like to say this clearly – of bringing generations of people into party ideological goals. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With meagre and partly confused ideas, teaching ministry and socialist education politicians are also trying to outshine each other in their school packages or school reform packages. Although public criticism is not saved, the words of Mr. Dr. Niederweiser are already defamatory when he says: Much of the planned schemes are at the education level of the SPÖ. Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer, with her reform package, presents herself as a truly capable implementer of socialist educational ideas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's once the idea of getting up with five on your parents' request. Mrs. Federal Minister! What does this have to do with performance? – This is, of course, an automatic one! In the future, show me a case where the parents will not make this request. This is a dream-man policy that ends up in a pedagogical insanity! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] But the SPÖ goes one step further, of course, saying: We want to completely abolish the class repetitions. – So there is not only a climb with a not enough, but with any many – what then still learn? But there is also criticism from the SPÖ's own series. The Upper Austrian Vice-President of Wingert State School Council says: Don't even think about it, otherwise we'll get rid of school! Mrs. Federal Minister! The early warning system at the beginning of the summer semester is also pedagogical, as the spokesperson of the teacher union Helmut Skala has also noted. It's also blatant. What happens to the rest of the class, who then lives in good faith or relies on him to finish school anyway? The five-time insurrection automatic takes place instead of the class teacher conference, demises and devalues it. This easy-to-use way of going about a Not enough is a step to further demands, and these can also be found immediately in the SPÖ paper. Through self-evaluation and self-evaluation, students are expected to participate in the grades, supplementing the usual foreign assessment by the teacher. Teachers are highly stylized to the image of the enemy, so teachers are strangers, and notes given by teachers are therefore in question at all. Now the summer hit is coming: the extension of compulsory schooling until the 18th century. Year of life – naturally based on the socialist favorite idea of the entire school, as mental uniformization is announced for the future. Because there is nothing in this paper about gift promotion or gifted students. [[Abg. Huber: Do you have any idea what you're saying?]] This extension of compulsory schooling, Mrs Colleague, is a good means – and this should be clearly stated – to cover up youth unemployment, which – you know too, Mrs Colleague – has taken on horrendous proportions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have to find an apprenticeship wound from last year to this day from 15 percent – these are numbers that cannot simply be swept off the table – and an increase in youth unemployment compared to the previous year by 13 percent! We currently have 40,765 unemployed young people. This proposal on the extension of compulsory education until 18. But life is really a helpless undertaking and ultimately a confession of guilt. It is also a non-worldly proposal, because it does not involve the costs at all. Mr Niederweiser! You have spoken about what the recessors cost every year, so I ask you: Have you calculated what it would cost, compulsory schooling until 18. Expand life? – But also Your Vienna Socialist Councillor Scholz has said that one should not design programmes that are unfinancing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. DDr. Decliner.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer! If you're talking about a relaxation of the advertising ban, I have to say, of course, it's clear, because: There is less and less money for schools, so you have to think about where money comes from. But to abuse young people, to let them run through the area as changing Litfass column – let me have this flowery comparison – or as an advertising carrier with Parmalat cappers or similar, I also find it very worrying. All in all: These are ideas or ideas of the government parties, namely government parties who are helpless and inactive and are aimed at ultimately developing a typical one-time student who is oriented to the uniform average,...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3642	I would ask that the final sentence be terminated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3657	... with which the youth and the future generations are truly doing a bad job.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3687	The next speaker is Mrs Schaffenrath. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3709	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of this current hour is the current school reform package. The situation as such is, of course, already up-to-date and unfortunately will remain up-to-date after the implementation of this so-called reform package. We have 100 000 students with negative grades, we have 50 000 repetitious students, of which 4,000 are shamefully also in elementary schools. We have a budget for re-help of 1.6 billion schilling, and especially during this time, school pressure and school anxiety determine everyday school life. It is really surprising for me, as you, Mrs Minister, are probably using Parliament as a PR organization, to forget that your announcements in this so-called reform package unfortunately do not come back. The term "reform package" is also simply wrong: I cannot recognize reforms in this package. Unfortunately, this shows the manuscript of structural depositaries, but reform will is not recognizable. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If You carry this package, I can't take you seriously anymore in future educational discussions. For us liberals, education has a central importance, for us liberals is the key to a self-determined life and ultimately a building block for the cultural, social and economic prosperity of a society. In order to create the best conditions for this, we need a truly autonomous school, a democratically written school in which all students can actually develop themselves under the best educational conditions, involving the social component and in the context of world openness, diversity and self-determination. The school must therefore be open to all, including minorities, including the disabled. The right to indivisible and unrestricted integration is a question of human rights for us Liberals! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Through the provisions you submit with this draft, integration in the area of secondary level I remains a grace which you can grant as far as possible if various small-cared framework conditions are met. We liberals stand for a common school for all students – at least in primary education – in which all students are best encouraged their individual possibilities in the context of internal differentiation. This common school must be a school without fear. It is the notes that cause this pressure and ultimately this fear. It can be proved that this system of point-note assessment is not suitable to represent objective performance. Therefore, this Point note system at least throughout primary school replaced by the system of the direct performance template, because only in the case of the direct performance template can children actually demonstrate and demonstrate their very individual performance by using practical examples of what they can really learn and what they have learned. The numbering note does not increase performance, but only employs an army of remedial institutions. The absurd repetition – with 45 000 to 50,000 students in Europe at the forefront – is pedagogically pointless, depressing and costs only a lot of money. If you're talking about getting up with not enough at the parents' request, then that's only music for the future. In any case, this is not the possibility in this draft! The repetition of re-examination exams is really a last stressed approach in order not to admit just how anachronistic this repetition of school levels is. We are in favour of abolishing this pedagogical crazy repetition of classes! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Allow As part of this current hour, I should also like to ask the following question: What's really true now, what are your ideas?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3769	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would ask you to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3784	What you're producing in newspapers about statements, or what's in this package? Unfortunately, I have to tell you: I see your personal design space as very limited!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3820	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I know that there is a need for savings and that the political parties should also be included in the savings, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and you, Mrs Minister, have to put the press conference of the ÖVP in the plenary session of the National Council for sparing reasons, is a little too much required of us. I feel it is a point of view, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that two days ago we received this very comprehensive draft, and today – two days after that – in principle a jubilation event from your side – nothing else is supposed to be this present hour; but we will succeed quite successfully, I think, to cross this plan. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] A jubilee event cannot be meaningful and meaningful if we have to talk about very important things. There is also no reason to do so, Mrs Minister. In view of the errors and confusion surrounding the school book action, there is no reason to do so. It is still not recognizable where the School Book Action is going. – I know, Mrs Minister, you are only partly or not responsible, but that is also part of the problem. [[Abg. DDr. Declare: We do so much that we cannot tell you everything.]] There is also no reason for jubilation if we look at the situation in foreign language teaching, where, in recent years, changes in opening figures, division numbers or reductions in the hourly table have brought about restrictions, so to speak, to the start of tomorrow's Europe. You have to imagine that! There is also no reason to rejoice when we look at the restrictions on integration. Mrs. Minister! Of course this is a step in the right direction, but an extremely modest one that you offer here! If we look at what the "life aid" writes about their experiences after two years of integration, we already have to find out – unfortunately, the "life aid" has to do so – that the right to integration we have at the public schools exists only on paper for many at the moment. That's the reality! But now go back one more step and say: In any event, there is no right to integration into secondary schools, in the AHS and in the primary school. What will be the result? – Integration cannot take place! They have even higher latte by strengthening the possibilities under which an integration class can be formed: Five students with funding needs must now be able to open an integration class. Mrs. Minister! I think with this draft you will not earn any laurels, with this draft you will fall back a step in the direction in which there is no right to integration anymore. We already have to do everything we can to enforce the right to integration in the public education sector, and we must do everything we can to extend this right. In my opinion, Mrs Minister – this is not a personal accusation to you – it is a point of view that at a time when Mr Fassleven is spreading with plans concerning the acquisition of arms of 140 billion, with his phantasteries on the acquisition of war equipment – of airplanes, tanks and defense guns – you must say at the same time, Mrs. Minister: Education must be restricted. Education must be restricted in integration, education must be restricted in terms of the possibilities of teaching foreign language in schools and so on. – It cannot be our perspective to go this way towards further restrictions in integration and in other school areas. One last point: the climb with a not enough. You have promoted it, Mrs Minister – it is no longer contained in the draft. This must be imagined: It is drummed for weeks, the climb with the not enough; then it is contained in the design in a form that can only be described as ridiculous. This is not the rule, Mrs Minister, you promised us! I would have liked it to be because it would have been a modest step in the right direction, I would have liked you to be able to see some starting points in which school policy is really moving forward! I know that under the current conditions in the government, where Mr Fassleven is spreading with his imaginative fantasies, I already know that in this situation it is difficult to give education the necessary place, but if you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, say that performance must continue to be done, then this also applies to the achievements of the Federal Government and education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3885	Mr Neugebauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the previous remarks I can now take a positive view that it is obviously our central policy concern, despite the different requirements of the individual students, to lead to the optimum development of their possibilities, depending on the performance and performance of each individual child. Although we first divide our students into class classes relatively homogeneous, it soon turns out that they – whether they reach school maturity sooner or later – are in a relatively heterogeneous group whether they have strengths or partial performance weaknesses. And I believe that this reform package, which is linked to the term "early warning system", is an essential point. I am referring to the fact that the contact with the parents' home must be intensified not only on the occasion of the school's graduation but also throughout the entire school year. Performance and performance assessment are essential elements of this reform package and an integrated part of teaching work, and not just a question before a certificate. The constant observation of the student's cooperation throughout the year is an essential point. That is how I see this initiative as particularly valuable and thank you for it. It has nothing to do with jubilation events, Mr Oellinger, if a reform package is discussed here and we have three months to deal intensively with the various positions. Mr Oellinger! I've been reading broadcasts from you lately. Of course, performance assessment is a very sensitive matter throughout school life. However, I would ask you to note that recent Union surveys of higher school students are talking about 80 percent of those who do not want to give up the need. At my school, the folk students ask me – I have respect for all those who deal with verbal assessment intensively –: Mr. Teacher, what is that really a note? How can I sort out? – You should note that the abolition of the evaluation is not a concern of the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will not be surprising if I disagree with Mr Niederwieser's comments on the question of rising with not enough. No automatic means can satisfy the career of a student and his performance. We should further develop the current system, the teacher's assessment in line with the class conference. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this initiative and invite him to discuss these concerns in the next few weeks uncomplicated, because one of us agrees: We want the school career to be a success course for each individual student and each student.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3963	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e3985	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is not surprising that, one day before the distribution of evidence, Members of Parliament are distributing prize-making negative acids to the Federal Government and to the Minister for Women. I'm allowed to calm down, Mrs. Minister: You also get positive censorships due to your explanation, because they are the very broad approaches that correspond to positive school development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] School is a complex system, school is also in a field of tension of even more complex systems, namely between economy, society and most diverse interest groups. It is therefore legitimate to rethink school again and again. It has already been said today how many students will start holiday with a negative note. I therefore welcome it all the more, Mrs Minister, that you have announced that this system, namely that it will be facilitated with a lack of sufficient capacity. One could certainly discuss this, and it is also not surprising that I am standing there in contrast to Mr Neugebauer, but I have the reason that many pupils, especially in the secondary sector, do not finish with enough, very often in the fact that the school system is still working there in accordance with a very salopp principle of drawers. Drawer on – knowledge in. After 50 minutes: drawer to – next drawer open. The complexity and the linkage of the individual content are lost. I therefore believe that it is necessary to put this system in a serious position to integrate this complex system into a holistic school system. Then it will certainly no longer be necessary to forgive so many negative acids. A sentence to the early warning system: I welcome the fact that this system should already be used in the half-year period. We also now have it with the school news and the announcement flood with "blue letters" for negative notes. But there must be a serious rethinking, because we can present statistics which say that in some schools in the field of secondary school I, when you count the sum of negative redundancies, each second student receives such an announcement. It is believed that the pupils can be motivated to complete further training until the end of the school period. The opposite is the case, however. I would also like to use this brief speech to present some thoughts on the polytechnic course. We have already achieved excellent success with the current attempts under the working title "PL 2000". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Initial evaluation results of the State School Council for Lower Austria show that the presence of teachers in this school system, although it is associated with much more work, is a much better thing than in the traditional polytechnic course. that the students are motivated to work with enthusiasm in the individual fields, but at the same time wish that even more vocational learning be built up, even more content according to a genuine professional orientation. There is a constant discussion between teachers, the economy and workers' representatives on the extension of vocational schooling. I believe that we can work with the new model for the polytechnic course in an excellent way with vocational schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To conclude: Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They have given us a lot of work for the holidays, and autumn will show what we can do.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4054	I call Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4075	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is no coincidence that the rector of the University of Economics, Otruba, has just recently spoken of a declaration of bankruptcy of Austrian education policy. Ladies and gentlemen! However, a closer look at the new SPÖ school programme, which is under discussion, is noted: The term "bankrottverlag" is a demise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because what is in the socialist school program is just apocalyptic in every normal Austrian. This school programme sees a general education requirement for all young people up to 18 years of age. Year of life before. In addition, pre-school institutions are set up. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What still lies behind the barrel here would be the demand of Mrs Brigitte Ederer for an "ideology year" in school. This is the only thing missing in the socialist school program. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ideological approach of the Social Democratic Party is also based here on an equalization, namely the fiction that all people with the same facilities, with the same talents, would be born. In fact, this school programme is based on a socialist one-man, who naturally does not exist, because all people are clearly different. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! If Mr Honecker, Mr Kossygin and Mr Breschnew had read what you agreed here, they would have enjoyed it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is colchosing, Mr Niederwieser, that is equalizing, which is a downfall in what you have done here, is not even worthy of a social-democratic party in Central Europe! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing this socialist school program clearly shows: It is nothing but the admission of total failure in apprenticeship policy, Mr Deweiser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. DDr. Lower]] That's the crucial thing. They have to note annually that fewer and fewer apprenticeships are being offered. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's what she wants, the SPÖ!]] Teaching workshops are abolished, closed, and fewer and fewer apprentices take up teaching. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: What does this have to do with our programme?]] This is very likely to have to do with your programme, because your programme, as Mrs Brinek has said, aims to create "heathouses" for those young people who find no work due to the complete failure of the socio-democratic economic and apprenticeship policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You forget, however, that you continue to devalue the apprentice! Do something for the apprentices at last! Ladies and gentlemen! The apprentice of today is the entrepreneur of tomorrow. That's the decisive thing. Do something! There's a need for action! You can't pretend that there was no apprenticeship problem in Austria. After all, they are committed to and for themselves to apprentices, in accordance with your programme of principles. What would keep you from working for them? You have introduced an apprenticeship tax, you refuse any tax advantage for apprentices, you don't do anything for the apprentices! - I know you're hurting. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: What is the professional maturity?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to refer to the spelling reform, but time will not be enough. I would just like to say one thing about spelling reform. Mrs Minister, that you pass the National Council so cold-blooded that you do not have the legal reform to debate here, democracy policy is really very worrying. I would like to refer to your party friend, Mr Schilcher, who speaks of the need to debate the legal reform in the National Council, that this is a matter of the legislator in accordance with Article 18 of the Constitution. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] According to Article 18 of the Federal Constitution, the entire administration has to be carried out by law, but this postulate is not taken into account in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4175	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4197	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's hour is really a remarkable one, and I would like to give her a headline which I address to the Federal Minister – more specifically a saying: In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent. If, two days ago, we were presented with a convoy of drafts, drafts which are now under consideration and which we would like to study in detail and in depth, but which will be made the subject of an up-to-date hour 48 hours later, then I can only thank Mr Öllinger and Mr Schaffenrath: This is the attempt to move a press conference into the form of a current hour. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] This cannot, of course, prevent me from taking up specific positions from these reform documents in this respect, but I expressly stress: Both the speaking time in an up-to-date hour and the Soon the preparatory possibilities will not allow a final judgment to be delivered in detail, but a final judgment in the whole. That is the impotent attempt to prefer to make reforms. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In reality, in these papers, what is called reforms is not even found, but it is at best retouchs. If the Federal Minister has made her contribution to the debate, in the area of integration, in the area where children need special education, the achievement of teaching objectives is not so important, but there is more to social inclusion and so on, I can only double stress this. But I ask you the question – loud and clear: Why does this correct knowledge apply only to these children? Why is it not true that it is actually more important to those who are caring for them in schools that we want them to become self-determination, self-determination people, that they have solutions, that they, of course, also achieve a certain level of knowledge? Why is that not true for all children? Why Borders Are you out of here those children who, according to your definition, have no "special education needs"? – These two words alone say everything about your human image. Who decides whether a child should be integrated or not? Does this mean that the professionals who set up their classes decide, or is this a fundamental, a human right claim? That is why I can only say: On this point you have clearly revealed yourself, because here you have presented a quite positive goal in such a way that you have been shown to conceal a human image that does not respect the human dignity of the children. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on MEPs of the Greens.]] In this sense, I would also like to expressly contradict Mr Krüger. This is not a question of equal opportunities, it is not a question of equal gifts and facilities, but of equal dignity, which is a question of equal opportunities. This means that those who might, if they were not promoted, have fewer opportunities in life to enforce themselves need to promote more. A second aspect, which is not mentioned at all in this package: Where is the reform in the field of teacher training, where is there only one approach, a hint of a reform of the law in the field of teachers, where there are still centrifugating effects? That's totally missing! In this sense, I believe that although it is interesting to study this convoy of drafts, it is only the false appearance that reforms are taking place. I conclude my speech again with the saying, Mrs Bundesminister: In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4269	I call Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4290	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP can be proud to maintain its record of success, which it has drawn up in 1988, to date. In the success report of the XVIII. GP is listed as the "success" of the ÖVP: No integration of mentally disabled children in the AHS. Meaningful integration of disabled children into the national and special school. Mrs. Minister! This path you take in the XVIII. GP for itself and your ÖVP have committed, keep up with all means. And your draft law shows that you stand by the rights of disabled children and continue to violate human rights to the greatest. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] You will probably not assume that disabled people as well as the parents of disabled children and dedicated special school teachers will continue to be deceived by you! § 15 para. 3 Your draft law says quite specifically what you think of integration by writing down there – I quote: "In the context of social integration, pupils with special educational needs should, as far as possible, teach education corresponding to the primary school." This sentence alone continues to be a clear rejection of integration into the AHS. Disabled children do not occur in the AHS area. § 15 para. 3 contains the clear statement that by writing "in the context of the possibilities" you still have the right to determine who is allowed to go into integration classes or who is not. – Ms. Minister! It's inhuman, it's a human rights violation! At last take note of this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! Take note, too, that in the AHS field, you now have to determine that the maximum number of disabled children must be at least five in order to be able to install an integration class at all. However, what you have not determined is how high the maximum number may be. You would have to know if They would have dealt only with a hint of integration pedagogy that four disabled children in an integration class must be the upper limit. You do not need to believe that you can perform pseudointegration by placing 80 percent disabled children in an AHS class, and then try to fill the rest with unimpeded children. That's not integration! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! I find the following even more than extraordinary: In your draft, you try to separate disability by clearly stating that there is a serious difference in integration measures between children with disabilities and children with special educational needs. Please note: Disabled children, disabled people are disabled children and disabled people, and they must not be divided in any way. You, Mrs Minister, do not have the right to separate people with disabilities and to disassemble them in terms of their disability. - If not, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It will certainly have had its reason, Mrs Minister, that you are a French woman...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4366	I would ask for the final sentence, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4381	,... when the integration symposium took place in Innsbruck, although the French-leighing procession went along, it was not worth the effort to attend this convention for only five minutes. I think that attitude...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4399	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4415	... shows what you think about integration: nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4445	I declare the current hour ended. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4466	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4666	Mr Vanner and Mr Comrades asked that the written question to the Federal Chancellor concerning electoral fraud against pensioners be dealt with urgently before the entry into the agenda for today's meeting. Since this request is aimed at carrying out urgent procedure at the earliest possible time, I use those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which provide that an urgent request will be made at 4 p.m. in this case. Request for a question answer
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4690	The request, supported by 20 Members of Parliament, has also been made that a meeting be held on the reply to Question No 483/J by Dr Jörg Haider and comrades concerning a special contract for a section head by Mr Bundeskanzler prior to the entry into the agenda. As the present part-session held a current hour and in addition the urgent debate on a written question has just been decided, this meeting shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the sitting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4717	As far as today's agenda is concerned, the debate on points 2 and 3 and 4 to 6 of today's agenda is planned. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4745	In the Presidency, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: For the debate on item 1 and for the joint debate on points 4 to 6, a speaking time of two "Vienna hours" shall be given, with the following speaking times: SPÖ 30, ÖVP 28, Freeman 26, Liberal Forum and Green 18 minutes. The joint debate on points 2 and 3 will be set at six "Vienna hours". This results in speaking times: SPÖ 90, ÖVP 84, Free 78, Liberal and Green 54 minutes. I ask whether there are objections to this proposal. - That's not the case. This is what the National Council has decided to do. 1. Point Communication on the appointment of a member of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4780	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. This is a communication on the appointment of a member of the Federal Government. In line with the demand already announced for § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, we are now entering the debate. I have just announced the speaking times. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Crockery. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4804	Mr President. High house! On behalf of the Federal Chancellor, I would like to begin the debate first and report briefly on this outcome. Just over two weeks ago, Federal Minister Johannes Ditz informed me that he no longer wanted to be a member of the Federal Government. I had to take note of this. I expressly regret this, because I believe that in the ten years that Johannes Ditz has been listening to the Federal Government in part for several years, he has done essential things for Austria, but also for the Federal Government and, above all, for economic policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Johannes Ditz has been through State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance for a number of years, in this position – in very good coordination with the then Minister of Finance Ferdinand Lacina – he has designed and also implemented two very important tax reforms that have significantly improved the economic location of Austria in Europe and around the world. He was then in the position of the Minister for Economic Affairs, when I proposed him as my successor to the House, essentially responsible for the fact that what we found necessary before the election, namely a comprehensive budgetary consolidation, could really be negotiated – together with Viktor Klima, whom I would like to thank for it. I did not like to let Johannes Ditz go, but I have to respect his reasons. I have found a successor within two days, of which I believe he can do the work – and it is an important and difficult work in the Ministry of Economic Affairs – very well. We therefore propose to you Dr. Johannes Farnleitner, an experienced economic politician. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Can one also reject the proposal?]] Dr. Johannes Farnleitner is certainly not an unknown person in economic policy. For decades he has been in the Advisory Board on Economic and Social Affairs Pre-thinkers, thinkers, sometimes also cross-thinkers, but always one who has been very constructive in the economic debate and design of Austria. This advisory board is indeed something that is not available all over the world in this form, because the social partners are something like a "think tank" in the interests of the country, a "think factory", in which – beyond their own interest horizon – they are trying to find joint solutions that are important for the population, for jobs, for prosperity, for the country as a whole. In this role, Johannes Farnleitner has been a member for decades, often also President of the Advisory Council – which is well known to rotate – and he has also been responsible for important studies, such as for the industrial location of Austria, for competition law, for studies on employment security in Austria, for several budget studies on how to consolidate the federal budget, including for the important project "Education 2000". He was most recently responsible for the entire export industry in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, and in this respect we must remember that we have to produce more than 40 percent of our national income in the toughest competition year after year in the export of goods and services, i.e. industrial and tourism combined. Johannes Farnleitner therefore knows, as hardly anyone else, the areas of work which the Ministry of Economic Affairs has to manage. As a Supervisory Board in various institutions and companies, he has also been responsible for the energy industry in Austria – for example, he was a Supervisory Board in the combined company – but of course returns all these mandates and functions in order to lead the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the future. So Hannes Farnleitner comes from the social partners – and I am surprised that some media have experienced a very critical response. I would like to say quite frankly: I see this as an advantage and certainly not a disadvantage to Hannes Farnleitner and the country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think it is an advantage if someone in the field of work, for which he is now responsible, knows and does not have to take time to enter. I think it's an advantage, my Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone can act from the first day. – Hannes Farnleitner did this by driving to Luxembourg on his first working day to attend the Council meeting of the Energy Ministers of the European Union, which adopted one of the most important directives for the energy industry in Europe and also in Austria. I think it is an advantage if one does not have to beg for a period of time which does not give one the opposition in today's times. I think it is an advantage if someone negotiates with the economy, but also with the trade unions and with the workers' chambers, if the social partners get together at the green table, so to speak, instead of mobilising the street. I think it is an advantage if, in this country of Austria, compromises – sometimes even laborious compromises – are reached together, as continuous oil, to be poured into the fire and to incite conflicts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, from the first day of his duties, the new Minister of Economic Affairs has a single goal and a single task: to be responsible for Austria and the whole, his oath to the Republic – not partial interests and not yet legitimate lobbys. I expect that from him, and I give him three more personal expectations along the way: The first – and most important – is that we have to create work and secure work, but of course not with the recipes of the 1960s or 1970s, but with the most modern possibilities of a modern economic policy; not with debt or burdens, but with a modern economic policy based on the skills of employees, the possibilities of technicians and investors and the enormous potential in the field of business. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In terms of job creation, we have just discussed a point in the current hour, which is incredibly important: Education. ==References====External links== ==References== Knowledge is what we must first and foremost communicate so that young people can compete in a tough competition. And our capital is not energy and land, which are buried somewhere in the earth, but especially the young people. This is to mobilise, motivate. In this respect, I expect the Minister for Education, Science and Education to work together with the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that in addition to an alliance, a fair and proper alliance for work, which includes flexibilizations, modernisations, liberalisations, deregulations, but always keeps in mind that this is necessary for the common advantage of all those acting, i.e. the economy, but also workers, jobs and investors - not one alone must have the advantage. I expect a modern Minister of Economic Affairs to get the Austrian company under control, together with all the other politicians; that 50 percent of the gross domestic product we are responsible for. The private sector can help itself, but around 50 percent are redistributed – hopefully fair and fair – by the public sector, and this is a lot: by shortening the service routes, by purchasing public services, by privatization, by faster administrative procedures. The new Minister of Economic Affairs, together with the countries and communities, has a rich field of activity. Finally, I expect an export offensive in this area, because we must not forget that at the moment the economy is almost exclusively supported by exports. Thanks to EU accession, we achieved 8 percent real export growth last year. In comparison: Germany: 3 per cent, Switzerland, which is not with the Union: less than 2 per cent. And there the Austrian Minister of Economic Affairs, especially in Europe, is to take the course in Brussels. We want an aggressive market opening policy to allow Austrian companies to have opportunities on world markets. I would also like the European Commission to understand itself as an attorney for Austrian export interests in Asia, America, Latin America, wherever in the world, and that will be one of the main issues of European policy in the near future. We politicians should and must support the export industry in doing so, such as Federal President Kletyl and I myself did in Turkey two days ago, as the Federal Chancellor does at the moment in Saudi Arabia, or Mrs State Secretary Benita Ferrero-Waldner in Latin America. This is of course part of the relationship between politics and the economy today, and this is to be achieved by a modern Minister of Economic Affairs. The second major issue is Europe - and I have already said a few things - because we must not forget that we are still in the lead with the implementation of the European directives by about 85 per cent, and I want us to become more active and self-confident in this regard. Since the Minister for Economic Affairs is essentially the Minister for the Internal Market, which means that he must negotiate and take responsibility across borders for other departments in Brussels, this will be one of the most important areas of his work. And last but not least, I want to close it, I expect the new Minister of Economic Affairs to make it as good an axis as Johannes Ditz did with the old, but relatively new Minister of Finance, Viktor Klima, because one thing said: With the two budgets for 1996 and 1997, we have provided the conditions for us to be able to participate in the euro, but above all we can better ensure our location – but all of this is not yet secured. In my opinion, an iron saving is necessary, especially in the implementation of the two budgets and beyond the years 1996 and 1997, because only then can we get through without further restructuring packages. This is an assignment that meets all of us, but above all John Farnleitner, as one of the main negotiators, is to be given along the way. That's why "Glory up!" for the new activity – in the interest of the country and a good cooperation with the government groups, but also with the three opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4883	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e4904	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a remarkable statement by Dr. We just heard about the bowl. He has, as it were, given a speech of graves for the Tussel-Dez-Course, which was presented to the voters a few months ago as the model for the future of Austria. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Objection to the ÖVP]] But after a few months apparently this bowl-ditz course is no longer up-to-date, at least the essential designer of it has agreed. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We are about the content, not the names!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I understand that this is not very pleasant for you, this embarrassment now. Perhaps you should be a little more careful at the advertising messages in the future and just use the first names, because the new minister is at least John – that is the only thing that has remained of Ditz. I believe that the applause which you have given to Mr Ditz, who has worked so well, was a little hypocritical, especially when Mrs Fekter gave such a stormy applause about which Mr Ditz said in his departure: "It runs around like a withdrawn hand grenades, because it wants to become political in Upper Austria." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] And on that she applauds and says: Thank you for the great achievements that have been done. This is also the reason, ladies and gentlemen, why the new Minister of Economic Affairs has received a somewhat inconspicuous reception, not because he would not be professionally qualified, but because it was simply suspicious, in what circumstances, the so-called Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, who has made huge announcements in Parliament a few days before, he will adopt and say: I don't like it anymore! I've got enough! I resigned! I don't get through with my ideas. It is understandable that then a certain suspicion arises and one says: Aha, is there someone who has proposed to open this country as the vice-gans have now announced? He spoke of a dynamic minister of economics who also opens the market opportunities abroad, who here clears away a lot of what exists in Austria in barriers. That was exactly the message of the Lord Ditz, which he always gave of himself. And now comes one who has been sought out of that area that is actually responsible for the resignation of Ditz. It comes directly from the chamber area. Therefore, the question now arises: What is he, this new Minister of Economic Affairs? In the comment not always received kindly: As a gifted intellectual from the Catholic men's movement, but also as a grey mouse coming from a chamber institution, he is referred to as a superman highly praised in some comments, but also as a fleshed chamber state representative, now sitting on the government bench. - I don't know what he really is. Chief Editor Ortner said in the "Economics Week": This signal that put the bowl was a signal, but it was a wrong one. - I don't know if it was a wrong one. You'll see it in the future. The expectations, I would say, are certainly very high among those who have been waiting for economic policy to be made in Austria in the sense of improving framework conditions. It is already significant: That's where the vice chancellor makes himself and says: I am giving this new Minister of Economic Affairs three points on the way – one of them: to improve the opportunities for our young people to learn, to enable our young people to have good apprenticeships. – This is said by a man who for years led the Ministry of Economic Affairs and had had the opportunity to prepare this way for apprentices and apprentice training as the minister responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Schüssel didn't succeed, Ditz didn't succeed – perhaps in the third run, Mr. Minister! [[Call the ÖVP: The Haider is not at all!]] I wish you all the best in this way that you may now be doing what the two others have not brought together. You've done nothing good by giving out to the public all the candidates in question after Ditz has resigned. There were quite other people in the conversation. And that is why the impression is that this has somehow been a third choice. . I hope not, Dr. Schüssel, that you have decided from this point of view after many others have refused you, because then the impression is rightly expressed in some comments: Kussel-Dez-Course completed – back to the start! Now come the darklings of the chamber state, the lockup, the regulation, the nothing-to-do, the bureaucracy increase. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that this would be good for Austria in the present situation. You, of course, Minister Farnleitner, have some mortgages in all your professional qualifications that you bring here. One of the mortgages is that you have been in this ominous dairy fund with a major actor – and you must not forget that completely. [[Oh, call the liberals.]] They were one of the Vice-Presidents of the Milk Economic Fund, which was actually abolished as an unwholesome red-black product, because the liberals in this Parliament were able to enforce an investigation committee and prove that there were many irregularities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To remember: 1 billion Schilling Farmers' money was used in a somewhat strange way in relation to 55 to 45 percent between the black Raiffeisenkasse and the red BAWAG, of which no one knew anything. That was the typical moral image of this chamber state, which many fear, who now say: I hope that this Johannes Farnberger is now an blatant John when he comes into office, and not the same one we have experienced in the dairy fund, who has understood that there, which in the end has been able to carry out free control in Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Farnleitner is his name!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: You're talking about someone else!]] I therefore believe, Minister of State, that it is good if we say to the liberals: These are the mortgages you take with you... – you change the ministers so quickly that you can't even remember the names again. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That's the problem. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] But we want you to face justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Federal Minister Dr. Schüssel: "Alzi"!]] I believe it is good, ladies and gentlemen... – The Alzheimer often gets through a little bit with you because you forget what you have already promised, and promise us again and again. [[Call the ÖVP:Alzheimer! Alzheimer's!]] You are from the Alzheimer's group, I would say, my dear friends – and not the liberals. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] But we want to be fair and say: The Minister should be measured by his own statements and actions. He put mortgages in office. We believe, however, that if he really wants to, he can also show that the criticism points that have appeared in the run-up are unwarranted. And you have many ways to prove that. We were not quite satisfied with your gifts if you said in a newspaper interview: The Austrians have the obligation to buy at home. – This sounds like a little Christian-social command economy from the 1930s, which actually has nothing to do with a modern market economy that the vice-chanc today has spoken about. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't understand from both!]] Mr Khol! If anyone does not understand anything about the economy, then you are sure, because you have not even noticed that the price still regulates the decision of the consumer – and not the order of the Minister of Economic Affairs where you can buy. [[Complaints with the liberals]] In a market economy organization, we want to give the consumer the freedom to choose the best possible but also the cheapest product. And if there is so much purchasing power flow, you have to think about why there is so much purchasing power outflow under an EIA economic policy in recent years, which carries billions abroad and destroys jobs in Austria, but then buys the Austrians: Now you have to stay there and shop at home! This is not a solution, but that means that the framework conditions need to be improved accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, It is not an economic policy that we support, when it says, that savings must be directed towards state enterprises. This is not the way, but the way must be for you, Mr Minister, to make every effort – including in the negotiations with the Minister of Finance – to solve the open privatisation issues once. For many years, the CA has been "privateized". In reality, it's about the typical red-black deal again: The Reds say we have directed the Bank-Austria while the Blacks have slept to privatize CA. So we want a new price now. You must give us the P.S.K. bank. The P.S.K. If you have to give us reds, you can build your small bank empire between First Austrian and CA. - That's the truth. Is this the privatisation policy we'll expect? Or: It is so much about competition, about cost avoidance – stupidly tells us that every week in several press conferences and statements – and then at the first Council of Ministers meeting you took part in, Minister, a rehabilitation package for the hospitals, through which the economy has to cope again. Or is it not a burden if the economy now has to pay the health certificate fee? The same Chamber of Commerce from which you come criticizes this and says: 43 000 people are already working at a zero rate, free of charge in the Austrian enterprises for carrying out the tasks of the state. Now, as a new Minister of Economic Affairs, you say that comes from this institution that criticizes: Yeah, we're multiplying the free work for the state in the businesses, they're gonna have more bureaucracy to do. What I would have expected of you would have been that you would have said – every minister can prevent anything, the principle of unanimity applies to decisions –: I do not agree for so long, as long as a collection fee for the previous state benefits is not introduced in that country. – That would have been a good understanding! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! Why should it really be like this: If the local health care phone collects contributions to pension insurance, there is a remuneration between the state agencies, but if the businesses work for the state free, there is nothing – zero rate, free work! 43 000 people have to do slave work for the state free of charge, and this work is now being increased in a separate way through the health care package. Today it is read in the newspapers that now the parking tax for company parking is added. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Absurd!]] Why Cannot You're not on the table and you're saying, Get away with this nonsense!Unknown term type: "%s".? – "Wurstsemmelerlass", parking tax for company parking places – these are all things that only increase bureaucracy in the businesses and make the cost calculation more difficult. You have to drive in there, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: Load opening time. I don't think we have a lot of time to fix these things. You yourself said: If we don't bring anything together, we're threatened with an Albanianization of Austria. So prevent You're the Albanianization of Austria! I am convinced that you have many opportunities to prove by concrete measures now that this new Minister for Economic Affairs knows where he really needs to start. You said you wanted to be one for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's okay. But then you must also start where it really hurts the farms today. Then you also have to make order where there are only more head shakes. You have the opportunity to make order also in the ministry, with what Ditz has incubated to you, namely that he has suddenly pushed the head of the Austrian advertising press to the storage track – with full references! A "hunderter" will continue to be paid. But he was pushed to the storage track so that Mr Ditz could accommodate his press secretary there. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's something that's not acceptable, these are things you can turn off right away. These are actions that have nothing more to do with an objective reform policy that you are trying to put forward. This is the same as the Minister's climate: Climate comes into office, takes over five personal secretaries from the divorcing Minister Staribacher and brings with them 16 other personal secretaries. Now there's 21 in the number. These have special contracts with overtime paychecks, which you now abolish for all the others. But in the ministries we have special contracts with the overtime breaks, 70, 80 hours for the special contract holders. – These are things you need to abolish, because the economy has the feeling that there are two measures here. Mr Puttinger, out there, talks about the need to relieve the economy, but there is exactly the opposite on the government bank: Covering it, closing it, maintaining the abuses, instead of avoiding costs and setting up a transparent government administration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same with the Landeskrankenkasse. Minister! I ask you: Break up this cartel of the prizemakers! There are a few companies working on the federal innung, the Chamber of Commerce, together with the main association of social insurance companies that acquire up to 1,200 percent trading margins without allowing an open market. In the last urgent debate, the Socialists have disputed the fact that there is a pact between the main association and federal union. There's a letter from the 14th century. June 1996, by Mr Dkfm. Drimal from the Chamber of Commerce to the Secretary-General Günter Stummvoll, in which: The ARGE Orthopedics – to which it has gone – was established in agreement with the main association in order to take these and those measures. – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. We know Drimal's letter: "in agreement with the main association." [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Confidential" is up!]] This package has been disputed at the expense of market prices. If you drive in there, then you don't need a health certificate fee, then you don't need to raise contributions for pensioners, then you don't need any extra taxes, no self retention! In this jungle, make order, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! I am very excited about how you will address the problems with too many foreign trade promotion contributions. 5 billion schillings have been lost to the domestic economy by the foreign trade promotion contributions that the Federal Chamber has collected – unjustly since the EEA accession. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I haven't gotten anything yet!]] A knowledge of the Constitutional Court is legally valid. - But no one is responsible for it. The Minister of Finance says: I didn't, I just picked up for the chamber. The board says: Neither do we, we just got the money from the Minister and we actually already consumed it. How will you relieve the domestic economy? There you talk about 10 or 15 million Schilling more for the BÜRGES action in Austria. This is a great success for the domestic economy. At the same time, however, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has five billion Schilling in its own economic representation. The company Schenker, Mr. Maderthaner, alone has 500 million schilling to get. When will this be solved? When will there be an order? Minister! In reality, this will be the baptism of fire for you, whether you are able to provide, as a supervisory body, also your own Chamber of Commerce for order, in the interests of the domestic economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise, you have to feel that this is going in the wrong direction. Otherwise, you have to do that. Have a feeling: What is now being presented to us on new economic policy objectives is really a mixture of Albanian economic philosophy, Vatican world openness and Austrian proporcism. [[Cheerfulness at the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] That won't work, ladies and gentlemen. We have therefore put these demands on you, because these are concrete measures where you can show that you are serious about what you have said in individual newspaper interviews. It is important to secure jobs. It's been a lot of fun when you said: We need to do something now! Employment can only be secured in small and medium-sized enterprises. I totally agree with you. Where, then, is this mid-term programme that your predecessors have always talked about?- Oh, my God! When's this coming? I would like you to know something more about this so that you know what it really is. You cannot say that jobs will be created if you are in a government that has only produced unemployed in recent years, but you must once show the way. I've seen how the pingpong goes: Here in Parliament, Mr Vrannitzky said last week in his speech: Only together in the EU will we be able to combat unemployment and create new jobs. Then we went to an EU conference in Rome on the weekend, and there Mr Dini said: It is unfortunately sending the debate on jobs at the Intergovernmental Conference in Florence. .Shipping, he said, it's her. – This is what the nation states themselves have to do. – So a pingpong: once EU, once national states – what is true now? Where are the competences now? You have huge opportunities to create a slim state, to realize things that are your own concern, and you know very well where you need to start. But you should also allow low taxes. The study of the INFO Institute in Munich, which has just appeared, clearly says: Lower and lower taxes also benefit the state because they will ultimately move the revenues and the dynamization of the economy in such a way that under the rule more is taken for the State. Do this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Finally, by means of legal initiatives, implement what is necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive, namely a tax regime that treats the unabsorbed profits tax-privileged. That is, a company that has earned money and that money as a host host, as a master carpenter, as a mechanic, should not be taxed as if it were taken out for private consumption. Create You need this option, then you don't need subsidies, then you only need more than half as much support if you are able to develop the company that is diligent, and reinvest the money you've drawn up, tax advantage! This is the best investment promotion, the best job security you can make. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Third area, where we put hopes in you, is the question of the new corporate culture. How do we start new companies? – Nothing has been presented in this respect so far. It is nice when Mr. Vice-Chancellor now speaks of "Ally for Work" – that was our title at the urgent question at the special meeting: Alliance for work with concrete proposals. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's something else!]] Maybe we'll get together. It should not be so that only the opposition can always be accepted by the Minister, perhaps once Mr Vice-Chancellor is inclined to take up proposals of the opposition and to say: It is not so wrong that the liberals have put in proposals here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, these new companies also need framework conditions that give them the opportunity to succeed from the outset, which give them optimism in the way. That is, the way of the removal of the loss talks has been an adventurously worse. They will not be able to give incentives to young entrepreneurs. You've got to correct that as quickly as possible! However, they must also open up those areas where access restrictions are concerned. I had a discussion at the WU yesterday, where a young businessman got up and said: Do you know what bothered me the most? I am opening my business, I have not yet been able to earn any schilling, and I have had to pay 8 000 s of admission fee at the Chamber of Commerce. I didn't deserve anything at all, I didn't make any sales yet, but the board was already there and stopped the hand. – This is not an economic promotion! This is not a promotion of young entrepreneurs! Save You can correct your plateaus with the foundational saving, you can correct these things once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is the cost of getting involved by someone who wants to become self-employed? It's pure culture in the future! An operation is included! [[Abg. Aumayr: Body owner!]] He'll be eaten! He'll become an institution! Ladies and gentlemen! That is what needs to be eliminated! Or: the many restrictions on access in the concession tests. Why, then, does the Chamber really have to decide in the chamber state whether the conditions for admission to the concession test are granted? A bureaucrat decides whether a person is qualified to make an examination! Let him do the test! He pays the exam fee, he takes the risk if he wants to be self-employed. – These are things that can really be eliminated, and I know that from your experience you could very soon take the right steps to bring light into the darkness of this bureaucratic everyday life of companies. Fourth expectation: liberalisation of the trade system. Many of the proposals that are on the table should finally be implemented. It is ridiculous, what is being argued about here in Austria: whether the baker is allowed to make a cake, whether the carpenter is allowed to do dreechsler's work, whether the carer is allowed to sell a fish salad or not, whether the truck operator or bus operator is allowed to give out only in the state of standing Coca-Cola or even during driving. – Please, these are all crazy things that are regulated in Austria, things that need to be removed as quickly as possible. Fifth expectation are the apprentices. You really have to set accents in apprenticeship training, not in the form that your Federal Chamber of Commerce has propagated by publishing a circular letter that the apprentice compensations are to be frozen because the apprentices are so expensive. No, that's not the way! . You should try to ensure that firms receive a decommissioning amount for apprenticeship training. That company, which is struggling to train young people, should also be able to assert this tax. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They should introduce a basic vocational education year as soon as possible instead of the polytechnic course in order to finally eliminate this void in the polytechnic course, this loss year. As a learned social partners in negotiations, they should make it clear that apprentices are not called into vocational school in high season, otherwise firms will be whistling on it, and young people will not have training. – All this, however, requires concrete action. Finally, we also expect you, Minister, to bring in what you have correctly recognized in relation to the EU. You said, in a newspaper interview, that it was actually being misnegotiated: We're in the promotion trap. Mr Farnleitner – still as Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber of Commerce – said: Austria has gone too far in its accession negotiations. These should now be paid by correspondingly high membership contributions. The renegotiation of net payers in 1999 should negotiate the removal of subsidies and the reduction of net payments. - Great thing! It's in the liberal program! You are our ally, Minister! You're really our ally if you're serious. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So you see, there are many expectations, including many commons where we want to support you. We will support you if you really become active in these areas. It should not be so that the opposition says: Because it comes from the EIA Minister for Economic Affairs, you have to say no. If these are your ideas in the sense of our philosophy, as I have outlined them here – and there you can take us by word – then we will support you. But if they are not, you will meet the full criticism of us liberals. I hope, however, that you will bring something together in the interests of the Austrian economy and jobs, and I wish you all the best for your difficult task.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5266	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5288	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now having a debate on the appointment of a new member of the government, and this item on the agenda, but also the reports of the Minister of Finance and the new Minister for Economic Affairs, give us the opportunity to discuss principles of government policy. And I have missed these principles on economic and social policy with Mr Deputies and Mr Klubobmann Dr. Haider. I have heard comments on comments in the newspapers, I have heard proposals that have been made over and over again, but not fundamental economic policy programmes of the Freedom Party. – However, I must admit one thing: Dr. Haider distinguished something in his assessment of the new Minister of Economic Affairs. The resignation of Hannes Ditz as Minister of Economic Affairs offers the opportunity to assess his work, assess his expertise, enforcement and his compatibility with the major tax reforms in 1989 and 1994, in the nationalization, privatisation and the balanced savings package, combined with the new necessary impulses for investment, and to put out his merits here in particular. Dr. Ditz deserves our recognition and our thanks, but also our respect for his decision to resign as Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He felt that his own profile of the country's use was no longer entirely in line with his own requirements and has therefore taken the consequence. The design of the Schüssel-Ditz course is a responsible future programme that we all want to support and implement in the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just like at the time, the Raab Kamitz course, which laid the foundation for the later economic miracle and our current prosperity in the difficult post-war years... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: A long time ago!]] Yes, you're right! But I would like to remind you of one, Mr. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Both came from the economy at that time, Dr. Kamitz came from the Chamber of Commerce organization because there is a place for openness, for thinkers in the interests of the whole of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Remember the media and oppositional "welcome greeting" that Johannes Ditz, who has rightly appreciated today at the beginning of his career as a finance secretary. Today he is in the media – I quote – the political hero of debureaucratisation, liberalisation and deregulation. At that time it said: He is one who has grown up in the Industrial Union and the Party, which is thus legitimated by nothing for this office. – The comments on the appointment of business expert Dr. Johannes Farnleitner to the Minister for Economic Affairs are similar. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel wants competence and continuity in government work to continue the right course for Austria. While the media have differentiated the appointment of Dr. Farnleitner and partially indiscriminately recorded, the opposition parties in the first opinions consistently take very negative arguments. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Allow me to ask you a few questions: What causes you, Mr. Dr. Prinzhorn, to say that Dr. Schüssel led the ÖVP back to a time of economic policy by ordering Dr. Farnleitner? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Question hour is tomorrow!]] Mr Mag. Peter – he is not in the house – where do you see the clear signal towards the preservation of the system and hope for satisfaction of the lobbys? And in what way do you justify, Mr Van der Bellen, your acceptance, the dialogue in the field of environmental matters become more difficult? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] It clearly shows: You don't know Dr. Farnleitner, but you work with assumptions, assumptions that are justified by nothing and express the actual bias, even, ladies and gentlemen, absoluteistic thoughts from the past century show! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do you believe that the credibility of politics is a service? Dr. Farnleitner brings all the conditions for the task as Minister of Economic Affairs: He is an economic thinker, a proven negotiator in Austria, but also in the European Union and internationally far beyond Europe, for example in America, Japan, recognised as a specialist. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the motivation of Dr. Schüssel to propose Dr. Farnleitner as Minister of Economic Affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We wish him much success for his tasks! He will give further impetus to the eco-social course of the Austrian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic report of the Economic Research Institute of June confirms the correct course of the Federal Government. And from this I would like to quote: "Despite unfavourable economic reports and announced budgetary savings measures, the tendency to consume remained largely intact. The awareness of the budgetary problems and the need for incisive countermeasures are not likely to have hit the population entirely unsuspectably." It also says: "The comprehensive reform programme adopted by Parliament in April in the context of a joint budget proposal for 1996 and 1997 should allow a rapid consolidation and reduction of the deficit to a quota of less than 3% of the gross domestic product next year. This credible recovery step could not only strengthen the confidence of households and businesses in the ability of economic policy to act in the longer term." Ladies and gentlemen! The population, the people, the entrepreneurs, the businesses know the government work and economic policy and also the bowl-ditz-, now Schüssel-Farnleitner-Vranitzky-Climate-Climate-Course very well estimated and act accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our ideas for a secure future have been presented here by Mr. Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. These are mainly in line with budgetary expenditure, but also in the courage to reform. These challenges are aware of all of us, and we confess, first of all, because we have been led by competition from other regions of the world to rethink, and secondly because of the fact that we are going to enter working life later, work shorter, but want to enjoy our retirement longer. The Federal Government partially reacts to these changes with painful interventions there and there. But I think the population has caught it: We do this in the interests of Austria and in the interests of the Austrians. The government accepts this responsibility, it responds, and that is very important. It is important to implement a practice-oriented education policy with high permeability of the educational channels. We discussed it today in the current hour, the programme is ahead, and it will be carried out. It is important to enforce the promotion of the creation of young businesses. It is important to promote the flexibility of working hours; industry-oriented models have already been developed by the collective partners. In the next few days, applications will be submitted here in the house. It is important to abolish the shocks in the company's everyday lives, through the concentration of procedures and the reduction of long-term procedures. It is a matter of strengthening Austria's economic location! And it must also be made a rule of law from the State of appeal. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic report of the Economic Research Institute has shown that the Austrians are going this way with us. Let us try, also from the side of the opposition – in part, I have to admit, Mr Haider argues differently – to go this way together. I am convinced that the Federal Government's design and optimism are supported by Dr. Farnleitner and are given new impetus to continue our way in the interests of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5387	Mrs Dr Schmidt has now been reported to speak. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5408	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! High house! Now we have a new government for about four months and we already have the first government reform. However, this is a progress towards the last legislative period, which I would like to call a "lost year" in line with many journalistic commentators. In the last legislative period, we had only a six-month government reform, but then a change of four ministers. And a month later, the ÖVP was with another package. That is to say, last year alone, we had a change of eight ministers and a vice chancellor. In view of this fact, we are still good at this moment. Who knows what's going on? In this context, however, I also notice that those who are particularly familiar with the budget have thrown the towel: These were Lacina, Staribacher and Ditz. That's worrying. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: At Staribacher I protest!]] But he was familiar with the budget, wasn't he? – That’s your assessment, it was your coalition partner. In any case, this allows me to say something about the budgetary truth. In any case, I see at Minister Ditz a consequence that speaks for him, namely the consequence he has drawn from the inability of the reform, not only the government, but in particular his own party. This inability to reform can be demonstrated on a number of points, which I would like to extend to the concept of political inability, both sides of the coalition. It's politics called shaping. Let me just say the following: The division of competence, which would have been essential to the design capacity, has expired after the old pattern of knitting, namely, after the old teaching of colour, according to the pattern of the party advantage, for otherwise – behind me Mr. Vice-Chancellor – we could not have been a State Secretary in the foreign office, because on and for himself these tasks could be done by a Secretary-General – as a discharge – and otherwise we would have integrated the Ministry of Health into the Ministry of Social Affairs. But I admit that we would have put together two red ministries, and this is obviously not in interest – because of the figures. But we would not have – this is a special curiousness – given the transport resort to the Minister of Science and Culture. This lack of design has also been seen in the savings package. And if you have listened to my colleague, Tichy-Schreder, you will have noticed that she has spoken with a very strong voice, but you have heard a lot of joy from it. I was, honestly, trying to say "Amen." She gave great praise to the future Minister. From this praise, I agree with you that, the joy has come that there is now a change in you. Obviously, you trust him with higher qualities and are therefore pleased about the change. This reminded me of a comment that Czernin wrote in an editorial at the time. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You will also comment!]] – Because they are quite rightly also thought-provoking. I think it makes sense to deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I believed that you were imaginative!]] Not only do I believe that this is all our task, and that is also the task of the media, and one should therefore critically deal with them what I am trying to do. – In this context, Czernin wrote at the time: For joy, the government has forgotten politics. That's exactly the point! It has forgotten policy if one understands "politics" to give impetus to create orientation, but also to take measures to create structures. And that's exactly what you didn't do in the savings package, for example, but you just save. The money acquisition action is supposed to meet everyone at the same time, you don't differentiate. They have, therefore, a strange concept of reform – which is now the topicality that is involved – because Vice-chancian Schüssel has spoken about a century reform in connection with the alleged health reform. It is the biggest reform we have had for decades. That's how you said it. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No! I didn't say "thousands"!]] It is the biggest reform we have had for decades. It's bad enough if you say that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] If a money-raising action – and I want to express this political understanding – is understood by you as one of the most profound reforms we have had in the last decades, then you must not be surprised, but above all take all optimism on your future policy. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Is it not!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I still think that this money-raising action is an incredible superiority. You obviously have the feeling that you don't have to deal with it at all, you don't need to go into the depths, you don't need to think about who you meet with the casting pot. You don't need to think about where the real starting points are, because nothing comes from them. I now also see this political inability in the current debate, which we will have even more concrete when the proposal for an initiative on the political relations of the two government groups is tabled. Here you can see what kind of reaction is being made. One does not even respond to the states, but to what is being published. And you react like I mean, without backbone. One – Mr Höchtl has left the hall in the meantime – defends something they unfairly use, and the other do not have the mumm to explain what was the basis of argumentation for a regulation. All of them are fleeing forward. Here you try to deliver a facade to the public, which at the first moment – I am convinced: only at the first moment – seems less vulnerable than what we now have. All of this is still happening under time pressure, and I am very curious whether, if we get it – today or whenever you bring it in – you will also really inform us about the consequences of this, the effects of the administrative burden and any impact of the cost. Are there any estimates of the effects here, as we always have in other laws? And above all: How do you want to eliminate this double ground that we've had so far? And there's something more to it: The fact that you want to measure mental performance with the Stechuhr is also a very special political understanding that is outstanding to you. We have a new Minister for Economic Affairs here today, and we will then deal with things even more concretely because it is about the report on the economic situation. But one thing has to be seen: that this new Minister of Economic Affairs has been in a position to enter an almost ten-year ÖVP ministry in this area and that it is therefore permitted to analyse this economic resort, which has been governed for almost ten years, which has left us behind. It was interesting to listen to Vice-Chancellor Schüssel's expectations of the Minister. It is also necessary to put these on him, because the situation is anything but pink. I just wonder why he has not already met these expectations in his six years of ministry. That might have been an independent contribution. The fact is that, according to the OECD report, our country's self-employed rate is the final light. You just need to repeat: We have a self-employed rate of 6.3 percent, the European average is 10.8, so we are in the end. For this we are at the top of the pay side, as everyone knows. That is to say, we currently have 98.3 percent of additional labour costs, with workers even more than 100 percent, namely 102.3 percent. In addition, the following are added: They are all in agreement, in particular the EIA is always talking about reducing additional wage costs. Now we are in the middle of the discussion about whether we should not increase the maximum basis of assessment and thus also increase the additional wage costs. You have to know that, too. But we still have other figures, including for these reasons, in terms of our competitiveness. According to studies by the World Economic Forum and the IMD, in recent years we have been from 11th to 16th. Place slipped. Since 1992 we have been on the prospects of the future, even from the 15th to the 30th century. Place slipped. All of this happened under a Ministry of the ÖVP. You have to know everything. It is not easy to clean up, but it is the result of the EIA's economic policy. When we look at the current account deficit, we see that we have not only a huge increase, but that we are about twice as high as 1994 with these 47 billion schillings which we are currently experiencing. All of this has led to the result: We need an emergency programme, which is obvious in the savings package. But it's not just that, it's always talking about climate, climate in a country that's supposed to be investment-promoting. What is the climate behind these ten years of ÖVP's Ministry of Economic Affairs? – They have left behind the following climate, which means that, according to surveys, only about 11 percent of people are willing to design and manage their jobs themselves. And if you ask international corporations what the business location of Austria is qualified or disqualified, 33 percent of the respondents say: The bureaucracy disqualified Austria. In this context, I would like to draw up a very important segment, namely the trade regulation. I remember our current hour when colleague Maderthaner answered Mr Peter: I don't know what he's got. What's so bad about the sugar baker not selling chicken? He only needs an additional test and an additional approval and everything is all right. I mean this attitude! You can't even say it better. But even the new Minister of Economic Affairs did not differ from that actually when he said: There is really no priority for trade. If someone wants to open a business, then he can make this quite easy; if it has to be, over three additional structures, over three side constructions. Do you really want this climate? Do you really want to continue this type of legal certainty in Austria by saying: If you know the right people, if you know the side constructions, then it'll go, but otherwise it doesn't have a priority for me. Do you not know that, for example, the authorisation procedures are in a sense of relation to approval procedures in other countries? 48 percent of the approval procedures take more than one year. Do you not know that the acquisition of a commercial right with us costs not only five to ten times as much as in Germany, but also with us it takes longer accordingly – for example, two months compared to Germany. And if one still sees that it has been calculated that an Austrian company spends about 560 hours a year alone to deal with bureaucracy, then one cannot simply do so and say: Well, then we'll do something else. This has no priority for me. There are other areas where policies do not take place at all, such as industrial policy. I remember how often we have tried to convene an industrial policy committee to set something in motion, but nothing happens at all. And then – I have to turn to the SPÖ and express my astonishment – it is believed to be able to make up for something by thinking in Saudi Arabia about whether one could loosen the arms export law and thus boost the economy. To articulate such a thought and to justify it: Listen to how they react to Austria. Our economy needs that!, that alone is a clear proof of the absolute failure of industrial policy, but also of the double mortality of your argumentation, which you constantly want to make known to us. On the one hand, the SPÖ has always said: Weapons Export Act and War Materials Act are the important safeguards for neutrality. The neutrality is held very firmly! – But now in Saudi Arabia, in the light of the changed global political conditions, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany comes to think about the possibility of exporting weapons at least. That means that it suddenly has nothing to do with neutrality. I am of the opinion, and we believe that the instruments of neutrality should have been rethinked for a long time. But that a party that produces such a narrow connex, in the face of economic interests, overthinks a easing, regardless of the ethics, regardless of the fact that one knows that in Saudi Arabia just last year, the death sentences have increased exorbitantly – 192 death sentences were imposed there last year – I really think that... I'm missing the word, or I won't say it, or I'll get an order call. To do this and not even to think of industrial policy is unreasonable and proves the political inability of this general government. And that's why, Minister, you'll have a lot to do. X-times a technology and innovation offensive has been announced – zero has happened. With announcements alone, we won't make it. A lot has also been announced, nothing has happened; at least he has gone for it. Now we'll see what's going on with you. Technology and innovation offensive means: Setting up and promoting intelligent jobs. But that also means that – we have been talking about it for a long time – venture capital promotion, which allows small and medium-sized enterprises to have access to the stock exchange, and gives large businesses the necessary liquidity. This also means modernising the right of establishment, in which nothing has yet to be done. When I compare with other countries, I know how far we are behind. We also need a reduction in bureaucracy. All of this, Mr Minister, you will have to pick up because it has so far been missed by these government parties, but in particular by the economic sector for which the EIA has been responsible for nearly ten years. I confess I am not very hopeful because of your first comments, but in the interests of Austria I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5533	Mrs Hostasch has now been reported to speak. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5554	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! They have been entrusted with the task of responsible a very large department, a very important department, which has to provide important political impetus for the competitiveness of our economy, for Austria's economic location, and thus for the Austrian workers. We expect you – from the point of view of employee interests, but also from the point of view of social democracy – to take an active lead in this department, in order to provide the economic location for the appropriate impetus for employment. We have been able to reach agreement on many issues with Mr Dr. Ditz and have had an interlocutors for important common concerns. However, we have still missed the fact that in this sector of the economy some questions were not dealt with with with with the intensity that would be important from the point of view of workers, as we would have wished. However, I do not want to reduce the merits of Mr Ditz's Minister when the 1996 and 1997 budgets come into being. Nevertheless, Mr Farnleitner, we expect you to be very active in employment policy from your ministry on the one hand, on the other hand, in all the issues that are pending in your department, but on the other hand we expect you to take decisive steps to modernise our economic structure and reforms in the public sector on the other. I think it is good to put the cards on the table at the beginning of a term of office and to say what the government partner expects, what social democracy and, last but not least, the interests of workers expect from you in this political function. I would therefore like to put these cards openly on the table and address a few points. The Federal Minister for Climate Change has put in place a number of measures in the field of export promotion, thus creating important impulses to improve our export opportunities. I believe that the export industry is a very crucial sector in our economy, because we can create value added through the export industry, so the essential contribution is also made to the gross domestic product. But also in your department important decisions are necessary to accompany this path. I welcome the fact that in your first statements you have voted in favour of an export offensive. I just think that the Austrian population will rightly ask: What does that mean in concrete terms? And what measures are being taken by you now? That is why I would like to ask you to make a concrete statement as soon as possible about what steps you are planning to take. I would also like to remind you that during the last legislative period we have had discussions on economic promotion measures and that we should use more synergies to improve coordination. In your department are important factors of export promotion, economic promotion, also in the form of various funds. I would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this area too. The responsibility for tourism is also to be found in your place of business, and we have very often dealt with the development of the tourism industry in this House. We know that this is a very important industry, but believe that tourism support must be reorientated, that it does not make sense to make further capacity expansions, but that a differentiated promotion practice should be ensured to maintain quality tourism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian economy is a small economy. I mean, we have to use every opportunity to support and promote the economy, the economy, through our own initiatives. I think that very many contracts will be awarded in your department, and procurement is of great importance. I therefore believe that, in keeping with all the international agreements we have concluded, we could take more account of the Austrian companies, the Austrian companies, so that we can keep value creation in our own country and also make a very conscious counter-business policy when it comes to making imports for different procurements and, on the other hand, to answering them with counter-businesses. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear Minister! In this context, a few words on the subject of trade regulation. I think it is right that we should carry out a review of the trade regulations, a liberalisation. We have taken the first steps in this direction with the new commercial regulation in 1993. I would welcome the fact that you will soon be dealing with those demands already on the table by the Social Democracy, but also with those made by the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB, because I believe that liberalisation in commercial law could open up additional employment opportunities, without any protectionable interests of consumers or customers of services under pressure or disadvantage. I think it is also important to point out that there is also a partial responsibility for vocational training and apprenticeship in your place of business. We have discussed this very often! I'm looking for you or ask you to: Put pressure on the Austrian entrepreneurs to offer apprenticeships not only verbally to the dual vocational training system, but also actively to confess and give young people a chance! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to refer to the important function of the Federal Property Society in the context of impulses in the national field, Mr Federal Minister, and to ask you to order this company to sell all the usable properties and properties within the scope of its possibilities, so that we also receive financial resources for other initiatives. Let me add one more point to the specific demands. This is about a selective and also only punctual perception. You shouldn't always believe what's in newspapers, but I couldn't question what you meant. With regard to the Federal Road Administration and also the introduction of the comprehensive toll system, first comments have given you the impression that, with the reference to technical problems, you intend not to implement the decided introduction of the comprehensive toll in the agreed form. I would like to stress that it is very crucial for us that the truth of the cost of the truck in particular be included and that the agreements are respected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, Mr Minister, I ask you to take account of the fact that, in order to implement this already decided approach, the relevant organisational measures must also be taken in so far as the corresponding society must be established and there must be the organisational framework. Dear Minister! I would like to say a few more personal words because I wondered about the first reactions that appeared in the public when you were designed or within a few days when ministers were praised. I was surprised when you were assigned a role, a kind of policy that you do not yet know, cannot yet understand what I call an unfair pre-punciation or pre-legitimization. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I cannot judge how you will prove yourself to be a minister, but I was able to get to know you as a social partners as a fair partner, who is very competent, who is not a supporter, who has been involved in economic and social matters in particular and has developed important foundations for future policy decisions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Minister! I was also able to learn that you have gained many experiences in the Brussels scene, on the Brussels parquet, which are important for the exercise in your resort. Nevertheless, one should hope and expect that someone who has largely fulfilled the expectations of the interlocutors and negotiators in a particular task and function will make it possible for a ministerial office to do the same. I would therefore like to say: I expect you, as a minister, to negotiate common concerns with the same willingness to cooperate and to cooperate closely with the workers' representatives and to achieve a good solution. I also expect you to conduct these negotiations with a view to the outcome of the negotiations and not to providing additional political uncultivates and to supporting them, where junkimation is often seen as a priority for negotiation as a result-oriented one. I would also like to remind you that in April 1994 we concluded a Europe Agreement, which makes it clear that the social partners have equal participation in the Austrian decision-making preparations, but also in decision-making and are also represented in the relevant bodies. I believe that this form of cooperation has proved successful for our country and for the workers, and I think that, last but not least, the very successful members' surveys in the Chambers have confirmed that the Austrian people are absolutely supporting and wishing for this form of balance of interests, this form of common consensus. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Minister! I am a positive thinking person and therefore I am convinced that we will succeed in working together to achieve a good policy in the sense of our country, in the sense of the workers.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5692	Mrs Petrovic has now been reported to the House. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5714	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A new Minister of Economic Affairs gives us the opportunity to deal with the economic policy course of the Federal Government as well as with the framework conditions of this order. We from the Greens have regretted the resignation of Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz – not because we had been in every opinion with Ditz, far from it, but because we had the feeling of having a contact person in Ditz, who openly told us whether he was going to comply with a green proposal or not. We never had the feeling that an X for an U would be put before us, that someone with his opinion was holding behind the mountain. In so far as we have appreciated this open discussion climate and also in some of its attitudes, for example, as regards certain stones and crustagements of the economic structure that Ditz wanted to loosen up, we have quite conformed with it. It has now been complained by the previous speakers from the government parties that the opposition would have rejected this minister from the outset only leave negative comments from the outset and give him so much no chance to prove himself. - That's wrong. We have said very clearly by the Greens – for example, our spokesperson professor Van der Bellen – that we are actually waiting to find a contact person in the new Minister for Economic Affairs, that we have doubts as to whether and to what extent this will be the case, whether and to what extent it will contribute to environmental renewal measures, but at least we have offered him a constructive dialogue on the principle of sustainability. And, of course, we are. Federal Minister! After your first statements, which you made in public, you have actually strengthened our initially voiced, somewhat ambivalent attitude. It is not that we reject everything that comes from your side. I am now only taking you to your own statements, to what you have announced and looked forward to in the few days of your term of office. On the one hand, you have spoken of an offensive for the export industry, and on the other, you have announced renewals in the field of Austrian electricity industry. In both areas, we also see the need for action. It is only the question in which direction you will be actively remembered. We still lack a lot of concreteization. We share the view that there is a very urgent need for renewal in the energy sector as an ecological key sector. In the context of the discussions on ecologically devastating power plant projects, we Greens repeatedly see that an environmental energy policy in Austria is almost impossible with the various national societies and their particular interests. In so far as we welcome your announcements that you are seeking a vertical unbundling in the electricity sector in the undertakings and the creation of a national management company. What we lack, however, Mr Federal Minister – I believe you can no longer talk about energy policy without the ecological dimension – is a clear statement, a clear commitment to the principle of least cost planning, i.e. no new power plant, provided that we can otherwise produce cheaper electricity, e.g. through savings, without restrictions for the economy or households. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is possible in a very large style, and there you should become active. In the priority for renewable energy sources and in the coordination of power plants, we expect you to have an ecological renewal programme. In this regard, if you want to, on your side, you have us as a fair and correct interlocutor and ally if you are looking for this ecological path. But it is up to you which direction you take. We are waiting for an offer on your part. Your second announced offensive: They want to boost Austria's exports. – Of course! We all want a successful Austrian economy, of course also a successful export economy. But there is also the question of how this is to be done in detail, which markets you are looking at and which side-by-side conditions are to be fulfilled, so that we can also welcome such an export offensive with the full support of the Republic of Austria. In the past, this was also a point that often led to confrontations and controversys, especially with the Green Group. You have said in your first media statements that efforts are primarily in the Internal Market and also in the new markets of hope. – That is still too little precise for us Greens. Of course, we have to rise on the internal market – on this point I come to speak later – but especially with regard to the hope markets, the question is already: At what price do we boost the economy? Or what conditions can be met to support such an export offensive in good conscience? – One can no longer talk about the export economy without having to look at these side-by-side conditions, which are important. What about human rights? What are the countries we want to export to? Are we exporting at all costs? Do we bubble in front of any other government, whether there are oppositionists in prisons, whether death sentences are executed there, whether there are student protests being rolled down, or not? – That’s the question! Is there a morale in the economy, and how do you stand? Federal Minister! It would be important to clarify, especially in these hope markets – for these are third world states – those are countries that are now looking for an economic upswing – to what extent Austria is a prerequisite and prerequisite for promoting trade, as well as increasing its standards in human rights. That's where you're called as Minister of Economic Affairs. In this respect, we believe that the leaders of the Austrian Federal Government have acted too lax in the past, for example with regard to China, with regard to Iran and with regard to the latest example of Saudi Arabia by the media. As Minister of Economic Affairs, not only can you have sums and export revenues in mind, but you are required to talk about human rights, about the conditions that exist in these countries, for example, about environmental destruction. You should have a clear course to support and promote exports publicly only if we have a guarantee that there is at least a positive development in terms of ecology and human rights in these countries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You are only in office briefly, you have emphasized these two areas in particular. As I said, you can count on us as an interlocutor. We will then criticize you if you find no clear words on questions of ecology, on human rights issues. However, we will support you where you will also promote and drive forward the Austrian economy. From my point of view, from a green point of view, there are three major points where you must be aware of the very dangerous development in which we are today, and to which you must form their line – and this against a background I do not want to hide: They were not the first one to come to mind on the Vice-Chancellor when it came to the search for a new Minister of Economic Affairs. I do not want to assess this at all, or to measure you in any way in relation to a ranking, but there should be some reason to think under which policy is taking place today. I believe that you, as a new member of the government, are also required to deliver an opinion on, for example, the many privileges that are now being discussed in the field of politics and the fact that they are being responded to. Not least were members of your group who have gone through the media with an extremely negative example; It was scandalous. You, as a representative of the economy, in which the principle of performance and counter-performance should prevail, must speak a clear language in questions of income without performance or even in questions of cash benefits against full references. What is happening now is going in the direction that a general privilege of politics will create a privilege for government politicians, for there it will be easy – and this will also be possible for you as the head of the department – to say: My party friend or my party colleague is present in my department, but this performance will not be questioned. – You will be very closely monitored by the public in this respect, as you will. For your part, I still lack clear statements – especially in the current discussion. Getting into Three Points It requires: A critical assessment of Austria's accession to the EU and, on the other hand, of the difficulties, of the problem arising from the extreme cost gap at the Austrian East and North border is required. How do you react? The answer can only be an ecological one in our eyes. Those who believe that they can cope with this cost pressure with eco- or social dumping and thus gain a market advantage are mistaken that this strategy must fail. Unfortunately, some point to the fact that it is going in this direction. You will have the opportunity to confess color here. In our opinion, the second major problem is ecological renewal. You will soon have the opportunity to express your opinion on the issue of an environmental tax reform, which, according to the motto, will work to reduce the burden on the production factor at work and at the same time introduce an energy, at least a raw material tax. The Minister of Economic Affairs will play a central role in this. In the past, your party has always pursued only a policy of announcement, for example by the representatives of agriculture. A truly clear and driving force in the government was to be missed by the ÖVP. Environmental liability. In our view, it is also a case of dumping if companies are able to exploit if a company gives a competitive advantage that it will save on environmental conditions and ultimately transfer the costs that will then be incurred for future renovation to the future, to the taxpayers. Eco-tax reform and environmental liability are central tasks, but not only from an ecological point of view, but in our opinion they are also deeply market-economy tasks. To believe that one can overturn costs to the general public is a form of economy which is not market-friendly and which, in the end, cannot be crowned with success. The third major point that you have to address is the removal of those schemes that are in fact in the field of economic life. In this regard, we have the greatest concerns as to whether and to what extent you would like to face up to such a reform in commercial law – in the light of current requirements for authorisation and regulations that seem to be too reasonable. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a deregulation that we need in many areas cannot mean that we are decommissioning citizens' rights. In these areas, you also need to declare yourself clearly. We too want speedy and speedy procedures. It is not to be seen that plant permits take years, but this must not be at the expense of the locals and the Austrian population! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this regard, your predecessor, Dr. Schüssel, had approaches that have given us cause for concern, namely, a company resettlement law, which would have meant practically a balding of civil rights. I would like to ask you urgently for your answer on how you stand on the right hand side of the population, especially when it comes to ecologically critical businesses. As I said, They have our support when it comes to debureaucratisation and acceleration of procedures – but not at the expense of the population, but not bought by reducing participation rights! I have the impression today that, in some areas, we are indeed dramatically overregulated, that three, four, five permits are needed for any bagatelle, but that, on the other hand, the dangerous installations or activities will come into a total free space. Genetic installations do not need an environmental impact assessment. Many plants, such as large agricultural plants, mass animal husbandry plants, industrial animal factories, do not need such plant approval. These are in a legal free space in which the population is not protected and in which, from our point of view, an injustice to any other business is cemented and tolerated. – As Minister of Economic Affairs, especially in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, you have to work for equal opportunities, because it cannot be the more dangerous it is that, the less it has to comply with permits and the less conditions. As I said, there are three major areas: a critical attitude towards EU accession – there are not only winners; there are many losers, and their interests must also be perceived by the Austrian Federal Government – issues of ecological renewal of the economy and issues of meaningful deregulation in some areas, but "reregulation" in other areas. From our point of view, these are the central tasks. As I said, We don't meet you with advance ladyberries or with a pre-condemnification. It is up to you whether and to what extent you are dealing with the central environmental issues. If you do, then this applies to our statement made from the outset, then you can expect the constructive dialogue with the Greens and also with our support.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5838	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5859	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has previously complained that in Austria we have little ecological renewal, particularly in economic policy. I already have to point out that in Austrian economic policy – even in our party programme – the guiding principle of the eco-social market economy applies. Only one thing is, of course, not possible – that is why one also speaks of an eco-social way – that, as it were, from one day to the other all these regulations are changed. This is not possible, but we are involved in competition, in European competition and in global competition, and there are many jobs on it. I also understand "ecosocial" as a social security for the weaker, and the weaker can also be the one who wants to work but has no job. We must therefore already see this area as a whole, and not just on average. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would define the eco-social market economy as follows: It combines the individual's will for benefits with social compensation in society and a gentle approach to the environment. In other words, free competition as the basic principle of the rules of the market economy also needs rules to ensure social security for the weaker in society. However, we also need arrangements to ensure risks in a common sense, namely those risks which the individual cannot bear alone. However, the recognition of the limited availability of raw materials and energy is also necessary for an ecological, responsible market economy. That means we have to pay more attention to the cycle in nature. If you had been involved in the negotiations in recent weeks, especially this week and also in the EU bodies, you would know that Austria is a pioneer in this field. Minister Bartenstein has made a significant contribution to the fact that there is a rethinking or a reflection phase in the European Commission for the introduction of, for example, genetically engineered maize. Austria is, as it were, a model within the European Union and promoters of such ecological achievements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor is it true that Mrs Schmidt said that the number of self-employed in Austria is falling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Just yesterday, there was a report in the morning news that there were 330 000 self-employed in Austria in 1995 - by 5 000 and by 1.6% more than a year earlier. It is the small businesses – our economy also lives on – that keep our jobs and create new jobs. In the area of large industry, more rationalisation is being done and jobs are being reduced. But it is the many small businesses that need, so to speak, our attention, which in recent years have created additional jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We too do not agree with all the ways of doing this, and I would just like to give an example of this from the recent past. The purchasing behaviour of large parts of consumers is not always ecologically oriented. Unfortunately, in the supermarkets the cheapest product is often used, without bearing in mind that under natural conditions this product cannot be produced so cheaply. For example, last week alone, over 600 000 kilograms of potatoes from Palermo, that is, from the southernmost part of Italy, have been purchased because there are fresh potatoes to have by 1.10 s. If the managing director of the Federal Board of Food Trade in yesterday's "Kurier" reasons this so that the Italians have to harvest quickly for fear of a potato disease and therefore currently sell at all costs – they send full trucks and say, comes back empty – I do not understand this way as an eco-social economy, because with such practices one will kill the domestic potato production, which is naturally carried out and ensures that the products come fresh to the market. Also the domestic potatoes have only a price of 1.50 S in this year. The producers pay for it. Even though the potatoes from southern Italy are still cheaper by 40 sizes, I believe that a little more should be looked at in the domestic market. Through membership of the EU, we have to face a Europe-wide competition. It is clear to me that, of course, the market economy and the internal market also mean that there are flows of goods in Europe from one country to another, but it should also be noted - and this is my call to consumers - that local agriculture is ready to comply with particular environmental conditions in Austria. Farmers have already had to buy last year that agricultural prices and cereal prices have fallen by about 40%, milk prices by about a third, beef prices by about 30%, but vegetable prices have also fallen by 25 to 30 percent. Unfortunately, we have to note again and again that these prices are not passed on to consumers everywhere. The consumer will, therefore, partially react with ambiguity if he has to take note that agriculture is now receiving land support instead of export support. We farmers also do not want genetic engineering in food production. We are interested in the trust of our consumers. However, it must be possible for consumers to sell these products which we produce without having to work with genetic changes in the food sector by buying them on the market as well. We must work together to ensure that, in the main committee, we have already delivered opinions on this matter, so that, if we cannot prevent it from happening on the Austrian market, genetically modified products must be marked accordingly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] This is why our farmers have also taken an initiative. She's been introduced last week. In the course of the summer, there will be a poster action which will draw consumers' attention to Austrian quality products, including leaflets in front of the trade chains. The farmers will also become food shelves in the shops of the trade chains and start discussions with consumers in order to conjure up Austrian consumers on Austrian products in this way. [[Abg. Wabl: Only the farmers? Where are the farmers?]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: In the fields!]] The Austrian origin and quality markings will also be mentioned. I did not understand why honourable Member Haider blamed the new Minister of Economic Affairs for making a poor gift if he called on Austrian consumers to buy Austrian products. In a single market too, it must be allowed to be patriotic, because Austrian products are also linked to Austrian jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Are we Europeans or are we not Europeans?]] I have met the new Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Johannes Farnleitner in the past during many negotiations on the novelties of the market regulations, but also in the preparation for EU accession and in the negotiations in Brussels for Austrian accession to the EU as a hard negotiating partner. I learned to appreciate Dr. Johannes Farnleitner because of his quick thinking and also his quick calculation. It has always been very quick to calculate what some measure in this area is all about. If Max Weber said that politics is drilling hard boards with patience and attention, or others say that politics is the art of the possible, I am convinced that our new Minister of Economic Affairs has these characteristics and will use them for the benefit of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5962	Mr Farnleitner has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e5984	Mr President. High house! I should not prejudge what I will say later in the economic debate anyway. Let me say a few things anyway. You have probably rarely had a candidate here as a new minister whose attitude you can read in many publications, so to speak, in which you can understand whether he changes by taking over an office or a function. That is why I can say a lot of questions here: It is detectable, documentable. - On the one hand. Secondly, as far as my style is concerned: I'm not sensitive to criticism when it's constructive. But I would ask anyone who is critical of me, a) not to tell me about a medium at first and b) to deal with me personally. That's where I'd put any openness in the room. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To comment on my dialogue style – I have also made it clear in the interviews that have been balling me in recent times –: It is not only the dialogue with those concerned, the dialogue with the social partners, I have also said that I am pleased with any action that can be taken by other parties. For one thing I have learned in my European policy: that it is a bit funny to work out Austrian strategies and to dig into party graves. No one is interested in Europe at all. The question is whether we are together capable of strategy formulation, whether we can enforce this example in our own country and whether we can make alliances internationally to implement such strategies. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One thing, ladies and gentlemen, has clearly happened to me at the preparatory interviews: They're quoted in cut-outs. I have not said, Mrs Schmidt, that the trade regulations do not have a priority for me. I have said that in this House which I take over, there is such a wide range of competences that I think I have five, six priorities. It's enough of what's on my mind, and that's what the trade order counts, but I didn't want to get on a tight track of the house. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On a specific question, put by Mr Hostasch, Madam President: Road pricing. I would like to say quite clearly, I was asked how I stand on road pricing. You will remember, Madam President: We have already proposed road pricing in the Committee on Social Affairs' opinion on the budget ahead of the big scratch. I have just said that, because of my technical, technological knowledge, I do not want to accept a solution that does not hold technically a hundred percent. This has not been related to the trucks, but it has been based on the experiences that Holland and Germany have made in the field of passenger cars. For I am allowed to point out – then I stop, I do not want to teach – that it is difficult to imagine that future cars will be delivered, in which automatic maps are pre-planned, from which almost every toll stop will be reported to the driver. This would be a threat to the overall financial return. Therefore: Yes, but it really has to work. That's my explanation. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hostish.]] In terms of ecology, Mrs Petrovic, I should like to say the following: I believe that in many articles it is re legible that I have always known about resource taxes instead of job taxation. - That's the first point. The second point: I have repeatedly explained, even now, in studies of the ESC, which I have worked well with the European Commission, that the issues of eco-dumping and social dumping must play a major role in the WTO negotiations, otherwise our standards cannot be observed. In the sense of free trade, therefore, it must not be the key to eliminating better systems, but it must be a way to ensure that the international level is adequate in the medium term. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, my final request: Please do not measure me in prejudices, measure me by what I have written and said and by what I am trying to do and what I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6073	Mr Dr. Frischenschlager has now been reported on the floor. – Mr deputies, because of the quotas for speaking time, there are still 4 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6094	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! I have to be very close. First: Your vice chancellor and head of the party expressly praised you as a social security officer. They will understand that we do not agree with this praise, for a reason which has been so beautifully expressed in the Laudatio of Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who has been so beautifully opposed to: Social partners or the chaos of the street. I think it is really a devaluation of our parliamentary democracy if we do not trust ourselves in this pluralistic, democratic form without chaos and without road. - That's one point. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I hope, Mr Federal Minister, that you will not do so or that you will not, of course, continue to carry on what Kreisky once characterized in one of his books as beautifully as he said with regard to the social partners: In Austria, the social partners are ruling, Parliament is deciding afterwards, and the government is selling the results. – That is not how I imagine a parliamentary system of government. You will understand, therefore, that someone like you, who has gained his political experience in this area, even though I have heard from you in discussions quite differentiated sounds of the social partners, has in some way our distrust. We will therefore see exactly how much what you have announced in your first speech, namely this openness, occurs. This is an essential thing, because I believe that these old structures of the 1970s and 1980s, including that said by Mr Vice-Chancellor, no longer correspond to the fact that not only the content, but also the methods of these years are no longer adequate to the political needs we are facing. Second point: Mr. Vice-Chancellor has called you "the Minister of the Internal Market" – and this is also true formally – but now allow me to address some of the reports that have been associated with your takeover and which have hit me in the face. I wonder how someone like you can at least come to the media close to statements that are so completely contrary to what a forward-looking, Europe-related economic and social policy can mean to me. I really didn't understand how a quote could be possible from you or how you could say on the radio yourself that you would prefer to set up stops at the borders so that the Austrians could buy Austrian goods and not carry their money abroad. I also did not understand how you – with all your understanding of domestic tourism – could give the impression that the Austrians should only stay in the country. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: I was mis-quoted with the stop-tables!]] Not that I think it is not nice to go on vacation in Austria, but what is this approach to an economy we know is that it is almost half of the total foreign policy? That's where our perspective can only be: This economy is successful if it exists in European internal market competition. Such a relapse will not help us. To hope to see only our own economic sector, our own consumer behaviour and tourism behaviour and to close the internal borders of the Republic is not a perspective. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I hope that what happened to you at the beginning is not the reality that follows. For this Austria will only exist if it is very open, quite offensive, especially in economic policy and when it comes to these problems entirely European.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6138	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Merchant. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6159	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to the distrust that honourable Member brings to the new Minister: I believe, of course, that social partners and Parliament are complementary and that it has also been demonstrated in recent years that this has been a very fruitful dialogue for the country, which has brought the country a great deal. I therefore believe that this mistrust is absolutely inappropriate and unjustified. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A well-understood social partnership, which naturally changes, which adapts to the new circumstances of time, is not only a model of the 1970s and 1980s, but, in my opinion, a model of the next twenty years. Mr. Minister! You have a number of different competences in your ministry. Her predecessors, with all due regard, were particularly aware of the fact that he had been involved in financial and budgetary policy, but there have been too few areas, such as apprenticeship and apprenticeship training. Much has been said about how to improve and maintain the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. An important way to do this is without a doubt to promote apprenticeship training and to maintain the dual system in training. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are fewer and fewer apprentices in Austria. I believe that one of your most important tasks is to achieve a real turnaround. Apprenticeship training, of course, costs firms considerable. There are, I believe, only a few companies that use the apprentice as cheap labour force and train badly; those who train well must spend money on it. But the answer to that cannot be to train fewer apprentices or to shorten vocational schooling, but must be the answer that, precisely because apprenticeship training costs something, all the firms that benefit from it also pay. I do not take out the public hand as a company that benefits from it at all. I believe that this is the crux of future teaching, and in Lower Austria we have been able to make a joint declaration between the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, in which it says: "A financial discharge must be granted to firms that train well. This can be both teaching workshops and, of course, high-quality commercial and commercial firms. It can't be that a few engaged firms carry the training of skilled workers for the whole economy and also for the public institutions." And now it comes: "The whole economy, as well as the public, have to make this financial way out." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a joint declaration by Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Workers in Lower Austria. I believe that this would be a very good way forward, which could also be taken over at the federal level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Minister! They will deal with many questions of deregulation. I think we must get away from a modern credo, namely that deregulation is always good and reregulation is always bad. Bad is just insisting on regulations that don't bring anything, but it's just as bad to refuse new regulations that can eliminate abuses. The business regulation – many previous speakers have mentioned this – is of course about facilitating access to self-employment, it is about creating new careers. Examples have been mentioned. Why not also paint a tapestry at the same time, why the baker can't bake cakes et cetera? It is important that the job prospects be more comprehensive, but above all, from my point of view, we should be careful not to push workers out of employment by means of a new industrial regulation. I think that is a very important point. We do not want, for example, the waiter who buys the food and drink at the counter, then brings them to the table and sells them there, and the whole thing is an independent job. This would make it possible to escape from labour law, and of course we are not. I also do not believe that it is right to abandon the rules of commerce in all areas which do not concern health and life and to replace them with insurance. In fact, only the audit requirements which are currently the responsibility of the commercial authorities would be passed on to the insurance companies. It must not be believed that this can achieve a red tape reduction, but rather that it is necessary to redesign the commercial authorities and not to pour out the child with the bath. In addition to the trade regulations, however, there will also be a whole series of regulations, particularly those relating to consumers, and I really wish, Minister, that consumers have a higher priority in their activities than before. We have just prevented the Chamber of Labour from introducing this minimum rate of housing, which would have led to a substantial increase in housing for those seeking housing. Another example, where there must be improvements, is the regulation of collection fees. Mr Maier and I have still sent a question to Federal Minister Ditz, who was answered in a very, very unsatisfactory manner. We will submit this request in a slightly changed form again and hope that your answer will be more correct and better. It really is not a question of the fact that, for example, in the recovery of claims by your home's regulation, the collection offices can demand more and calculate more than lawyers, for example, of which the poorest of the poor, namely many debtors, are very negative, because in these areas the most brutal methods are used, which range from persecution to physical persecution and the threat of debtors. I think you can do a lot here. Generally speaking, the consumer in your ministry must be given a higher priority than before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! Of course, there will also be deregulation and regulatory requirements in the energy sector. The large customers will be able to re-occur on the market and buy energy – that's right – and they will be able to achieve price advantages, but They should be very careful to ensure that the budgets are not included in the wheels, because there is also the fear that the large industries themselves on the market will no longer bear certain fixed costs of the energy supply companies and that these lost coverage contributions will then be allocated to the households. I think that we have to be very careful that the new energy price system does not include households. Minister! The next point is the petrol price. In Austria we have a petrol price, which is net 1 S higher than in Germany. It is not necessary to explain this higher tax price with regional differences or the other petrol station network et cetera alone. Her predecessor gave up the model of "glass bags". As a result, this model for the pricing of petrol has not worked at all, but I imagine that one should not give up a pricing system and replace it with nothing. We must and will also note that competition alone cannot push the price of petrol to the appropriate point, which would be necessary and correct, but we need to introduce new pricing mechanisms, which are of course better than those that your predecessor has given up. Of course, a particular problem in the area of regulation/deregulation will be the social clauses in international trade agreements, especially in the WTO. I am very grateful that you have already expressed very positive views on this. The European Parliament voted in 1994 with a clear majority in favour of the introduction of social clauses within the WTO. Unfortunately, there is an increasing amount of child labour in the world – 200 million children are currently forced to do work, mostly under the most terrible conditions – and there is forced and slave labour, and the international trade unions have called for the adoption of the ILO standards, which are currently non-binding, into the WTO system. The main issue is that the following ILO standards are also binding by anchoring the WTO: the right to freedom of association and collective treaty negotiations, the prohibition of forced labour, the prohibition of child labour and the prohibition of discrimination in employment and occupation. Mr. Minister! I expect you to pursue this issue of anchoring social standards and social clauses in the WTO in your role in the EU very offensively. Minister! You have already commented on the problem circle truck toll. On the basis of some newspaper reports, I have already had the fear that you are now for the vignette, but that you want to somehow relativize the question of the truck toll from the year 1998. If that is not the case, I am very happy, because the quality of life in many Austrian communities is really dependent on the fact that the truck toll is coming, that the truck traffic is more burdened and that a cost truth in the relationship between truck transport and freight transport on the rails is really happening. Mr. Minister! There will be the motorway vignette. I do not share the fear of many that then tourism will collapse et cetera, et cetera, but I already see a problem that affects us as a low Austrian: This is the fact that many of those who come from the Eastern states – from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary – and Vienna – are forced to avoid using the motorway. Why? – For them, these 150 s are a lot of money – seven hour wages, for example, for a Hungarian industrial worker – and the route they use is very short, only about 25, 30 kilometers. We have also spoken with the Office of the Lower Austrian Government. A resolution has been adopted to examine the effects of the vignette and the elimination of car traffic on the federal road. I would just like to pay real attention to these Lower Austrian communities, which are particularly affected by Eastern transport, and to look at quickly how countermeasures, possibly road reconstruction programmes et cetera, could be created. Mr. Minister! You said in a radio interview: I would love to put Taferln on the border, on which says: Work and earn in Austria – but shopping abroad is good! Just how long is that going? I think we need a greater loyalty of the buying-in citizens to the Austrian product, to the Austrian company and to the Austrian location. With this statement I have my problems for these reasons. But if you make this statement, Minister, I would ask you not to take the Austrian entrepreneurs out of it and also to ask them to produce them in Austria and not to move the productions to the East. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is very common to argue with synergies, but often they do not occur. So if you are appealing to Austrian consumers in such a way, don't take out the Austrian entrepreneurs who are very often trying to bring workers into wage dumping positions by threatening to move away! [[Abg. May. Posch: Also tax-political!]] Mr. Minister! Finally, my main concern: As Minister of Economic Affairs, you are a co-designer of the opinion spectrum as well as the opinion climate on Austrian economic policy. In Austria, there is a strong view that competitiveness can only be achieved through wage reduction. Here I really expect you to be energetic about this misconception. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Wage dumping and social reduction are not an appropriate means of ensuring competitiveness. For the renovation of farms, wage cuts are only suitable in the rarest cases. In Austria, we have experienced that wages have increased faster over a long period of time than in the EU section, but this has been offset by productivity gains. This advantage, which we had in unit labour costs, has only been offset in recent years by currency disparities and by the devaluation of some European currencies. For the years 1996 and 1997, it is forecast that this position will improve competitiveness again. Let us, therefore, take a common stand against the false view that the wage sector can be somewhat repaired and achieved by wage dumping and a lack of wage competitiveness! If this is not true with the EU, it is not at all true with regard to the Eastern countries, because in turn the wage gap is so great that there can be no competitiveness at all with a fall in this area, with a reduction in wages. Minister! In particular, make it clear to entrepreneurship that wage and salary dumping, the reduction of social measures and social benefits will pave the way for a vicious circle that can open a downward trend, because less wages also mean less consumption, less demand, more profits and less jobs. I believe that one of the most important objectives must be to prevent this downward-thinking spiral. Mr. Minister! There are very great hopes in your activity from almost all sides. In this sense, I really wish you all the best for that!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6246	There is no more word message. This debate is closed. 2. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the economic situation 3rd. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs on the economic situation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6285	We now come to the points 2 and 3 of today's agenda. These are statements by the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs on the economic situation. In accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, a joint debate will take place on the request of five Members following these statements. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Federal Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6313	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I know that you have a lot of important and interesting issues on the agenda today, but I nevertheless allow myself to make a few comments, in addition to the present very comprehensive written report by the Federal Government on the year 1996. I was allowed to present the 1996 and 1997 Federal estimates to the House about three months ago. At the time, in the context of the budget speech, I have already pointed out that the Federal Government has drawn up a programme that goes beyond two years, with a focus on ensuring employment in our country. In addition to these consolidation efforts, measures have therefore been prepared and to a large extent already taken to ensure the competitiveness of the Austrian economy as a whole, the quality of our economic location and thus to provide jobs in the medium to long term. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These include incentives in the areas of infrastructure, construction, waste water management, waste management, support for exports and business start-ups, streamlining of public authorities and the like. All of this will not only ensure employment in the short term – in the primary effect – but above all in the secondary effect, i.e. in the medium term, increase the quality of our site and thus ensure competitiveness. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by my predecessor. I think it is essential that the Austrian Government, under the World Trade Agreements, within the framework of the WTO agreement, support the concerns of many European countries, the concerns of the social partners in Europe, the concerns of trade unions. I also think it is essential that we include in this World Trade Agreement – in Singapore in autumn of this year – a minimum of core labour standards, i.e. standards that prevent child labour and forced labour, standards that ensure freedom of assembly and free trade union freedom. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But allow me an open word: It is obvious that the economic situation of Austria is currently less good than we all would have liked. Austria has survived the 1993 recession significantly better than most other European countries thanks to an efficient economic policy – our economic growth has slowed down, but is still a growth! Compared with the Member States of the European Union, economic development in Austria has gone well. Austria's economic growth in the 1990s was above the average of the other Western European countries. However, the economic upturn, which began after 1993, came to a halt in the middle of last year. The European Union had to significantly reduce its growth forecasts for the years 1995 to 1997 for almost all Member States. Tomorrow, the economic researchers will present and discuss their summer forecast. Unfortunately, according to the information available so far, they will not re-evaluate their growth forecasts. However, the economic researchers clearly and clearly say that for the first time light can be seen on the economic sky. The past valley trip seems to be over, and we have legitimate hopes that the measures that have been taken so far at European and, above all, at Austrian level, are at the end of the period of growth and that the expected economic upturn will occur. Ladies and gentlemen! The outlook of our economic researchers for this year and next year is extremely careful. In 1996, the Wifo is expected to remain about 1 per cent growth in 1996 with the forecast 0.7 per cent, while the IHS remains at least half higher. As you know, and I am now saying that I am going to go ahead with calming down and worrying questions, we and you have already adapted the 1996 budget to this reduced forecast of 0.7 per cent, and I can tell you at this point that the budget implementation is very disciplined that the budget implementation, as I believe, is quite positive. The first expenditure reduction measures are already taking place and can be considered as confirming that we have taken the right direction with the Federal Government's programme. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, all of you have to thank again that you will also be involved in this comprehensive package of measures. We're on the right path! Both the EU and the OECD predict stronger economic growth for Austria for 1997 than the careful Austrian economic researchers traditionally do in the spring forecast. The Wifo's spring forecast is 1.0 percent growth in 1997, the EU is forecasting 1.1 percent and the OECD is even 1.6% growth for 1997. But you know – and we have already demonstrated this in the past – that worse forecasts are almost a challenge. This is the challenge not to let these forecasts come about but to work with an active economic policy, an active employment policy against these forecasts. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the basic conditions in Austria are good. The exchange rate developments in recent months indicate that the higher valuation of D-Mark and Schilling, which occurred after the currency turbulence a year ago, has again been largely reduced. This resulted in short-term competitive disadvantages in exports, particularly for hard-currency countries such as Austria. This phase now seems to have been overcome. As a result of the first - strong dollar, the foreign value of the currency countries has also increased again. This should benefit from the Austrian current account, the deficit of which has already declined as a result of the Wifo spring forecast, which is forecast to fall from 47.2 billion schilling to 30.7 billion schilling, and this deficit could fall again. We expect an adjustment of the Wifo forecast to almost two thirds, to about 20 billion schilling, i.e. a significant reduction in the current account deficit. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The inflation rate, which is currently extremely low below the 2-percent mark, is also expected to remain so. Nominal interest rates have fallen, and the inflation differential has also developed very favourablely for Austria in recent years compared to the European Union. You remember: In 1993, there was an inflation rate of 3.6 percent in Austria, one of almost 4 percent in the EU. In 1994, we were 3 per cent and the EU average was 3.2 per cent. With Austria's accession to the European Union, the inflation rate in our country fell to 2.2 percent and to the almost historical low of 1.7 percent in the first quarter of 1996. The determination to consolidate will also strengthen investor and consumer confidence. From a global point of view, consistent compliance with the Roadmap to the European Economic and Monetary Union increases the credibility of European economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The most important development of last year is Austria's accession to the European Union. Our accession has strengthened Austria's position in the European internal market and secures the economic importance of our country for the future. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] All those who are now seeking more influence in the European Parliament, but who at the same time and constantly reject European integration, are most welcome to give a more accurate picture of the future of Austria in economic isolation. We can take advantage of the advantages... – Switzerland is good! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Switzerland! Totally isolated! Switzerland is now conducting transit negotiations for Austria!]] I had a conversation with the Swiss Minister of Finance Villiger last week. There is a massive migration of the industry, Mr Colleague. A little more thought and a little more information would be helpful! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And why do we have such high unemployment since 1995 when everything is so great?! 4 000 jobs in the food industry alone!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But I do not want to hide the fact that Austria's accession to the European Union of course also requires a number of adjustments and restructurings which are not to be made from today to tomorrow. These relate less to the export-oriented industry, which has already proved itself in competition, but, of course, to the previously protected areas, especially agriculture, food production and the like. However, the need for adaptation goes far beyond the sectors mentioned. The opening up of markets and increased competition, for example in telecommunications, the energy sector and many more, will bring opportunities for consumers and businesses to use: Improvement of quality, more attractive prices. But, of course, these adjustments in the companies themselves bring difficult situations which need to be dealt with socially. We all know that European integration is vital for our economy and that it is up to us to shape Austrian economic policy in such a way that we can really benefit from the opportunities and benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria – and I think this is particularly important – already plays an active role in Europe. On our initiative, the issue of employment policy has become one in the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Dini said it was shipped!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will support the future of the EU Treaty with a chapter on employment policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] And we, ladies and gentlemen, will also take action to ensure that future employment measures and the recommendations of the Commission, the Council and the implementation in the Member States of the European Union are carefully analysed and discussed as well as the fiscal policy criteria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Please! I am really a kind person, but...!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: (in the direction of freedom) Since when are you kind?]] The objective of monetary union is price stability, the objective of the Economic Union is full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes, exactly! With 20 million unemployed!]] I already admit that it is very, very difficult that our concerns, which are also shared by many other countries – for example, concrete signals towards the financing of the trans-European networks – are also quickly implemented. At the last Council meeting in Florence, for example, the mandate was given to draw up and decide on a proposal from the Commission concerning the financing of the trans-European networks by the Finance Ministers until the Dublin meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with the same determination with which we are now working on consolidation, with which we now want to secure the economic location of Austria and thus the high employment and creditworthiness of Austria in the capital markets, we must also address social peace, stability and the design of the future. And that belongs – and I say that in all clarity! – the consistent pursuit of the objective that Austria, together with the other hard currency countries, can participate from the beginning in the third stage of economic and monetary union. Austria has very solid foundations for this. Through the stability-oriented monetary policy, Austria has maintained stable exchange rates within the hard currency block decades ago. The productivity-oriented wage policy pursued by the social partners allows the maintenance of international competitiveness and low inflation rates. Austria is already meeting the monetary convergence criteria such as inflation, interest rates and exchange rate stability with ease. According to the EU forecast, ladies and gentlemen, Austria will be among the most price-stable countries in Europe at 2.1% inflation rate for 1996 and only 1.8% inflation rate for 1997. In 1995, long-term interest rates for Austria were 7.1 percent, which will fall to 6.2 percent in 1996, well below the current criterion of 10.1 percent. Fiscal policy is the best way to meet the other convergence criteria in good time with the consolidation programme. As you know, we have concluded a pact with the countries and communities, which will achieve the objective of reducing the deficit of public budgets to 3% in 1997. According to the Convergence Programme, the first step in 1998 is to achieve a downward trend in the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. The aim of capital policy is to achieve this turnaround as early as 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again in this context - it has already happened several times - that, despite this commitment that we must be part of the monetary union from the beginning as a hard currency country, we must not be spared because of Maastricht. I would like to stress this once again. I would remind you of an old quote from the Secretary of State Seidel, who has repeatedly pointed out that a state should have no higher deficit than about 2.5% of the gross domestic product. And Austria has counted among the states with the best so-called track record in the years before 1992 and until 1992. We only had deficits of over 3% in particularly unfavourable economic situations. A return to this budgetary path, which has always taken account of employment, ladies and gentlemen, is thus entirely in line with the good traditional Austrian economic policy of the last 20 years, which we can rightly be proud of. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the European Union This approach has brought us a very favourable macroeconomic environment: one of the lowest unemployment and inflation rates, early low interest rates – the Interest differential to the D-Mark is, as you know, practically disappeared – and one of the hardest currencies in the world we want to get. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, however, we have also felt the effects of currency turbulence on our own bodies. Our exporters know what it means to be able to offer a 10 to 20 percent cheaper price for competitors on hot-cooled markets due to currency depreciations. They know what it means when Austrian schilling prices on target markets suddenly mean by 10 to 20 percent more expensive prices in the respective national currency. Such effects do not only affect exporters and importers, they weaken economic development in a whole country and throughout Europe due to their loss of friction and uncertainty. Monetary turbulence alone At the beginning of 1995 a study by the European Commission found that growth in hard currency countries, for example in Germany and Austria, decreased by 1.1 percent in 1995. – 1.1 percent less growth in gross domestic product due to these currency turbulences! For 1996, this will have an impact of 0.4% lower growth, with the corresponding consequences for employment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The alternative scenario, repeatedly presented by critics of monetary union, is in fact not economically and legally available. Austria, for external reasons alone – up to 50 percent of our economic relations with the presumptuous Euroblock – has to bind the schilling, just as it has been closely linked to the D-Mark so far, to the euro in the future, but without having the opportunity to influence the policy, the exchange rate policy, monetary policy. Austria realistically has the alternatives: determine and co-form in monetary union, or: understand from outside. It is particularly important for our small country that the decision-making bodies of the European Central Bank apply the principle of 'a country, a vote'. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the financial markets would, of course, interpret Austria's non-participation in economic and monetary union as a rejection of a stability-oriented monetary and economic policy and, immediately, it is very easy to detect again and again with risk increases on our interest rates. We already have today – and I ask you to consider this – an interest rate of nearly 100 billion schilling. 20 percent of the net income of the federal government must already be spent on interest-rate services. You can imagine what this would mean for the further and in any case necessary budget consolidation, if there were to be a strong increase in interest rates, but also what would be more likely to have consequences for the investments of the economy, for private consumer credit and similar – not to mention the expected massive speculations against schilling, which traditionally affect the less wealthy of course. In the event of a shift in monetary union, it is likely that there will be a very strong pressure of appreciation towards D-Mark and Schilling. The financial markets would invest in a strong currency and thus automatically – like the Amen in prayer always the consequence – their course will push up. For hard-currency countries such as Austria, this would have a similar effect to 1992 and 1995 when the currency turbulences led to a severe deterioration in the competitive situation. A strong euro in competition with dollars and yen will remove huge competitive disadvantages for the European and thus for the Austrian economy. Many exporters today already dream of being able to invoice exchange rate risks on the world markets in the euro. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A weak applause! Not very excited!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we will only exchange stable schilling for a stable euro and therefore support the efforts to achieve a stability pact within the euro area as well as a new exchange rate system with those countries that are not yet participating in the euro-block. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thanks to your support, we have been able to decide on the two Federal budgets for 1996 and 1997 and also the Structural Adjustment Act. With this work, Austria has performed a tangible performance, which is also recognised abroad accordingly. In this year's Austrian study, the International Monetary Fund called the consolidation programme "as courageous as it is inevitable" and recommended this Austrian path to the involvement of the social partners, cooperation with local authorities as an example for the international community. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know, of course, that fiscal consolidation of around 100 billion schilling – and thus more than 4 percent of gross domestic product – is a difficult matter in a short time with an impact on growth. However, the type of consolidation – not saving in the investment sector – combined with an increased effort to boost exports, facilitate business start-ups and improve infrastructure balances these restrictive effects of budget consolidation. Economic research institutes have calculated that the overall package will be growth-neutral. Demand will fall by about 0.25 percentage points in the coming years, but employment will increase by about 0.25 percentage points by the set offensives. This is the result of an innovative policy mix that proves that economic spaces can be created and used even in difficult times. If the economic situation does not deteriorate dramatically, for which there are no signs at present, we are convinced that we can achieve our common consolidation objectives. [[Abg. Böhacker: Hallelujah!]] This does not mean, however, that we can now safely reject it, rather it means strict budgetary discipline and the rapid implementation of the necessary structural reforms in many areas of the State's tasks. I also hope to support you, ladies and gentlemen, with the extension of the powers of the Budget Committee in reducing the costs of follow-up to legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also achieved the objective of social balance with the consolidation programme. The social idea also has a very desirable economic side effect. Higher contributions from service providers reduce the demand for domestic products than there are massive cuts in those who already earn little. The fact that we have succeeded in achieving this balance in the necessary loads not only confirms the fact that the way of negotiation in Austria has helped to avoid the population by far, but also confirms international institutions, EU, OECD and others. This confirmation of the path taken in your own country and also through international organisations will and will continue to be true to us in the future: with continued work and continued efforts to secure Austria's future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to give you another personal note. Economists often talk about the so-called fundamentals of the economy, about the basic conditions, and thus more about inflation rates, interest rates, tax quotas and the like. I mean, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important economic conditions is social stability. Today, in a number of countries, we see that economic policy is often pursued under disregard, partly even at the expense of social stability – with massive negative consequences. Even in the U.S., those votes that indicate negative consequences of a Hire-and-Fire policy are already increasing, which indicate negative consequences of exclusive cost management. I once formulated this as a former financial director of a company, I asked: Brighten the power of the Financial Boards! They focus corporate policy on tax minimisation, on financial assets, but not on production, on new investments, on the development of new markets! – So I say here, too: Break the power of the financial directors, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This suggestion and the development in the USA should give us some thought. A long-term sustainable economic process is not against people, it is only for people and with them useful and feasible. Under compulsion, resignation and desillusion, there can be no long-term stability and no economic prosperity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, Austrian economic and social policy has committed itself to the path of consensus and has given wide scope to the early involvement of interest groups. This path has been successful in the past and is also important for us in the future, even though we have adapted to new conditions. The broad agreement of the Austrians on the role of the social partners, on the role of the Chambers, shows that this path of securing social peace is approved by the population. This signal is an order for all of us. Social stability is also one of the key factors for successful economic development. At the European Union level, we therefore support President Jacques Santer's efforts to achieve his confidence pact and dialogue at European level. The economic location of Austria has benefited significantly from this. The figures speak a clear language. In 1994, investments in Austria amounted to 560 billion Schilling, which is 24.8 percent of the gross domestic product. With the accession to the European Union in 1995, these investments increased to 591 billion, which is 25 percent of gross domestic product, and reached the pleasing brand of 616 billion schilling in 1996, with the investment rate rising to 25.2 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say a few words for the accession of Austria to the European Union. Of course, EU accession through rapid market opening for individual sectors has brought difficult adjustments. The problems arising from the shift in time between the rapid rationalizations in companies on the one hand and the slow development of the market and the opportunities of the common market on the other are also remembered by all of us. However, the balance sheet shows a very clearly positive picture. On average, Austrian food prices fell by 18 percent. Austria has significantly increased its exports to the EU countries despite real upgrading. As mentioned above, the inflation rate has fallen to less than 2%. Direct investment to Austria has continued to increase. For example, 41 Swiss companies have settled in Vorarlberg alone to process the European market from the Austrian site. A number of large-scale investments by companies already established in Austria, such as General Motors, Siemens, Lenzing,... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why does unemployment rise so dramatically? Why are there no apprenticeships?]] That is what you should ask the businessmen, Mr. Cot. Yes, yes! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Aha! Pontius Pilate! My name is Hase – "Hase Klima"!]] We should jointly consider who is responsible for apprenticeship issues but not push the blame on the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I think that this is a frenzied mentality that you are doing. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian industry has been able to increase its investment after accession to the EU, which is impressive. Investments increased from 1994 to 1995 to 49.6 billion schilling and increased to 59.5 billion in 1996. Mr Haigermoser: Increased to 59.5 billion! Violent! Do you agree with me? – Great! [[New calls to the liberals.]] I thank you for your consent. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, after some initial difficulties, the Austrian companies and research institutes are now also very successful in participating in the European research and technology programmes. There are already backflows of about 700 to 800 million schilling in direct research support. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me to point out that in recent years the international economic environment has changed greatly. Not only have the economic structures changed – we need to adapt – but also the institutions and instruments of economic policy are increasingly in international competition. But I think we can say that Austria's economic and monetary policy has so far mastered the adjustment to the changed situation. There's still a lot to do, a lot of things are going well, a lot of things are getting us worried. However, I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that continuing along the Austrian road, the path of negotiation, the path of reaching a consensus with clear objectives and consistent implementation, Austria will continue to be successful. Austrian society and the Austrian economy need innovation and calculable risk in our new economic policy. We know that in global competition only the performance of the people of a country counts. We build our economic policy precisely on ensuring work, prosperity and stability in Austria – and this is essential for social cohesion in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6599	Federal Minister! Thank you very much for your remarks. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6623	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a little difficult for a former Ghostwriter to give his first speech after a professional, especially because a Ghostwriter always sees himself writing when he hears others talking. Now I'm talking to myself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Calls.]] My Ghostwritership has been going back years, as a Secretary General, I was no longer. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: For whom, Mr. Minister?]] In my initial phase in the chamber. Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the statements made by the Minister for Climate. For someone who, like me, has been very much committed to joining the European Union for many years, such an opportunity is of course tempting, not to repeat the report, not to measure himself with a coroner, but to say what the personal summary is. In many of the work of the Economic Advisory Council, before we were able to convince the social partners and the government at that time, from 1988 to 1989, we have examined very carefully the economic and social considerations on which one should decide for accession. My three main personal economic policy arguments were at the time: de-discrimination of Austria's economic location and its safeguarding; Deregulation and liberalisation in areas which we would not create politically without accession, and the participation of Austria in the framework conditions within the European Union. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'm trying to sum up very briefly: I remind you: We were all afraid of Austria's economic location, because, because of the non-cooperation of the European Union's so-called agreements with the EFTA Free Trade Agreements, we had to fear with the newly opened Eastern European markets that passive processing would be completely lost. There would have been a de facto devasation of the multinational locations in Austria. If I look at the numbers today, I notice: We have a pluralization of passive processing traffic, and precisely those companies that we were afraid of are now beginning to have decisive investment phases. I don't need to quote them, you know them from the press. In order to secure the location, I must also say that we have never had so many requests from foreign investors before, without the famous question: How much support do we get? We simply improved our strategic location. On deregulation and liberalisation: I believe that we have all experienced, to name an example, Carinthia, directly after accession to the EU, how internal Austrian regulations, distribution commitments, indirect price commitments, de facto have led to a mass flight of consumers. The adjustment strategies – until a company's appeal to the cartel court – have now led to increased adjustments in price and distribution systems towards the internal market, which has led to a dramatic decline in the purchasing power flow. I have recently heard a complaint from the President of the Veneto region in another function, still in the old house; he said: We now have the problem that we have to close in Udine shops again because the Austrians are not! – In this respect, it has not been a lost attempt. Next point: Co-determination with the EU framework. We must have had to bring a year of education behind us in the first year. I can confess this very freely to you from my experience in the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs. The "integrating" into a closed group of experts, employees, officials is extremely difficult for newcomers. This can only be done if you invest sufficient time and the corresponding working capacity. It is certainly one of my concerns for my new place of business to make the most of these opportunities for co-determination. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I have seen with some satisfaction that, for example, the Internal Electricity Market Directive has largely implemented Austrian proposals. I'd like to be willing to give you the proof of truth. There are still a lot of things in front of us – that has already been pointed out by others – so let me now come to the consequences that I am drawing from this economic report, especially for the one that I now have to lead. Since Austria is a country where some 40 percent of the gross domestic product is produced from external trade, since Austria is an unusually high level of internationalisation – in Austria 74 percent of the gross domestic product is made up of exports and imports; on average, the internationalisation rate is only 54 percent; we know from all the data, including that of this report, that it is at present the export economy that bears our development – it will be one of the most important things to see what one needs to do in the export field in order to ensure this development, which must certainly be promoted beyond the first positive effects of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! I have put forward some strategies for discussion here and may point out one in detail: The export capacity of Austria is in no way related to the obstacles it is facing worldwide. I have written down – not to teach, but only to give an example, because I was able to write an opinion for the EU in another function – only the main trade barriers found by an Austrian investor or exporter in China, because this is interesting for the upcoming WTO accession negotiations. In China, foreign entrepreneurs have no right to go to the national court. They depend on arbitration courts and therefore legally delivered – this is a particularly difficult situation for small ones. The second: With every investment, including many imports, you have authorisation procedures in which you are provided with conditions that sometimes depend entirely on internal Chinese conditions. There are, for example, Austrian companies that are required in their investment to which countries they must or may not export. Let me give you an example of the real problem – I don't want to stop you for too long –: In Japan we made a market survey showing what the Japanese most value on holiday in Austria: It wasn't a city, it wasn't the Lipizzans, it wasn't a Heuriger, but the first priority was the wide range of fresh pastries in Austria. – This was after my appointment as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We then wanted to make a fresh bread in Japan with a large hotel chain. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's the basket?]] We have been waiting for the import permit for the first gram of Austrian flour for exactly three years – and that under free trade conditions! My first conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: As we have now joined the EU, which has largely replaced the EU's external trade competences, it is our first duty to serve the EU's market power on world markets in order to open up the hope markets. There is already an initiative by the Commission in this regard. The second point I would like to make is: It can't be that the Americans each start a trade war with an Asian state, the Europeans then rise and say: Please do not discriminate against us – equal treatment!, but there can only be a common strategy of the world's two largest economic blocks to open up these huge markets, these huge growth markets, for example in Asia, but also on other continents. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a strategy for which I do not need subsidies, for which I do not need a credit permit, I simply need coordinated political action. And for that I ask for the appropriate support! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The second strategy in this area – in this respect I am grateful to Mr Klima, because we have almost jointly developed this idea: Those who take money in foreign trade, foreign investment, are at higher risk. Now in Austria, since the opening of the East-West Fund, we have provided guarantees. We have seen, however, especially in Asia, also Latin America, that this type of guarantee – up to 50 percent of the risk involved – is not sufficient. We are in the final stages of the creation of so-called venture funds, venture financing funds, especially for China and Latin America, where the Austrian investor can be guaranteed 100 percent of the capital, he only carries the interest risk. In this way, we should be able to eliminate our so far too little external trade – we are excellent in the neighbouring markets, but too small on certain large growth markets. I only add as a parent thesis – I recall the example of China –: China has 22 percent of the world's population, 7 percent of land area, 6 percent of land area, 3 percent of water and 2% of natural resources. Under these premises, we can imagine which sectors of the Austrian economy have unprecedented possibilities in this country. Third strategy: co-ordinated policy market management. Ladies and gentlemen! In my teaching period as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, I have also been able to learn that in many markets in the world foreign ministerial delegations are giving their hands to exercise political influence in order to obtain certain advantages in the market. This plays an incredible role in Asia, but it also plays a major role in Latin America. For this reason, it will be important for the next time that all policy-makers working in this area in a coordinated care strategy will not be left unanswered by any Austrian intervention or wish for assistance from exporters. A fourth point, ladies and gentlemen: When you travel through the world with airplanes of any kind, you will see the real heroes of the Austrian economy, namely the export merchants. We see people who are on the move for weeks, who are still laboring to acquire foreign languages on the plane and catch up with all kinds of diseases. Many young merchants are no longer willing to put forth this effort. The export merchants have irregular working hours, have incredible things to deal with. I think we have a high job potential in this sector. We should, together with universities, economic and professional promotion institutions, try to satisfy the demand that is really rising rapidly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'll give you one more example: Before joining the EU, we had around 8,000 exporters in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, importers in our computers. In the meantime, the number of exporters – called "suppliers" in the single market – has almost tripled. This creates a labour market that must be cared for with best-qualified, committed men and women. – That’s about my export strategies. Ladies and gentlemen! Now there are not only companies that have proven themselves on the world market and want to continue to prove themselves, but we also have a lot of companies that have simple and simple problems with the current challenges. I do not want to say they are footmarod, but they have weaknesses in various areas. I therefore believe that, especially in order to limit these phenomenal insolvency issues, it is necessary to continue to give them advice, through a 'Eurofit Action II', in cooperation with, for example, the economic promotion institutions and other institutions, an almost institutional possibility of early warning. I was still a co-author, as a Ghostwriter at the time, the insolvency novel in 1983, in which we believed we were establishing an early warning system on the equality of demands. There's nothing out of it. One will probably have to start with the establishments rather than with those who then run to the bankruptcy judge. But this is a very important task. Our companies must in the broadest sense be eurofit – I am thinking of the banking sector – because what is happening to structural pressure is what we have to meet in good time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This country has a very high potential for possible companies – it has been mentioned several times today that we have a very low self-employed rate compared to other OECD countries – but we have relatively many obstacles to becoming self-employed, from mental to institutional to financial. If we want to develop something in this area, then do not let us fall into euphoria, because without hard bone work on regulations and institutions this will not be easy. Let me give you a few examples. I don't think it's important how much money a young businessman gets – that's not what it's all about; I'm for founder savings – it's going to be crucial to ensure that the equipment is given with a sufficient capital base, for example in the way of liability, accompanied by management control and advice on the difficulties of the market, possibly through, as you say in English, senior economic advisors, that is, by old, experienced people from the economy – and there are many, especially through early retirement. In this way, we could give the boys the chance to be more successful than today's insolvency statistics show: After two years half of them are gone again! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has been said by the Vice-Chancellor that one of my needs is the creation of a job, which is also discussed in the discussion. High house! It is true that one may have to make two, three jumps over one’s own shadow. First of all: One should not be able to deal with the experiences of other countries with prejudices. I myself had the pleasure of dealing with the American labour market. It has not been in America that loud McJobs, loud cheap jobs have been created in recent times, but most of the new professions have been created in businesses with zero to five employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum]] The large sector has gone a long way. The second point: In these companies, jobs are created in which learning by doing actually allows many increases. Thirdly, we can see this in the statistics: The income in these small professions is above the median of the American average companies. [[Call to the liberals:Bravo! Bravo!]] Therefore, I would really ask for an understanding of what I am now focusing on: We just have to try some things! Small and medium-sized enterprises, which create most jobs, have so far been the victims of all procedures! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I am going to give you an impetus to job creation, apart from the general rail sector, in terms of deregulation, process concentration, acceleration, because in this part of the deficit we have the most criticism of industrial settlements. There are always two criticisms: First: In Austria everything takes too long!, and second thing: It also takes too long to arrange working hours for new businesses. – I have to say that here too. Not the pay is the most crucial thing – this is what I would like to say, above all, to Mr Kaufmann, who has referred to me in relation to wage harvesting and similar things more. All those involved in international business settlements know that this is not the first question. Because many of the companies that have recently come to us have wage rates of 11, 12 percent – so they have 89 percent different costs. So you should not focus this on so mono. But it's a lot of flexibility, people are on the verge. A small interim report: Did you know that an Austrian company was appointed by the Japanese World Mother Group as the main group representative for Asia, that we are talking here in Austria about where we are building in China to supply the Japanese market? They don't think about leaving because they say: Quality is right, flexibility is right, and, in the meantime, public authorities are also right. I can tell you a story about this business – my speech has been too long, I'll stop right now –: A dark room was needed for the central production room. With our labour law regulations – bright light for employees – this failed for three months, despite an investment project of billions of schilling. The compromise then proclaimed: The canteen is completely glazed, and the pressroom may be dark. But it shouldn't have taken three months. – I am telling you this anecdode because it is being told about the management of this group worldwide. At the end of the day, however, they praise us. Ladies and gentlemen! I mentioned the US example, but I would also like to mention the Netherlands. In contrast to many other European countries, the Netherlands has created a high number of jobs, more than 2 million, since the 1970s, because they are more offensive than we are on the issue of part-time work. The whole of the Belgian secret is in it. You have to look at that. We can only learn from that. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to look at the fact that we also link a package for these small and smallest hope-makers, which consists of the elements of financing, consulting, tax-pensioning and, in my opinion, very looser flat-rate permits for the approval of such small businesses, in the case of abuse control and consultation by the labour inspector. They should keep standards, but they should not be prevented from continuing their operations. I am allowed to speak in an area, ladies and gentlemen, which is probably in all mouths: I am also responsible for tourism. We have developments in tourism, which are not all happy. We have to ask ourselves what we can do – I have been criticized for doing so today – so let me address three strategies. The first strategy: In view of the devastating financing situation in this sector, we have to come up with something innovative. I have been preaching for years that in this area one should introduce the system of the "eternal mortgage" or the fixed mortgage, which is also practiced in Switzerland. I can charge you at any time: 50 per cent of the estimated value is financed in such a way that only interest can be paid, no capital repayment. This means, for example, in a case where you – I have expected an example – have 10 million schilling credit, a reduction in interest rate burden by about a quarter. In other words, it is only possible to make a significant improvement in the development situation by using traditional financial instruments. They have certainly read about it; this concerns GiroCredit and others. We now have a competition for this sector, but we must ensure that something happens. The current financing structure is long-term. The second point in this area: We see that we are also losing a lot of guests because, due to the decline of international air prices, it is now cheaper to fly to Los Angeles than to a destination in the European internal market, which is one and a half hours away. Therefore, we should also use our presence in European bodies to ensure that air price relationships are established on the European internal market, such as those in the US internal market. Then again we have a bigger chance for certain parts of the clientele. Something else – for this I had to put a few beats, ladies and gentlemen, but that's not how it can be –: The main player of the Austrian tourism economy is still domestic tourism. You can imagine it for the Austrians, at five weeks minimum vacation – that is my appeal; I did not say that the Austrians should spend the whole vacation in Austria – at least to spend a little more of their holidays in Austria than before. This would be a sign of civil assistance to an industry for which one is fighting. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to come back to Mr Haider's statement and say: I didn't want to impose a domestic force on God. How should we do that? To put that to me is really not fair. Ladies and gentlemen! Another comment on the impact of our EU accession. I have already talked in connexion with the internal market about the sale power flow. We cannot regret that these are internal market movements, because the consumer is right, because it is very often the merchant's path finder. But there is a need to make the structural conditions, the framework conditions of opening hours to pricing more flexible. Otherwise, it is in the East Markets. Because of what we've been experiencing lately in increasing purchasing power flow with a devasion of the supply structure in border areas of innhouses, food dealers, it's, I think, legitimate to set up a Taferl – not a stopboard as I was supposed to be – with the motto: Work in Austria, shopping abroad – how long? I am also with President Schwarzenberger and say that the table could also be: In Austria admire the flowers, but buy the fruits abroad, of which no cultural landscape lives! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In order that no one may misinterpret me in the question of domestic consumption – in its initial denunciations, it is partly cited in incomplete terms: I said: From the Austrian economic policy of the last decades, we know that the Austrian will save more and spend more on economic growth. It's easy to understand. 1 per cent more of the available income is about 15 billion schilling that go into domestic consumption. If you know what these 15 billion schilling means when you have to spend so much money directly on the public hand, then you see, it's a reasonable lever. That's why my appeal was: There is no reason to be afraid, but there are very many good reasons for optimistic investment. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me make one more point because it is always said that the Austrian is totally risky when spending money. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians spend 11.6 billion schilling for gambling in the year, with a very low chance of winning. It should be possible for economic policy to invest part of this capital for far better chances of profit – securities, companies and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe you should talk less about saving shares, more about playing shares. – I should get real. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Minister! It's not a good sign if the Austrians prefer to go to the casino!]] On a point which is an important area of my sector: In the first enunciations, on the other hand, I have spoken out merely to be called a minister for shop closure and business order. I said it's this one. The area of one of my priorities in the broadest sense, when we look at it from the economic point of view. Tissue regulation, liberalisation, deregulation are in the room, I would like to talk about some of the conditions. This was my opening programme for plant law, which was the question of tax treatment, including the equal treatment of different business sectors, no matter where they come from. This also concerns a lot of things about de-bureaucratisation, and this is especially the case today – which has been called today several times – which is not at all funny development in the apprenticeship sector. More and more companies prefer to wait for well-trained apprentices than to make the effort of training themselves. I have listened very openly to the proposal by honourable Member Kaufmann, who has reported the low Austrian mood. I'd be glad if this show were to follow a concept, which says how it's supposed to be. Otherwise, we will immediately end up again in a debate on the need for a state to be a tax system, an internal compensation. I'm completely ready for discussion. If we can continue to keep the pleasure of the Masters in training when this bundle, which I have now only spoken of in approaches, is finished, then the rest – deregulation and liberalisation – should not fail. But a liberalisation and deregulation which distorts us from training that destroys the motivation of the little ones would be the worst thing that can happen to this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I still owe you a sentence on technology policy. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, it is far too little known that Austria is well above the EU average on the issue of innovation, such as patent applications, and that we are above the EU average, particularly in the implementation of new technologies. We should not make ourselves worse than we are. Only: We should also better position technology in more positive acceptance. My last comment: Ladies and gentlemen! I am very optimistic that we can achieve something if we complement the traditional location advantages of Austria, the comparative advantages that are there: first, a very good system of education and training in the international comparison, second, very good professional skills in the international comparison, and also a good system of training and third social peace, by two things, namely through greater flexibility and the dynamics that we live in. I conclude my remarks with an inaccurate remark: When I went to the office early this morning, at about 6 o'clock, there was a real race of men and women who were on the road in the cars to get to their place of work. A people who have been blessed with such stressors should, in fact, only create the framework conditions for those who are skilled, then it fits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6818	Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for your comments. We are now going into the debate. A speaking time was set as follows: SPÖ 90 minutes, ÖVP 84 minutes, Free 78 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 54 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6845	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Economic Affairs! I can give my approval to many of your statements or to my group, but we have heard a lot of them here in the House: from your predecessor Wolfgang, from your predecessor John the First, now we hear it from the successor John the Second. I am very excited whether you will definitely implement these things that you have announced here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! They said it was about creating a framework for the formation of equity. This is what the predecessors Schüssel and Ditz have always claimed here in the House. – Nothing came. The opposite is true: As the last capital-strengthening instrument, the investment reserve has been abolished after the investment premium has already been abolished. As a result of the constant separation between the trade balance and the tax balance due to an extension of the depreciation period also with regard to the company's cars, there has recently been an increasing tax burden on the medium-sized economy and, of course, on all companies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your predecessors have always demanded: We want to create equity financing models, equity financing models for the medium-sized economy, because the large companies can help by going to the capital market in the form of stock companies, or they have a better access to refinancing via cash templates. There is nothing passing in this regard, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs. To date, it is still the case that the largest foreign financial instrument of the Austrian economy or of the Austrian companies is still credit financing. We have heard here in the high house again and again: Liberalisation of trade regulations, liberalisation of charging – nothing happened. Our hopes are really to you, Minister of Economic Affairs, that you will finally implement those measures which have been announced by your predecessor or predecessor. We will support you in this. Our clubman Jörg Haider has also already announced our support in this respect. But it is also about trying to relieve the economy at last. New strains occur over and over again. You come with the parking tax, the entrepreneurs should collect the fee for the health certificates at the level of 50 s. 43 000 employees in the Austrian economy are already engaged in administrative activities for the public sector – in the area of wage tax or in the field of social security charges, local tax, beverage tax and chamber handling. The entrepreneur doesn't get anything for this. If one considers today that at the time the AF contribution had to pay 8.5 percent to the Minister of Finance – only for the requirement of the collection or the transfer to the Chamber of Commerce – that the ORF should pay 4.5 percent only for the fee requirement to the post office, it is understandable that the entrepreneur is no longer willing to carry out this work free of charge for the federal government, but on the other hand to be punished in the form of operational and tax audits and health insurance checks if anything was done wrong. That won't happen in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Again and again, Mr. Finanzminister has just presented his experiences at the Intergovernmental Conference or at the ECO Committee, saying that job creation is the central issue of the European Union, that the European Union is the guarantee of full employment. This must be avoided: We have 18.7 million unemployed in the European Union. In the European Union, for example, no measures have been taken in the field of the COSAC Committee for job creation at all. Foreign Minister Dini has said that the hope for jobs has not been fulfilled. The Santer Plan for work and more employment is shipped. The funds actually made available for investment in the trans-European networks cannot be used for job-creating investments, but 60 billion are going out of this area to combat the madry of cattle. Here you would like to explain to the House or the Austrian people that Austria had a pioneering role to play in the initiatives for job creation in the context of the EU conference that this issue was at the heart of the agenda. It wasn't even a margin theme. It was also at the eco-meeting in which you yourself were present, the issue of full employment was only a marginal issue because the European Union is currently dealing with other things. This is also the problem, Mr Finanzminister, with whom you have to face yourself. 75 000 jobs in industry have been lost between 1990 and 1994. You have always claimed that you are the great job-creator that you are the representatives of the workers. – In recent years, this federal government has succeeded: it has taken away a lot of people from work instead of giving work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They always think only of large companies, of the export economy. But you have no understanding at all for small and medium-sized enterprises, although the SME, for example, accounts for 75 percent of turnover, which is an investigation carried out in April or May 1996. 75 per cent of all jobs are provided by the middle class, and 75 per cent of the total tax revenue comes from the middle class. Their policy has so far been not to do anything for the middle class in this area at all. They did not care about the medium-sized countries in this regard, for example, that tax-saving measures for the formation of capital would have been initiated at last. You have done exactly the opposite, and you can also see how you have dealt with the middle class or the construction economy concerned in this structural adjustment law. Mr Finanzminister, we have criticized you during the budgetary negotiations when you said: The budget is now in order for 1996 and 1997. We will achieve the convergence criteria in relation to the deficit, with a magnitude of 2.9% in 1997. In 1996, we won't make it. At the time, they had to take back the growth forecast and simply used some amount in the order of 3.8 billion schilling from privatisations in order not to let the deficit explode. But, on the other hand, you said in the course of this four-pack at the time: We are setting up economic measures in the form of an increase in housing to 30 billion schilling: from 23.6 billion to 30 billion shillings to boost housing in the countries. There are appropriate support measures to create jobs there. You then tabled an amendment to the Committee: There is now a commitment to the purpose of promoting housing only up to 25.2 billion schilling, the rest being available to the countries. We criticized you back then, and Kramer from the Economic Research Institute says that was... no. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Idealism!]] ==References====External links== In June 1996, it is precisely the problem that the commitment of 24.5 billion schillings ceases, no new housing measures are put in place in the Federal Republic of Germany and the difference to the 30 billion will be made available to the countries to stop their budget holes. This was not in the sense of the structural package. In this way, economic incentives should be put in place. Here you have only put in place measures so that budgetary policy in the countries can be remedied. Especially in the context of the construction industry, there are currently the biggest problems, first of all because you have abolished the construction model, and secondly, there is the problem of existing project funding. Mr Finanzminister! Imagine a builder investing in a project in 1994, buying the property in 1994 and having the total preliminary costs for this project in 1994/95: interest rates, planning costs, development costs. The project will then be implemented in 1996 and 1997. These start-up costs, which are due to be accounted for as losses in 1994/95, cannot be taken into account due to your Structural Adjustment Act, as the loss advances in the following years 1996 and 1997 cannot be realized, and this will cause the builders serious difficulties. That is to say, the sales revenues of the individual housing companies, the construction companies, represent significant profits because the preliminary costs of 1994/95 cannot be claimed as a loss premium. This will lead to further problems in this area in particular, and probably also to further destruction of jobs. We told you: Set up business-invigorating measures! It was also a matter of limiting social abuse in this working paper. In view of the fact that the Kepler University in Linz is about 161 billion schillings, we have already proposed the savings package from the liberal group, the so-called Luxembourg model, which provides that house builders, houses and houses will be partially recovered from VAT. This model has been introduced, and on the part of the Wifo, there is an investigation into the fact that, if only a 20 per cent VAT refund is granted and the whole model remains for three years, 11 000 jobs can be created and 7 000 unemployed can be less registered. This is an investigation on the part of the Wifo. This is the effect of a reduction or refunding of VAT of only 10 percent. Why don't you do it? You strangled the building master model. You have created major problems with the removal of the loss premium for the project companies, and you have failed with the Luxembourg model a huge opportunity to create more jobs, to finance fewer unemployed, through a tax-refunding in the form of VAT. The effect would have been that on the one hand, you might have had less sales revenue on 5 billion schilling, but 7 billion schilling could have made new revenue. Mr Finanzminister! They just went here – and this has also been shown by your report, which was rather unlovingly presented; Your report was unloving in so far as you said: 1996, 1997 we have done everything that happens in 1998... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] I'm not going to put it to you, but it seems like you're not interested in it. They only want to reach the convergence criteria by 1997. Everything that happens after that, the load package that will be imposed on it, will probably be much worse than the one that has caught us now. If you say that you are surprised that the burden package has not left any marks on the population or that the population has responded very calmly, I must stop you: That's not art! The burden will only work, but they have not yet worked, Minister of Finance. So far, nothing has worked. Only those who have the allowances from 1st. It has already been felt on June; in the case of special payments it has been felt that it was no longer possible for social security to have reduced the basis for the calculation of the normal salary, but otherwise the awakening will only come later. Mr Finanzminister! Repeat They suggest to the Austrian population that two thirds of expenditure savings on the one hand are already only a third of revenue increases on the other side. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel said that the health insurance package was perfectly tied: two-thirds of expenditure savings, one-third revenue increase. – Please show me the two thirds of savings in expenditure. I can't find her. You have found the one third increase in revenue: in the form of a health certificate fee, in the form of increases in contributions for pensioners. In such areas you are always very inventive. They always want to go through the budget for 1996/97, cost it what it wants. Whether the operation is going well, I also have great doubts about it, because only with regard to revenue tax revenue was the development in May more the same as in 1995. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: One to five!]] One to five is 10 billion more. But, of course, there has been an effect here, namely the conversion of the simple sales tax to excise duty at that time in January 1995. – You know that, too. These 10 billion were not an increase due to higher revenues, but it was the conversion effect. They will probably not carry out the operation in this direction. They are not prepared to bring about changes in the structures. They only want to get their hands on the Austrian population. We will still not play part in this policy, and at the next election it will show you the population again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6934	Mr Deputies has been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e6955	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trattner! If you have first said that you cannot see the savings in the local health phone, I would remind you of a debate here in the House a few days ago, but I would also like to point out that this will still be the subject of further debates, for example, that Minister Hums, in cooperation with the main association, has achieved a reduction in the cost of doctors, that one billion pharmaceuticals should be saved – the contracts must also be designed accordingly – that some 500 million schilling should be brought in to the reliefs you have discussed, and that 300 million shillings should be saved in the administrative area. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Toil!]] These are not news, they are already known to the public. [[Abg. May. Trattner: But not two thirds, Mr President!]] That's all right if you count the sums that it's actually about. Since you have also noted that the level of employment - and I think I have listened well - has fallen in recent years, I would also think that facts and figures are against it. We can check it later in the minutes. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in unemployment in the last year, but we should nevertheless be proud that in Austria we have long been able to maintain a high level of employment compared to other countries. At a time when other countries have already lost their jobs, there is a positive sign of growth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In his opening speech and in his economic report, the Minister for Economic Affairs referred briefly to the American problem or the American situation in employment. I assume, Minister, that you have referred to the Stiglitz report, and here you refer in particular to the Council of Economic Advisors for President Clinton. It is indeed true that, if you look at American employment, you can be impressed by the number of additional jobs created. I'm sure that's true. But in one I must contradict you, Minister, on the quality and income of these jobs. In this respect, a report also refers to the Stiglitz report, under the title "Look before you buy", i.e.: Check before you actually buy. This report addresses, in particular, the Europeans who are now running up to the American employment miracle and who say: What they brought together, we should actually do. Let's take a closer look at this: From 1979 on, average American workers' income fell by 10 percent compared with 1979. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: With our construction workers already 15 percent!]] Since 1980, 20 percent of income earners have been able to gain 97 percent of income growth, 80 percent, i.e. the majority, the average of American workers: 3 percent. The ratio of the average employee income to the income of a managing director or director-general of a company was 1 : 35, Minister, 1994 is 1 : 179. As proof of this, I have here – it's not exactly a trade union newspaper – yesterday's "Financial Times": Income of Directors-Generals increased by 23 per cent last year, employees' income on average remained stable or increased by a maximum of 1 per cent. – This is not the American employment miracle! They have rightly spoken about the number and quantity of jobs created in America by small and medium-sized enterprises. That's right. But you also know – you know the American situation – that most of these small and medium-sized enterprises in America do not have social security systems, that they do not have internal pension plans, and thus the American worker is on average far from what we understand under a European social security system. At the end of this study you will find the recommendation to us Europeans: Citizen, if you want to buy it, look it first. I think we should really look at this more closely and not just focus on it as a positive one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, I should like to focus on the efforts of the Federal Government that, as Mr Klima has indicated today, the Austrian Federal Government will work at the World Trade Organisation Conference in Singapore to ensure that social standards are included as mandatory regulations. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you also said: Purchases Austrian quality. You have just mentioned the compulsory leave in Austria again. I would like to add something to your example of how to look at the flowers in Austria: Perhaps we could also achieve that the entrepreneurs do not produce abroad, because this does not create a buyer in Austria. Let's give an example: How does a worker take Semperit? Your message: Purchases Austrian quality, makes holidays in Austria! where in a company making profits which is technologically up-to-date, the following is indicated: We're going to the Czech Republic, because there's a cheaper production there? I believe that a strong and clear reputation from your mouth would be important in this regard: Stay in Austria, produced in Austria! It must not be so that the profit target is shifted abroad, while the Austrians are being asked to: Purchases Austrian quality, makes holidays in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, you rightly address apprenticeship training, but it would be more useful than ever if we were to boast of the dual system and say that dual training in Austria is important not only for half of the young people in Austria, but also for the future of the Austrian economy, that we finally stop the pointless dispute that vocational schooling is a lost time for business. If duality means that the apprentice receives his knowledge in the company and in the vocational school, then we should finally stop boasting of the dual system, but the time spent by the apprentice in the vocational school we call it a burden on the companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: The practice!]] Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. We can now, if I interpret him polemically, follow your minister and represent "learning by doing", there is no need for any apprenticeship training system at all. In his speech he explains that without training, but only at work, knowledge could be acquired – that is, we no longer need an apprenticeship system at all. You pay the apprentices well, and somehow they will already acquire their knowledge. But that's not our goal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this new brochure "New momentum for teaching through the discharge of teaching firms" is significant. Do you know what is the first point for the new teaching? – The teaching contract must be easier to solve. This is the quality requirement for the Austrian vocational training system? Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the announcement of the Chamber of Commerce for young people who leave school in a few days to enter a teaching, then, I believe, we are thrown back far in our efforts to improve training accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we should strive for together – I have the feeling, in many discussions, that the common position is in the foreground, but this seems to be the opposite in public statements – is that the young person receives a good and qualified basic training in the context of apprenticeship training, which should ultimately be the condition for lifelong learning. This training is also intended to help to justify his existence. In the end, with this knowledge on the labour market, he should find his income and income and justify his existence in life by having the will and also by encouraging him to learn for life. I am convinced that the ideas, the ideas here, together with Mr. Federal Minister Hums, who has set the initiative, with Minister Klima, Minister Gehrer and also with you, Mr. Federal Minister, will hopefully lead to the success that apprenticeship training as a dual system for half of the Austrian youth will also have a future and will not only end on a purely cost-discussion topic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Finally take time for the apprentices!]] We have also discussed the question of the European Union within the framework of the economic report. I believe it is important to do everything possible to achieve a single European currency. Monetary devaluations, whether in Sweden or Italy, cannot be picked up by the best rationalization, by the strongest wage reduction. We therefore need this European currency. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I should like to make it clear that this European currency only makes sense if we maintain jobs, create jobs, otherwise it will be a dead currency. I agree to the following comparison: In the 1930s we had the Alpine dollar, the hard Austrian schilling, but we also had 600 000 unemployed – and that should not be our goal, nor should it be in a common Europe. There must therefore be more important than cattle and criminals, so there must be more important than a timetable. I refer to this "more important" than the creation of jobs in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the construction industry is addressed in the context of this report, I think it would also make sense to think more about why it was actually possible in the 1970s to maintain employment in the construction industry for about 11 months a year, and why, today, at a time of further development of the construction industry, we can only ensure employment in the construction industry between seven and eight months a year on average. Something must have happened. Is it the contract award? Is it the short date? Is it the tender guidelines? I think you should think more about it. What has just been achieved in the area of the social partners, namely to reorganise construction time, will not be enough. We should really think about it: What has led to this development, that the pressure on the construction sites is increasing and that, despite the best planning, we do not actually come to any real annual employment? One may be positive about it, Minister of Economic Affairs: If you make the South motorway your daily traffic route, the traffic congestion may be reduced by cooperation with the Minister of Transport. You can then also bring your daily experience as a minister. That will certainly be the joy of those on the south coast. Ladies and gentlemen! Creating work is often dealt with as a social policy issue in our debates too. Creating work must not be set as a goal by step back to performance standards. I personally believe that the future of the economy lies in quality. And if the future of the economy is in quality, why are there always approaches that one speaks of a withdrawal of some social policy performance, of arrears in wage developments in the economy? – The quality concept seems to be considered only for the economy, apparently the one that participates in economic life – the employee – as a cost factor on two legs. And that should not be our goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What course do we want to take? If we look more closely at the economic report, we can see that Austria has been able to maintain its top European position by hard work both for workers and for entrepreneurs in recent years. It has succeeded in securing and developing this in a wide range of areas. We should also benefit more than ever from the opportunities of the European Union – but not under the title of how it is announced worldwide and in particular in Europe: Wage reduction, social reduction, and if that has happened, then the economy will flourish again, but we should not become cheaper, but better, as German Chancellor Vranitzky said some time ago. What we want, on the other hand, is the preservation of the welfare state, which provides protection for all levels of the population, regardless of their personal situation, and which does not lead to an elbow society. The most important economic policy objective is and remains full employment, and this requires a strengthening of economic growth and, of course, a strengthening of overall economic stability. The question is often asked enough: How can we achieve this stability? – I am personally convinced of this: If we accept more than ever the training of our young people, but not just them. One must finally stop saying to an older worker: You don't have the qualification, you're not as trained as we need it. We need to cancel you, we have to solve the working relationship. – And five minutes later you hear of the same entrepreneur: Where are the trained people? Why do we interrupt the working relationship to get more education? Why do we not at last come to the point that if workers are no longer needed in one area, they will be prepared at the workplace for new skills and not sent to unemployment in order to get their training? – I believe that there is a loss of friction here, which costs us all a lot of money and, above all, human suffering. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will say that these are just keywords, but I believe that it is more than ever necessary to carry out a critical examination of our infrastructure. Investment in transport, environment, energy and telecommunications needs to be further improved. I do not mean here the policy of Director-General Draxler of the Federal Railways, who apologises his timetable for the absence of the double-stock wagons he would like to have. - Then he should have ordered them earlier. For four years, the Federal Government has been working together with the social partners in a fight to make a corresponding order. – Every time the price situation fails, he now takes it as a loose excuse for his travel plan inability. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the infrastructure policy I mean. I believe that it is for everyone in the area of transport, the environment, energy and telecommunications - for everyone! – must provide a corresponding solution. [[Abg. Kiss: Isn't Draxler a comrade?]] [[Abg. Koppler: What does that have to do with this?]] You also have to speak the truth! This may be the difference in politics. I think that is necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this infrastructure can improve the welfare of society as a whole. The loophole in the high-level road network, the guarantee of financing and development and conservation measures by the introduction of the road toll system, as it has already been mentioned today, certainly also belong to this. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Finance has said today that the ECOFIN Council will deal with the question of the employment of TEN networks. – Minister of State! I hope that I have understood you correctly: not in Dublin in December, but soon in Dublin, when the ECOFIN Council meets there, there is already the opportunity, so you do not have to wait until December. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Yes!]] I have the feeling that the European governments have again agreed on December as a Christmas present. But I would like to say critically: There's been something like that in food. It was said for Christmas, too, that you create employment. - That's three years ago! We should be faster and take advantage of the opportunity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is also about the fact that, for example, through new financing possibilities – divestments and utility programs of the Federal Property Society – funds are available for necessary new buildings, for necessary renovations, for building assassinations, to have a corresponding use of funds for housing, because all this, ladies and gentlemen, creates employment – as well as investment in connection with district heating. I am also personally convinced that it makes sense to search through all the administrative approval procedures, but in this respect we should also have a mirror: How often is a new law in this House called for by a new regulation, how often is it required to introduce even more stringent regulations there or there, to regret five minutes later that the approval of the individual projects takes too long? That is, if we call for a reforestation of the relevant laws, then we are primarily called upon here in this House to ensure that the laws are appropriate, and should not talk to authorities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The export offensive is only to be welcomed and supported, and what the Minister of Economic Affairs has said is that we must achieve a larger export radius, which is 100 % right. We must not be content with the German market as the main partner; our quality deserves to be recognized in international economic life far beyond the German market. It is also clear that foreign large companies like to come to Austria, because the quality is estimated to be very high for different reasons – Opel, Siemens, Philips, to name just a few who have made billions of investments in Austria in recent weeks and months, together with the Federal Government. And if the Minister for Economic Affairs has said that wage costs are not the decisive thing, I would like to say a little critical: In the debate recently at BMW in Steyr, when it came to an additional investment, it was about a total wage cost of 0.01 percent – 0.01 percent! – which should be used as a decision on whether or not to expand a site such as Steyr. So there seem to be quite different views. Finally, trade union negotiations have succeeded in not maintaining this aspect as an issue, because it is actually a disappearing size throughout economic life. Ladies and gentlemen! Innovation and the speed of implementation are becoming increasingly important, and I therefore believe that we should also make a leap away from the keywords of research funding to a concerted action between research funding at universities, research funding in the enterprises, and also turn to international research policy. In my opinion, this also includes a reform of technology promotion, improved coordination in the use of support instruments, as well as an increase in funding. Ladies and gentlemen! If one considers the labour market as part of economic policy, it is also a question of not talking about disorderly access to the labour market. The aim must be to preserve, on the one hand, the employment opportunities of the Austrians and, on the other hand, those of our colleagues who have come from abroad, as well as their relatives. This means that we should not be led by a debate, as it is now being held in the Federal Republic of Germany on the issue of labour costs for foreign workers - we have acted much earlier in Austria - but we should bear in mind that when we bring someone into the country, we bear the same responsibility for him as for those who already live in the country. Cheap tags – 150 000 we send home again, then we no longer have unemployment! – heat up the political atomic sphere, but in reality do not solve any problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The question must be answered, ladies and gentlemen: How many people can we employ in our country? How many people can we integrate in our country under reasonable wage, labour, social and social conditions – from housing to school to society? This question may not be pleasant, but whoever does not ask this question actually looks past the problem, he creates ghettos with all the consequences that we know. Ladies and gentlemen! I also think it is important to address public services in connection with the economic report. In this respect, we are faced with new challenges – I have already mentioned them –: The question of regulation or deregulation is not a question of civil service alone, but it is a question that we have to ask ourselves here in the House. But we should also stop the repeatedly latent diffamation of public or public undertakings by saying: Privately, this is much better! – In all efforts towards greater efficiency, we must not assume that the citizen of our country is entitled to public services which are, above all, socially acceptable, prices which are properly implemented and where the aim is not the focus of profit alone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we should also thank the public servants in this House for the daily work done, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: But they don't overwhelm here either!]] This can also be developed together. I do not think we should constantly express our opinion: If there was no public service, we would in principle have a clot on our leg less. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: We shouldn't overload the staff here in the house! That's what I meant!]] I believe that it is also important that Austrian owners' interests be brought to the fore. – I have already mentioned an example: Semperit, I call a second: Unilever. – It shows the importance of being able to make decisions in Austria and not exclusively in foreign group headquarters. It is one of the economic policies that links the question of economic development with the word "flexibilisation" and "deregulation of the labour market". My previous speaker also pointed out that nothing had actually happened in the shop opening. I am always surprised that, with a moderate effort, the entrepreneurs now point out: We opened our shops by 7.30 p.m. Finally, we can do that! Ladies and gentlemen! This law has been passed here a few years ago, which allows us to keep open longer. Only the possibility of use is a very small one, and most of the time it is linked to the fact that the worker is required to work at a zero rate. That's not how it's going! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 200 percent supplement, that's a little bit too!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: There are collective agreements!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I understand your excitement, but I am also thinking of the speaker of a large trading chain in Austria, who says: It must finally end with the award payments at longer opening hours! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Within weekly working time!]] In the event of longer opening hours, he has to conclude with the award payments, he has said. That's what we've done. That is the content of a collective agreement, Mrs Colleague! And we should also stand in the interests of the employees in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Here in the house the public service staff are damned to work around the clock!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about deregulation, we should also focus on a few studies in the European Union. In connection with the social dialogue, Directorate-General V has prepared a study entitled "Deregulation and Employment", and I quote from this study: Overall, the employment situation in the European Union has not improved in the sense of a higher employment rate and a lower unemployment rate since deregulation began. In contrast, the least regulated labour markets in the developed world, the United States and the United Kingdom have had a dramatic increase in pay gap. Ladies and gentlemen! This is deregulation, as we do not want it! If we recognize full employment as our goal, then I believe in summary that investment in infrastructure, improved education and training, reasonable cooperation, based on economic policy, humanity and predictability, must in fact be the priority. Let us take advantage of the opportunities of our experience as Austrians in international competition, with the aim of rethinking the future in which man does not become a cost factor!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7280	Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7302	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was trying to find my replica on the budget speech of the Federal Minister of Finance and to read it again. Minister! What you have told us today was interesting, was also factually well-founded, one could agree – at least I didn't notice anything at the speed where I could really contradict you and have to say that you are wrong – but there was nothing new about it at all. What you have told us today, we all find each other in your budget speech, with the exception of a term – I noticed – and that is the innovative policy mix. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: That was already in the budget speech!]] That was already included in the budget speech? [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Here you see the honesty of the Minister!]] Then I didn't really impress him at the time. - I appreciate that. – He appeared new to me today. Although I have to confess, of course, even to you, dear Kurt Heindl, I must say that I could not see anything except the innovation of the word, especially no innovation of politics. In the last two years, since I was a member of this House, Austrian financial policy has offered nothing to innovation – and nothing essential in the years before. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not pretend that we can invent something sensational or new in financial policy. What we can do is to be serious about the instruments of a financial, economic and monetary policy. And, Minister, if you are dealing with this instrument in a serious and professional manner, then you do not need a spring in addition to the hat, for that is already a remarkable achievement! Therefore, they do not need to favour us or the Austrian population so to speak, here is or something that is particularly innovative and new, because that unfortunately does not exist God. I'd like you to! Minister! I agree with you – I have always done so – that you are good will, that you are professionally competent, that you are both serious and honest. But I do not agree with you that you can use some innovation in this economic and monetary policy. And I regret it! I believe, Mr Federal Minister – and now I come to the essence of my observations today – that you must act as a prisoner in a government coalition, which does not allow for the full scope of your will to design. Minister Klima! This is very interesting: You have made a very critical remark about American relations in an byword of your speech – you have not even emphasized it at all. I wrote this extra, because it was also very funny: On the one hand, you have spoken about the conditions in the USA – the miracle of a job – and on the other hand you have said: Brighten the power of the Financial Boards! This is a subject I like to talk to you about. I will also talk to my Chief Financial Officer about what he thinks if I break his power. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I was one myself!]] I know, Minister. That's why we talk so loosely, because I know you were one, still a very good one, as much as I know. Maybe you should have stayed, Minister. That might be the only question. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] Minister! They always point out how good we are. Once we are the third richest country, once the second-richest country, then again the fourth-richest country. They act as if we had no worries, no pressure and no really serious problems. And then you always say, I would also point out that we still have a lot to do. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Structural reforms!]] Yes, Minister! You and I, we know, the hat is actually burning! We have more than a lot to do. We haven't solved the crisis yet. The savings package is not even in force yet, it is now starting to act slowly. The impact on the Austrian population is not yet felt, and it is not yet possible to estimate whether the social peace which you have promised them holds. We do not yet know how the Austrians react to it, especially if we do not find the result with this power act of the 1996/1997 budgets, and if we have to argue for other small but highly explosive packages, such as rehabilitation of the health insurance funds, such as rehabilitation of the insolvency fund, which is also called for. It is not even the basis for us to be able to give warning. Federal Minister! I believe, of course, - and here again and again I regret that I have such a diametrically different opinion with you, not only with you, but also with some others in the government and here in the house - that we owe a great deal to social partners and consensus policy in Austria after 1945. But on the other hand, I also believe – and am unfortunately convinced of God – that today, since we no longer have increases, today, since we cannot determine a distribution of additional economic growth, additional prosperity, but unfortunately we must distribute burdens, this kind of social partnership and consensus cannot function anymore. We're only at the beginning, and you must have noticed how much it gnashed. They themselves have admitted that it was in the rounds of negotiations up to the limits of human profitability. One fought for nullities, trifles, came out necessary, but no big throws. You should not refuse, you should not limit your imagination if you think about what this means for the future. We always believe and say that: We need a new culture of conflict. We must express the differences and the opposites, the different opinions, the different views. Mr. Stumbling! If you've been listening to Mr. Vergestnich before, you'd have to pick up your hair, broom it, go out... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He doesn't have any more!]] It's sausage! Then put on a toupet, then you have some again. But you'd have to pick it up, you couldn't sit here quietly and calmly and just listen to it. That, please, ladies and gentlemen, is insurmountable. There's nothing more that we could manage in a consensus, social partnership. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm going to run out of it. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! She – and this has bothered me too – always start to discuss and challenge with street mob. It is always, as it were, a threat: Look at the conditions in Germany now, earlier in France or in Italy! On the streets, on the other hand, there are tourists, fictitrants and ostriches. That, Mr Federal Minister, is not the ideal picture, I think. But I think it is quite compatible and compatible in a democracy with a reasonable economy and also with an internationally good reputation, when occasionally particularly affected groups articulate their protest. And as long as it is somewhat disciplined and democratic, it cannot be banned or defied from the outset. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Madam President! I don't want it, either, but it's not up to you to say: There are two ways: either social partnership consensus and everything under the spell "maddle" – my interpretation, I admit, you say: to negotiate consensually and find a compromise – or, if we do not achieve this, it threatens the street mob! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Your words!]] This comparison is not permitted. And something else, Minister of State: You too must know, of course, that consensus and compromise also affect quality. You need to know that there are sometimes simple things where a compromise does not assume the quality of 50 percent, but where the compromise destroys the quality, where after the compromise a quality is no longer present. And in such measures, ladies and gentlemen, in particular you of the EIA, you should defend yourself and not speak of consensus. The Federal Minister for Climate Change, you have correctly noted that in recent years, and especially since our accession to the EU, all the economic conditions and everything around it have been subject to a dramatic change and that there is only a small number of comparable things that have been done before. But I believe that policy has not, or by far, not sufficiently, undergone a comparable change. In politics we have the state ante. We do not have a change in policy, and unfortunately we do not have any co-developed instruments. And, Mr Federal Minister, because people feel this and because they feel that Austrian politics has also become too weak to enforce and dare to take the risk of the unknown, that is why they have lost confidence and are disillusioned. Federal Minister! They say quite correctly that we need optimistic entrepreneurs and no pitiful and no professional pessimists, as they do here in the hall. I admit this: I am not one of the prominent specimens of this genus, but I have already told you: Unfortunately, neither do I see any particular reason to be optimistic. But if you say that optimism is necessary, that under compulsion, resignation and desillusionation there is no stability and no economic prosperity in the long term, I agree with you. Yes, Federal Minister, if you were to bring more risk of political innovation, then, I believe, we could take a step forward in this regard. But you must not complain and not complain if the entrepreneurs of this country do not share your optimism. Now to you, Minister of Trade. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: For economic affairs!]] – Now I am completely confused, because now I have to think: Is he now called Farnleitner or Farngruber? But I know you're called Farnleitner. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Without h!]] Yeah, I know. Federal Minister Farnleitner! Unfortunately, the resort you have now taken over and have been reserved for many years by ÖVP ministers has not gained the weight it would actually deserve because of a really ridiculous coalition hater in the last government reform. I think it is really a hairthrowing ridiculousness and a blamage in this world that is the poor Scholten Federal Minister for Science, Art and Transport. The combination alone is so perverse that I must say it is a shame for this coalition, and it is a shame for you, Kurt, and all you who sit there, that you could not go and say: Yes, a combination between the remaining Ministry of Transport and the Federal Ministry of Trade would be useful, and then a number of agendas can be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. That would have been useful, Minister of State! It would also have been a bit innovative if there had been a signal that it was no longer about the party dispute, no longer about the demarcation of spheres of influence, but that objective motives were in the foreground and no small-cared party thinking. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! So you only inherited a rudiment from what you could have inherited. But after all, you have inherited something that has been responsible for and to be represented by an ÖVP minister for many years. And you hear the same words again and again: We need an educational offensive, a technology offensive, a founding offensive and an export offensive. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He learned!]] And if we've done all that, then the economy will really be fine. – It has already said one today: Andreas, you know little about business, but what an offensive is, you'll know, too, I suppose. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! I would like to thank you for your high level of competence, especially with your horse export. You are right if you say that the Austrian economy needs new markets, and they need not only to be open to large, but above all to small and medium-sized enterprises. Wide Passes I was pleasantly surprised by your speech, and once again I got something out of your first newspaper interviews, which shocked me very much, at least what was transported. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Have you revised your prejudices?]] Maybe you didn't say that, I'd like to agree with you. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Your newspaper interview also allows for a different interpretation!]] Madam President, Tichy-Schreder! Yes, I am glad that you know me and that you therefore trust me better than what is in the newspapers. Minister! I'd like to give you the right, and I'm glad you said: Yes, we have largely delegated competences in the export industry to the European Union, and we must be aware of this. We also need to tell people and companies. And we can and should bring ourselves into European politics as an Austrian – and here you are certainly perfectly suited due to your experience and your position – and can thus also open up to Austrian entrepreneurs, as for all other Europeans, these new major markets accordingly. I'm glad you say that, and I think it's also the right direction. I would just like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, because these are long-term programmes that do not work next week, they do not work in the spring of 1997, but they can work in two years, in three years or perhaps only in five years when we do everything right. But until the first job in Austria or the first, let us say that large numbers of jobs in Austria are secured by additional export opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in China, which requires a multiannual programme. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not forget that, as before the EU vote in 1995, the euphoria and the expectation of our people and our entrepreneurs are not in place again. That's a long-term program. I believe you, Minister of State, that you are taking up a good idea with this venture fund, which is also promising. I would just like to draw your attention to this: They should also try to prevent what is being ignited here from being destroyed by a missing tax policy on the other hand. I have always seen it as one of the great reliefs in Austrian export promotion or as a merit of export promotion that we have been able to take export demands and other balance sheet measures into account in a particular way for export operations. I very much regret, Minister of State, that these possibilities would be severely restricted. They call it abuse, we believe that the possibility of abuse does not justify this measure, it is similar to the method of dispensing the child with the bath. There must be other ways of preventing abuse. I believe you, Minister of State Farnleitner, that you can take government intervention as an important topic and as an important export support not only seriously, but also successfully implement it. But I do not think you can create a so-called export trade promotion if I look at our educational landscape. I am very concerned about the subject of the University of Applied Sciences, and I must say one thing to you in this regard: It is a modern law, it is a great law that we have in Austria, only the implementation, ladies and gentlemen, is so miserable that one has to say, one can really spread ashes on the head here. For the most part, this great innovation is donated. I hope, Minister of State Farnleitner and Minister of State Climate, that you can still correct this. It is, among other things, a matter of tight budget resources. But if we are not prepared to take an aspect out of the huge topic of educational offensive or educational spectrum, if we are not able to provide export traders with additional qualifications, if we are not able to improve things, then I cannot share your optimism regarding export merchant promotion in particular. As far as the Eurofit programme is concerned, Mr Farnleitner, I must say that it is beautiful. They have so kindly presented this and have brought the example of a dark space of a Japanese group and said: We need innovation, we need liberalisation, we must not suffocate in regulations. I can tell you something: I built a large department store in Spittal an der Drau in 1978. The biggest problem, which resulted in a two-month delay in construction, was the question of exposure to the workplaces. Do you know how the problem was solved? – After three months of delay one has built windows, which has caused additional costs, then one has mounted black rolls that have also caused costs once more, and then one has pulled them down because the windows in this room were not necessary for operational reasons. They could not have been needed, the light would have stung the people into the eyes, they had not seen anything. That's how they did it back then. That was 1978. Federal Minister! Since then – not entirely since then, but for many years now – you have managed this place. Since then, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, you've been in this... [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This is the country's construction order!]] But, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, but that's not the construction order. I am sorry that this is not the country's construction regulations, but it is in the commercial procedure, which is enshrined in the workers' protection provision. The Federal Minister has also said that it is a question of worker protection. If there's a salesman working there, it needs so much percent daylight. That's it! And this is, I think, the same case you meant here. So we have the same experience, but I did it in 1978. They call a case of 1996, my case was 1978. In this period, however, ten years of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs are in ÖVP hand. And I have to say that. I would like you to succeed, but on the other hand, I must say, of course, that I also feel it is always a bit strange when you go from the ÖVP and say: We liberalize working time, shop opening time, we need to liberalize it, because it creates new jobs and so on, and from the left always comes the armored No. On the other hand, if the others say we're changing something in the trade order, then that's what happens. No from the ÖVP side. I mean, this was the only one who gave a pronouncing opinion. And we do not suspect in vain that the power of failure to get through with his ideas has led him to give you, Federal Minister Farnleitner, the place. Federal Minister! My colleague, Peter, will say something about tourism after the emergency. I would now like to refer to the issue of fear-saving, investment-optimism, gambling, i.e. this block that you mentioned at the end of your speech. I think it's kind of related. I don't know if it would be scientifically viable, but the longing of people on the one hand for the quick money – it's really a phenomenon of how much the correlation between economic distress or economic lack of perspective and gambling behavior is, that's a very interesting correlation that has always fascinated me – and the saving behaviour of people and the investment behaviour of entrepreneurs on the other side are related. But we could assume that you want to conform to this human pattern of behaviour. But Mr Vergestnich says: No, no, that must not be, remains in Austria – I wrote it down – Semperit should stay in Austria. Stays in Austria, does not go to Czechoslovakia. He still didn't understand that it means: Go to Austria or go to Czechoslovakia. That's the subject, he's always just saying half a sentence, he says: Stays in Austria and produces tires. Wonderful! In an international competition this is a matter of a few months, and then it says: Stays in Austria and goes in Austria pleading. To break up these rigidities, Mr Federal Minister, to put something into the discussion within your group and to create the conditions for us to make a reasonable economic policy, I would like to ask you to do so, and to do so you will get my supplies of strawberries, for which I promise you that I will also make an effort to see what you are doing and what you are doing from two sides, and not only from mine. On the other hand, I would ask you to pay more attention to the proposal and idea of the Liberals and the opposition in general than to just a piece of paper from the political opponent, which you put into the trash. In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7523	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Maderthaner. – Deputies! In nine minutes the urgent call is called, so you now have a speaking time of nine minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7545	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not too much time for my previous speakers to take advantage of their time. Mr Vergestnitsch is unfortunately not in the hall, but I still have to make a few remarks after he has found strong words against the Chamber of Commerce and against the employers. First of all, I would like to say something about apprenticeship training: We don't want an education, because you could send her to the technical school right away. We want the apprentices to learn something in practice. That's the reason! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the context of the older unemployed, I basically reject the generalized unqualified accusations that the old are being sent home by the entrepreneurs. I would like to say quite clearly in this House: This issue of older workers to send them home when they are no longer needed was only made courteous by the rehabilitation of the national workers. We should make this clear once and for all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I made the effort and checked how many older workers were sent home before these actions, almost none at all. It is only when this rehabilitation action of the national lights has been made courteous. That's the story! The laws have been introduced by your group, not by us. It has been favoured that older workers should be sent home. I would like to make that clear and clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the point!]] I would also like to say that the trade union has more responsibility than just demanding higher wages and shorter working hours. If I look forward to what is going on in Germany in the car industry, then you need not be surprised that the companies emigrate. In the previous year, the trade union demanded 6 per cent wage increase and a reduction in working time with full wage compensation. This burdenes the car industry with an additional 11 percent, and that's why you don't have to wonder if the companies are looking for other locations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to be very brief, as the time is unfortunately very short. We have heard the reports today, and we have also heard – thank God, I may say – the new Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. I think you could hear some of his expertise and expertise, as well as his common sense. I would like to thank him warmly for this, and I wish the new Minister all the best in his office. I think he can also work well with the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A realistic view is good for all of us. We don't want to say that everything is fine, everything will go well, but we don't just need to paint black because we still have very good conditions on and for ourselves that we can bring in. Ladies and gentlemen! According to OECD statistics, we are in fourth place with our gross domestic product and worldwide, also taking into account purchasing power parities, in seventh place. For a small country like Austria, this is an excellent place where we are located. We should use that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we have some advantages that we can bring. We can also expect good figures on the rate of inflation. We are at the forefront of all the others, and we are also much better than the OECD average. We still have good numbers of unemployed people, and it is also essential that we are in the lower range. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just because of early pensions, Mr President!]] This issue is certainly a matter for us, that is not a question at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to secure the future, however, we need optimism in all cases. However, we need these in principle. I'll tell you something. We know that some things need to be put in order and improved. We know that we are in the back of debureaucratisation, which is an essential point. We have a lot too high in pay, we know that too, and there we have to put on the lever. If we try to use the lever in the negative field, we will also be able to get even better than we are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me mention one more example because we are talking so much about the export offensive. Thank God, Minister Farnleitner has excellent international knowledge in this regard, because this is so important and essential right now. And I am convinced that he will bring in his expertise and expertise very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say one more thing: I have been in six countries for the last three months: the main trading partner in Germany, but also in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Bosnia, Tunisia and the last three days in Turkey, one of the most important trading partners. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Have flown many kilometers!]] That is right, but in the interests of the Austrian economy, Mr. Colleague, only so that you know it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What did I hear there? I can tell you one thing, Mr Colleague: In Turkey, the excellent preparation of the two foreign trade delegates in Ankara and Istanbul made it possible for more than 500 contacts between the companies and more than 16 government talks to be held in this short period. It was an excellent economic mission, which will also be implemented in orders. That is the essential thing, but one does not get the job put into the bag, one must also say, with Siemens signing a contract yesterday, which is not less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is export offensive in practice, and we will work on it and not let ourselves be hindered by unnecessary remarks you make about it. The quality of the Austrian economy is highly appreciated. In any country you can hear that you appreciate the quality of the products, the quality of the services and the reliability of the Austrians. This is essential, and with these conditions we will continue to develop the economy forcefully in the future with a positive mood. That's our job. I would ask you to help make a positive mood.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7678	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to ask for attention. It separates us for two minutes from the call for urgent request, I interrupt the sitting until then.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7699	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Harald Ofner and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on voter fraud against pensioners (854/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7739	We come to the urgent question that has been raised today and which has been settled at 4 p.m. A reading of the same is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7964	Mr Dr. Ofner spoke on the grounds of the urgent question. Its speaking time shall not exceed 40 minutes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e7985	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a letter in my hands that made history, election history in Austria. 7. December 1995, Dr. Franz Vrannitzky, Federal Chancellor: Dear Mr Soundso! Today, there is a beautiful barrage for those who enjoy their deserved retirement or are already looking forward to it. The ÖVP wanted to reduce existing pensions and increase the statutory retirement age by surprise, which I personally prevented – the sender – from doing so. To be able to access the pensions, ÖVP wanted new elections – only a week before Christmas! From many discussions with seniors, I know that these problems are a cause of great concern. People understand that reforms and savings are necessary, but they do not understand that they want to take away something they have worked hard in trusting in our state. That's why I'm saying: Pension reforms yes, but human and fair. The SPÖ wants to secure the pensions. So that I can achieve this goal, I'm looking for your confidence. - As far as the letter is concerned. I told my wife, pick him up. He is very skillfully written by the advertising agency that wrote under the name of the chancellor, and he should be taken as a model for similar election campaigns. I have prophesied that he would bring a percentage point plus the list of Social Democrats. It's probably the same thing. Then the SPÖ has a functional demonstration. Behind and on the side of the town hall, in front of an ÖVP-local, there has still been a "spontaneous" action in favour of the maintenance of pensions, as well as Quasi discussions with hostesses of the other now government party who wanted to serve the demonstrators a hot tea or sausage or anything there. One was quite a savior of pensioners and defenders of the interests of older people. The choice was over, the letter had also done its guilt, but the correspondence, though with other senders, has continued. An old man – he will be 90 this year; by chance he is my father, but many others can also be there that has happened – received a letter from the pension insurance institution of the employees in December 1995: ==References====External links== January 1996. Together with my mother, he has been assigned a net pension of 14 756.60 S – he has been informed about this amount. The next letter – exactly six months later also brought to the dispatch from the pension insurance institution of the employees – only showed more of a sum – again for both, for my father and for my mother – from 14 314 S. Again, the sums so that no error occurs: 14 756.60 S before and 14 314 S afterwards. These are at least around 442 s and 60 sizes less for an old, not particularly well-known couple – and all in the sign of securing the rights and satisfying the needs of older people. Federal Chancellor! I can be quite unemotional, for it has been a long time since you were asked how you would like to receive the very well-written letter of advertising from 7. On the other hand, on the other hand, which carries your fake signature and the sober letter of understanding of pension insurance institutions to pensioners, which in any case include losses of almost half a thousand from one month to the other. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He doesn't care! He doesn't want to hear that!]] Federal Chancellor! I do not assume that such steps can always be avoided, but against which I am opposed, it is first of all the old people who have been involved in a lot of their lives who are turning sand into their eyes, that they are weighed in safety, that they are doing everything they can to catch voices and maximize voting potential, and then after the election day everything is different! After the election day, the chancellor does not write: Dear Mr Soundso! I'm sorry. I was wrong. I couldn't keep what I promised. Please understand that I have to take 442 S away from you a month – two times 442 pp. No, the chancellor is in silence, in his place the pension insurance institution writes, and the income is accordingly reduced. On the other hand, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have something! I am in favour of honesty in politics, and I am in favour of proclaiming only what one can assume that one is able to keep it, and if one cannot keep it, then one must make that known to the recipients of his letters and not leave it to the social security institutions. [[Complaints with the liberals]] If I read today in the "Standard" and the "Kurier" as great headlines that the Metaller chief Nuremberger announced that the cash-rehabilitation package was – literally quoted – "extremely unsocial", I must say that he is at least right. I do not fully share his view of why it alone is unsocial. If he raises the accusation that billions of money has not been collected, he is right, that is regrettable; but whoever knows the practice of health insurance in the professional life as well as I know the practice of health insurance, he knows that it is not due to excessive consideration of the cash offices. The checkouts are killers in this sector. Everyone knows that, they drive without any grace – there you can represent the point of view, it is true; Puttinger nodds – the social security contributions. And if you're just making a muck, they're here with a bankruptcy application and they're going through it until the last one. So there is no doubt that the cash registers cannot be blamed for being too generous when the contributions are made. There may be cases where someone has understood how to deal politically with the cash registers and how to get support in this way – I don't know, I can't put it. But if someone doesn't pay for the cash registers and doesn't behave to do it, then he really doesn't have a big deal anymore. You have to assume that. But at least he comes to the right conclusion: The package, as the trade unions announce, is extremely unsocial. But it can't be all the cashing or non-cashing of the contributions. It can't be that one always says to save and in truth means that one wants to take more and save what the poor devils who are sick are supposed to get. So, ladies and gentlemen, the alleged social security savings package is not a savings package but a scrapping package. It's a scrapping package! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because saving means spending less on your own. Saving does not mean taking away the others more or reducing the demands of others. If the cash registers themselves announce that they would save 300 million schilling in any period of time, then they are, as I say, also toothless statements of intent, if not even less. This nebulous promise: We too will save!, which is very abstract, the very concrete handles in the pockets of the others are opposite. And there are the pensioners who are particularly deeply caught in the bag. All the pensioners! Only with them, ladies and gentlemen, will the health insurance contribution be increased by 0.25 percentage points, which is likely to happen. I can't understand. This cannot also be offset by the fact that pensioners do not have to pay the health insurance allowance to come back. Because what about the pensioners who are lucky not to need a health certificate? So where's the savings with them? It is not that one takes the view that all insured persons should pay more. No, only the pensioners are supposed to do it! That is incomprehensible, that is unfair, and I think that is unconstitutional, because it contradicts the principle of equality, and that is a scandal that the elderly will not be allowed to please. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen – I take again the letter of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany from 7th. December 1995 at hand – as this circumstance is to be reconciled with the passage that reads as follows: You – the recipient, an elderly person – have made your work from a poor post-war Austria a rich country, a safe, stable Austria that we can all be proud of. This country doesn't need any experiments. ==References== December you decide whether it will remain that way. I ask you again, Federal Chancellor, and I ask you to answer this as soberly as I question it: Is that really the fulfillment of this promise? Is it really the consequence of this call that one is now going and is going to pull more out of the pocket of the people of this elderly generation so directly addressed by you – a certain quota as the only one – than all the others who are insured? It can't really be that way, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, you have also – and I would like to point out this in particular – greatly suppressed if you or your advertising firm have only come to speak of the fact that the letter's address has made a wealthy country from a poor post-war Austria. That's just one side of the medal. The older generation that it is about has had to participate much more, has had to do much more than "only" the fact – "only" under quotation marks – of reconstruction. I should like to remind you of the terrible inter-war period, which only the elderly have personally experienced here in the house, of the inter-war period with civil war, with dictatorship, with unemployment and exclusion to an extent and with consequences which, fortunately, can no longer be imagined today. I recall the inter-war period, which in Vienna meant that for the poorest of the poor, the German army – at that time still with strained vehicles and with the trumpet – was on the road to collect worn clothes, which meant that every half hour a beggar came to the door, but not a laborer, but a man who explained: I'm ready to do everything, look for work, take on any work, have hunger, please help me!, people with all kinds of school degrees and more. And while at the door one beggar gave the other the ring into his hand, one has heard music from the yard every half an hour or every hour: Some individual persons or groups have played music and hoped to get big amounts thrown down. – This was the first terrible time the older people have experienced who must have endured. Then the war has come with misery and death, for very many with permanent invalidity, for almost all with captivity, often far beyond the duration of ten years. And then the post-war period came with hunger and distress and plague, to the extent that younger people are fortunately unable to imagine it anymore. No one can imagine what it means in a big city, if there is nothing to heat – I don't talk about food – no water, no gas, no electricity, no body burial, no waste disposal years when graveyards are laid in the parks as well as on cemeteries when on the public squares two meters high the anyway only scarcely occurring garbage – in Vienna until 1948, up to three years after the war – when all windows are broken and even in winter only with paper and plywood and similar, when finally – only for hours on a few days – the current comes, the water comes and the like comes. You can't imagine all of this at all, and you could tell for hours about how it was. But no one listens to the older people in these things, and perhaps it is good that the disciples do not want to know what can be done. If, therefore, the construction performance, which has been carried out and carried out under today's no longer imaginable conditions, with a humiliating stomach and with a deplorable tool, has been carried out and carried out, and with a spirit of departure, if it is only mentioned with the only sentence: "made from a poor post-war Austria a wealthy country", Mr. Federal Chancellor, then your advertisers are bad historians, bad time historians. You have made only a tiny section of the tragedy of the older generation the subject of your advertising broadcast. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've been thinking about what could be given to this older generation for an additional name. I would like to call them the "injured generation", and I believe that I am not far from the facts with this designation. This damaged generation is now particularly burdened by this package – but not only by this package. And why is that happening? I put it – and I am waiting for it to prove to me the opposite – that it is because it has no effective lobby. Everyone else understands how to make themselves felt accordingly. All the others have someone who rises for them to the barricades. All other age groups, professional groups have organisations that make themselves strong for them. They have media that accept theirs. – The poor old people have nothing! They're not always financially poor. Fortunately, you're not always sick. But their great number, their relatively increasing number, their moral strength, do not stand up to any corresponding political significance, because they do not understand to enforce themselves accordingly, and because they are not met by the other side. I see it as a task, in fact, from all of us, to give the elderly people, their great number, their heavy personal fate story, as well as importance in the Austrian political scene, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But how is all of this going on? Does it remain that they are now reduced by an additional percentage, namely 0.25 percentage points, from the title of health insurance rehabilitation? Is this a unique matter? Far from it! It has already been established that pension and pension adjustment should be suspended for 1997. That is to say, there will be a reduction of the de facto-pension, the de facto-reente. For if we do not adapt to a small inflation, as we have at present, then the actual purchasing power decreases, then is less in the bag. So 1997 will lead to a reduction in the income of pensioners. And how does it look next year, 1998? It has already been established that the adjustment will be lower than the inflation rate. This will mean a further reduction in the pension. If I consider what President Leutner announced yesterday or yesterday from the main association of social security companies, namely that no one should believe that what is coming is a fundamental reorganisation, at best for the year 1997, and then one must continue to break one's head – that is, a real hole-to-hole-to-tactic, which the important Mr Leutner admits openly – then I can imagine that in the foreseeable future there will no longer be an increase in real income for the elderly. This begins this year, this continues in 1997, which continues in 1998, and I am unfortunately already prophesying: It will continue to be that way. The pensioners will get really less than before. – And we will fight vigorously against it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what happens to you on the occasion? ==References====External links== December last year. And what's in there, among other things? "We will not allow existing pensions to be reduced." [[Movement with the liberals.]] In this connection, Mr Bundeskanzler, I should like to address you again. You write a beautiful letter, you have a beautiful letter written – doesn't matter! – and then the pension insurance institution writes to the elderly people about how much they really get less. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He has already fled!]] Then the Leutner says [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Read it again!]] We will not allow existing pensions to be reduced! Signature: Your Franz Vrannitzky. Now the health insurance contributions are increased by 0.25 percentage points. Now everything is getting less like my parents, specifically my father, who wrote PVAng. Now comes the suspension of the pension and pension adjustment for 1997. Now comes the regulation that the adjustment in 1998 must be lower than the inflation rate. – And Leutner says: All this is just a transition! All this will only be enough for 1997; then you will have to think of something new, more, more. That is, the material security of the elderly goes down the stream, ladies and gentlemen! And we can't let all of them like each other! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can deal with a few details: No longer account for school and study periods for the corresponding pension benefits, only too exorbitantly high post-purchasing amounts. – What does that mean in practice? This means that those who have had higher education have the disadvantage that they are missing the years now. They don't come to me to say: They also took advantage of more school benches. We want young people to learn something. We want them to be trained. We think something about it – even today I have heard it from several mouths – that the Austrians are great people who learn something and can therefore represent themselves accordingly. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] But that they are then punished by not getting the time during which they have learned something in all our interest on the pension, that is shortsighted, that is to reject and combat. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But not only the pensions should be reduced à la longue – one probably wants them to be swirled at a lower pan-European level – but the same is true of the care allowance. There is no valorization of the care allowance. That is, even the care money – it's all getting more expensive, and a certain amount of inflation is also to be considered – this fee for the poorest of the poor is actually reduced. And the pocket money is also reduced in case of home accommodation, equal to half, from 1 138 S to 569 S per month. Ladies and gentlemen! Paint yourself or look at what it means when an adult person, whether male or female, should come out at the nursing home for a month with a little over 500 s. He has to go to the hairdresser, he has to be treated. He may have to have foot care done because he can't cope with it himself. He'll need to buy newspapers, maybe once a book, maybe also a cosmetics, if it's just an extra skin cream or something. He may need an additional food component. He wants some nose, wants to drink something different, not just what comes from the big kitchen. He might want to give him a drink once he is given a hand or perhaps make a small gift from the family. 569 S are available for this! That's right, please, really a hog! There's nothing to give to the people at all, and I'm supposed to say, You don't need anything anymore, you're in the nursing home, we can save you all the time, no one cares for you anyway. – But to go here and say, 569 S is enough, that is cynical and a cock! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is similar with the withdrawal of the care allowance during hospital stay already on the second day. One who looks at this only superficially could take the view: Well, if he's no longer at home, but at the hospital, he doesn't need a care allowance anyway. However, it overlooks the fact that there are obligations that must continue to run, and that there are also obligations that require a certain period of time in order for them to be properly terminated. What about rental conditions for the apartment in which the person in question lives? He can't and should not give up the apartment from the second day of his hospital stay! What about any service conditions in the care sector? You can't end them from one hour to the other. That is to say, one deliberately assumes that in this way the caregivers are additionally taxed financially. I am lacking, honestly, the understanding of the ignorance of these circumstances – that is the one possibility – or the conscious disadvantage of these poor devils, ladies and gentlemen. You can't do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's going to be particularly annoyed with an apparent detail: Removal of allowances for special expenditure and advertising costs until the next year's compensation. In other words, the pensioner cannot claim the advertising costs, the special expenditure with corresponding representations, each distributed over the months, no: only with the next annual compensation. This becomes, the older the person is, the more a race with time. As an opposition politician, too, I would not like to say that on the occasion of the occasion the following account is taken: After one or the other, this may not happen at all. I don't want to put that under control. But it should have been taken into account that older people simply do not have the time that we still spend on younger ones. They don't have them psychologically, and they don't have them physically either. And to comfort that something happens in a year, that is, please, inhuman, and that testifies to incomprehensibility. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if I read – once again – in the famous letter of the Federal Chancellor or an advertising agency with his facsimile signature: Everything should be humane and just, that is why I say – doubly; I, the Federal Chancellor –: Pension reforms yes, but human and just, then I already have the question: What of what I have listed in the last 25 minutes, ladies and gentlemen, can one really and good conscience be described as human and righteous? – I do not claim anything of those things I have done to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At best, those responsible have acted thoughtlessly; I am rather afraid that they have acted without regard to those concerned. There is a very important witness to the policy of Chancellor Vrannitzky in these things, and that is the mayor of Vienna Häupl. He is the most important witness against this kind of "social policy" – under quotations. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A chandelier!]] A chandelier! Right! You've caught it, he's a witness against these things. I do not want to miss out on the reasons for which he has decided to apply the Leniency Notice. But it's going to have something on it with the chandeliers. He wants to come out of responsibility himself, because in autumn there are elections, and that is an argument for a mayor of Vienna to deny everything and to deny it all. And he's our witness against his own party officer and chancellor. It's just funny: Today, at 3 p.m. at the Vienna City Hall, a Landtagssession has begun on this very subject. There has not been a single social democracy, not a single one! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here!]] Not even the competent Social City Councillor! She sat back and shrouded in silence. There, the liberals have shown how unfair, how illogical, how inconsistent and how destructive to the elderly is this supposed social rehabilitation package. The liberals have shown this! The ÖVP has walled in favour of the Social Democrats, who have completely shrouded themselves in silence. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's always the way it is!]] Not a single word message! And, as has been said, the concubine chief is likely to last until the election day, then he will forget that he has been a concubine. If I observe that it is alleged that it is also part of the policy not to allow any restraint that has also been entered the election campaign with this keyword, I ask: What else is it like to be self-retained if, in the future, health and rehabilitation stays will have to be paid between 70 S and 180 S – not very little – per day? But I hear from other sources that there are not a few areas – especially in the public service – where people who move on the border to be a performance athlete, who regularly make their runs, their tours and the like, automatically take a course once a year. I don't mind if they travel on a spa – on their vacation, at their own expense, for my part, with a grant. But if it is natural that someone not only consumes his vacation in all the administrative areas, but then also a spa stay at regiments' expense – when one hears that there are dead seasons in which the otherwise semi-empty spas have to be filled up accordingly – then I wonder if there is not a potential for savings that grows far beyond what one sends out of the pocket to the poor old devils, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, the policy of this federal government is not only directly affecting the elderly people with all these measures, but also indirectly they are suffering hard – and this will become more and more dramatic – under the further disadvantage of the families by the policies of this government. It's just not true about the generation contract anymore. The times are over when one has assumed that the large sum of the younger working people makes sure that the pension fund is ringing for the elderly who have already retired. That's just not right anymore, because there's not enough children. There are not enough children born, there are not enough children raised, there will be too few people in the future to be able to raise pensions for older people. That's his reason. It is not true that the Austrians suddenly lost their desire to start a family. But everyone who listens to the people knows what it is about. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Migrants!]] Young people want to have children, but they realize that one of the two parents must stay at home at the latest with the second or the third child. They buy expensive apartments because they can't get others. Then one must work practically for the monthly benefits for the dwelling or for the high rent, and if there are young people in the family when one, two children come, he must stay at home, and the apartment is gone. This is the sober truth. Check with the citizens outside. This is not a party-related problem, which is quite the same with red, yellow, green, black and blue. The young people complain that the possibility of creating families has simply been taken. I therefore believe that if we want to solve the problem of pension security seriously, if we want to give the old people the assurance that, even if they are retired, they can really be taken care of, we must ensure that families are able to have children without being immediately pushed below the poverty line, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That means money in these cases. The family allowance currently available has the character of a kind of drinking allowance. It can cover various expenses, but it cannot really cover the costs that children cause. Today, people are able to see themselves either without children in their lives, or they fall below the poverty line. What we want – and there is a mature family concept – is that in the form of the family check maybe first of all for the first three children 4,000 S or even better 5 000 S per child go over the table of the house. What would that do? If someone who has two children had 8,000 S or 10,000 S, if the one who has three children had 12,000 S or 15,000 S as a bill of the corresponding fees, then one of the two parents could stay at home without having to fear the worst. Often it's also the father now, that wouldn't always be the mother. If he wants to go to work, he can do it if he does not want to, then what he would otherwise earn could be paid off. What else would that mean? This would mean that there would be a considerable relief in the sector of childcare facilities, the pedigrees, the pedigrees, because parents would not be forced to try to really have someone who looks after them every minute. We know that there are not enough cribs and too few kindergartens anyway and that everything in this context costs billions. It would also lead to a noticeable discharge of the labour market. Because if people also had the opportunity to raise children, get the amounts and not have to work for them, this would result in many ten thousand parents not being forced to look for a new job, but to stay at home using the amounts they receive through the family check and to devote themselves to child rearing – in a gender neutral way, I emphasize it again. So there would be a relief from childcare facilities, a relief from the labour market, and – that is particularly important – the age pyramid could be repaired. That is to say, it would be an approach to the fact that there is again a viable age pyramid that the young can regain the older in the long run. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Something's wrong!]] What we're experiencing now is a hole-to-hole policy. We have heard, from a professional point of view, that it will at best be held in 1997. We do not want to take away anything from the elderly people – as the chancellor has promised – that they should not be facilitated again, contrary to the chancellor's promise at every corner, by financial matters: as more contributions, less achievements and more. And we want a general structural improvement in the age structure of the people in Austria. They should be given the opportunity to be active or to devote themselves to child rearing, whether father or mother – the financial possibility – and thus significantly relieve the labour market. It should be tried to make arrangements for the future, to make the structures in order and not to put in place hole-to-hole actions, of which even those concerned say they will not be viable for the long term. If I get a letter from a chancellor that carries his signature in facsimile, I assume that he thought of something in the design of the letter or at least at the time when he was presented to him by his advertising agency and to which he was told that his signature was used in facsimile. If a chancellor writes a letter to hundreds of thousands of people, I hope that he will actually comply with what stands inside. And then let the question be allowed – this we address to the chancellor today – as it has been possible to do, and what he says about the promise to preserve the old people, and that this now looks quite different, that they should pay more and get less than ever before.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8246	I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8267	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are quite a number of views to be expressed as an interviewer on urgent questions. Anyway, there's nothing bad that wouldn't have his good. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Chancellor's Letters!]] For now, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, Mr Dr. Ofner, you will have to listen to me when I tell you how things really are in Austria, what I actually said and promised in the election campaign, what I have already realized and, above all, what those who are doing in Austria for the rehabilitation of pensions and for the protection of the health system. First: I have never been silent in the last election campaign, but, in contrast, I would like to stress that we must save in the future if we want to preserve our social state. I absolutely want to do so, because for me, I say quite honestly to you, a modern society without solidarity is not imaginable, just as you have described it now. I confess to it and take active action to ensure that the strong are solid with the weak, the boys with the old and the healthy with the sick. This is my personal credo, but it is also the credo of my party and, as I hope, the credo of many other ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, In the same breath, I have also known – in contrast to the People's Party, at least in the election campaign – a fair saving. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] For me, that means that those who are better in society contribute more to saving than those who are not doing so well. Thirdly, As I understand it, saving means, above all, slowing the increase in benefits in such a way that the system can be secured. For me, just saving also means paying more attention to the fact that only those benefits they actually need and deserve. Fourth: For pensioners, it means doing everything to maintain and improve their standard of living. This means that there must be no reduction in pensions in the form of a reduction in pensions. But that also means that I want to secure the purchasing power of pensions by making a policy in which I keep inflation low, because such a policy also contributes to ensuring pensions. As we know from all examples of history and from other countries, a high rate of inflation is particularly true for those people who are pensioners. In the same way, in the fifth place, in health, I have become a policy that continues to guarantee the exemplary performance of our world-renowned health system and, at the same time, that this high standard will be financially secure for the future. To this end, we have started the hospital reform, and we decided to reform our health insurance two days ago in the Federal Government. This reform, through a legal provision, ensures that the reform in the health insurance companies is safely addressed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The reform ensures!]] It also ensures that the vast majority of the necessary savings are made by the reduction of expenditure, namely two thirds, and it also ensures that the necessary revenue increases are very socially fair. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, there is not in any way the electoral fraud claimed by the liberals against pensioners and the sick. Dr. Ofner! I'm very sure you didn't choose me at all. That is why you only have a very small legitimacy to act here as a censor of my electoral program. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Ofner and Mag. Stadler.]] It would be fraud, however, if we closed our eyes to the necessary reforms in pension and health care. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why don't you cut your own pension? Why don't you give up on your Landesbank-Pension?]] – You have said this nonsense a few times in the last few days. I am active in working and do not involve a pension at all, so I cannot give up any. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: A pension millionaire you are!]] What did you say now? [[Abg. May. Stadler: A pension millionaire you are!]] – How is someone a pension millionaire who does not receive a pension? – [[Abg. May. Stadler: For your three years in the Landesbank! 16 months' pay!]] I made a mistake letting myself in with you. It's pointless. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dr. Ofner! I address my words to you, as you have tried to argue and discuss here in a serious way. – It would be fraud if we did not take the necessary measures today to secure the system tomorrow. But since all of this is not what you have said, but just as I have described it, there is not fraud, but responsible political action. We shall certainly not be held back by the absence of the liberals in these sensitive areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is how I find myself in the pleasant situation, supported by you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, here again to maintain the central rates of my election movement towards pensions and health reform. "Pension reform yes, but human and just." "We will not allow existing pensions to be reduced." - They haven't been shortened. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't know what you're talking about!]] "We will not allow more socially weak to afford a doctor." "I will ensure that there is a fair health reform." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has an exceptionally high and high standard of health care in international comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are not even informed how the pensioners are doing!]] The aim of all reforms – I have taken part in the election campaign for just reforms – is to ensure the quality of medical care and medical progress for all people in our country. We must face this task because life expectancy is increasing and medical and technical progress is rapid. There is no doubt that it is an ambitious and great task. The reform of hospitals and health insurance achieves this ambitious goal. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Häupl sees this differently!]] The agreement on the health insurance reform is a political compromise, and I add that from a social democratic point of view, it is an acceptable and sustainable compromise, for two reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I heard something different from the trade unions today!]] First: I fought the election campaign with the general motto "Save through Reforms". I have promised to ensure that there is a fair health reform. – This promise is fulfilled. With the agreement on the financing of hospitals, the performance-oriented financing system – i.e. a billing after benefits and not as previously after days – and a cost cover – is introduced, i.e. a defined clear limitation of expenditure. These are groundbreaking reforms, whose implementation had been discussed for decades and which we were able to convince the financial compensation partners in March 1996. Secondly, I have promised to prevent any more socially weak from being able to afford a doctor. Therefore, it is not possible to introduce a percentage of self-retaining during medical visits and hospital stays, in which more socially weak – would be introduced – only hope that they will be able to afford their percentage of good and expensive medical care as well. No restraint is introduced which causes uncertainty in the individual before going to the doctor or hospital, whether he has to pay something afterwards or how much. On the other hand, the compromise on rehabilitation of health insurance provides for a health certificate fee of 50 s per quarter. This is contrary to percentage retention regardless of the number of medical visits and the cost of treatment. This health certificate fee shall be withdrawn only if a health certificate is actually used. Then it is 16 S and 60 sizes per month, but also only for those groups that are not excluded anyway. I'll hold on to this. This health certificate fee does not apply to children, it does not apply to pensioners, it also does not apply to socially weak persons who are also exempt from the prescription fee. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who else does it apply to?]] The health certificate fee will secure the health insurance income of 500 million schilling. If we had yielded to the self-retaining demands of the last election campaign, we would have had to recover more from the insured 2 billion schillings. I would add that I am not a particular supporter of this fee, but it was the political price to find a compromise that ensures the financing of the system and the medical care for all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Next!]] I was and am not prepared, despite this political price, to put the negotiators in the back by rejecting this solution. Third point: The reform package has its focus clearly on the expenditure side. The total need for rehabilitation covers two thirds of expenditure, and this in a socially acceptable way. Thus, in 1997 alone, 2.6 billion schillings are saved for doctors, medications and cures. In 1997, a further 380 million schillings were saved by cuts in the administrative burden. This is implemented by means of a stopover and by changes in the law of the service and by the application of essential measures of the savings package also in social security schemes. A further 300 million Schillings will be achieved through savings in travel costs and the cost of non-contracting doctors alone in 1997. In addition, a controlling body is established by law. The Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs are responsible for monitoring the structural reform. The main association is obliged to cover costs and has to try to ensure that the increase in expenditure is below the increase in revenue. I would like to mention these savings, among other things, because it is clear that expenditure-side measures and structural reforms are to a considerable extent implemented. Fourth: The range of services offered by our health system is excellent in international comparison. These benefits remain for all Austrians. In the area of sickness benefit, there is even a clear improvement in performance: 52 weeks of sickness benefit are fixed in the law. So far, the practice has been, but not legal. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 78 weeks we have!]] The questioners seem to be interested in a serious discussion on social policy, therefore still a fundamental word on social tolerance and social balance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Up to now, 78 weeks have been sick! You just don't know that!]] If I am faced with the alternative of either setting up the sickness allowance for cancers and victims of serious road accidents after half a year and replacing it with the social assistance, which is partly less than 5 000 S per month, or introducing a health certificate fee with far-reaching exceptions, I am aware of what I have to decide against – namely, that cancer and accident victims, Mr. Dr. Ofner, after half a year of their wealth – whether it be a car or a television device – before they get any social assistance. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Mr. Federal Chancellor! There are other possibilities too!]] This may not be wise politically in the sense of maximisation, for example, because in Vienna, for example, it concerns only 4,000 people. As a Social Democratic, I fully support the participation of these 4,000 people in the interests of social justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fifth, you open a bottle Claims such as the non-payment of the first three days of sick pay came from the ranks of the High House, which are extremely worrying in social policy and which would have a significant financial disadvantage for the sick. They do not come into question and are therefore not part of this package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If you say the head, too, because he doesn't know!]] Sixteenths: Health insurance contributions for pensioners are increased by 0.25 percentage points to 3.75%. This means that pensioners, who usually use medical services more than others, continue to pay a lower contribution than workers. Dr. Ofner! If you tell me where you see the constitutional scandal, I am very willing to discuss with you once. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A play against each other!]] This extremely moderate increase in contributions, which is much more focused on solidarity than on the principle of using them, is underlined by the fact that pensioners are also exempt from the health certificate fee. The questioners mention my letter of 7. December 1995, with which I personally addressed pensioners. I am grateful for this, Dr. Ofner – then you believe the wrong thing! . because I promised not to allow existing pensions to be reduced and the statutory retirement age to be increased by accident. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I don't believe that!]] I made both promises! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The statutory retirement age for long insurance periods of 55 years for women and 60 years for men remains unchanged. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But nothing else!]] Especially through labour market policies, efforts are being made to raise the actual retirement age – but you will have nothing. I found in December 1995 that safe jobs are the best way to ensure that pensions are guaranteed. This statement applies, and efforts to create jobs are the main objective of all the Austrian Federal Government's economic policy activities at home as well as at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have promised to ensure that there is a fair pension reform. The Structural Adjustment Act provides that our pension system will be safeguarded by strengthening the principle of insurance. More justice is also achieved by taking greater account of the number of months of insurance or contribution. So you see, deputies! ==References== It is a matter of course, of course, of course, of course, of the negotiating position of the Social Democrats, and you will also see that this negotiating position of the Social Democrats has drawn the conclusion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no reduction in existing pensions, there is no abrupt change in the retirement age, and there are manageable transitional arrangements to ensure that the personal life planning of the individual is taken into account. I now come to answer your questions. To A 1 to A 5: Following in-depth consultations by the relevant ministers with the stakeholders, budgetary consolidation measures were taken to ensure that the high standard of the Austrian social system is maintained and ensured. For pensioners, there is no deterioration in their financial situation under pension law. The suspension of the adjustment for 1997 in the context of fiscal consolidation is a measure by which no one is taken away. This measure, however, was particularly taken into account that socially weak groups receive an increase in income by granting a single payment of 3 000 S for married persons and 2 000 S for single persons. In 1996, pensions were increased by 2.3 percent. The inflation rate is expected to be 1.7 percent, according to the current forecasts. Since 1990, the pensioners have been able to record a real increase in purchasing power of more than 3%. In this period, compensation recipients had an increase in purchasing power of even 22 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of the reform measures now envisaged in health insurance is to ensure the high quality of health care and health care, and to continue to provide the medical progress in the field of diagnosis and therapy to all – i.e. also to the socially weak. This is particularly important for pensioners who are particularly affected by a fall in the quality of health care. The disparity of expenditure and income in health insurance in recent years is prevented, as mentioned, by extensive cost-reduction measures in the future. To the extent that financial resources were still available to cover the remaining deficit, measures on the part of the revenue will ensure financing. Consideration was given to the different situations of pensioners and active insured persons. The significant increase in the contribution of pensioners is therefore justified because they have a lower contribution rate to the asset insurers while at the same time having a high share of benefits. However, pensioners are excluded from the health certificate fee, thus ensuring a fair distribution of the burden between the insured and pensioners. All measures adopted in the context of fiscal consolidation, except for the suspension of the 1997 pension adjustment, concern persons not already in retirement, but future pension entitlements. It should be stressed again that there has not been an increase in the statutory retirement age, but that a number of social measures with transitional periods lead to the actual retirement age being introduced to the legal person. The principle has been taken into account that insurance periods for which contributions have been made will in future be more taken into account than non-contributory periods. In order to be able to retire at the age of 60 or 55 years, 35 real contribution years or 37,5 years after a certain transitional period are also sufficient. The change in the taking into account of schooling and high schooling was made mainly in the light of a more just balance between academics and non-academics. Furthermore, they had to be purchased for the power level so far. I therefore note that pensioners' incomes are not reduced either by the measures already taken or by the future in pension law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Questions B 1 to B 3: First of all, I would like to point out the introduction: Medical progress offers ever better but also more complex diagnostic and therapy options. Moreover, life expectancy is glad to increase. However, both facts also mean cost increases for social health insurance. Austria has an exceptionally high standard of health care in international comparison. The central role in the Austrian health system is legal health insurance. Nearly the entire residential population – around 99 percent – is involved either as an insured person or as a family in its extensive protection. Furthermore, the wide range of services provided by statutory health insurance offers full medical care, which in the past has always been adapted to the latest medical progress. Despite the many extensions of the services offered and the additional tasks of health insurance providers, the contribution rates have been significantly low in international comparison. These reform measures in social health insurance will ensure the high quality of health care and health care, and will continue to make available to all, including the socially weak, the medical progress that exists in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. Prevention is of particular importance. As I have already explained to you in the introduction, fixed fees, whose amount is independent of the benefit used, are to be distinguished from percentages of self retention. On questions B 4 and B 5, I refer to my answer to A 1 to A 5. To B 6 to B 14: I would point out, first of all, that the conclusion of contracts is not the competence of the Federal Chancellor, but rather the responsibility of social security. On the basis of the resolution adopted by Parliament on 13 June. In June 1996, the Minister of Social Affairs will review the awarding practice of social security and until 31 June 1996. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. At the same time, the Court of Auditors will carry out a review. I therefore note that it is up to the self-management of social security to use all the available resources to reduce costs. The legal definition of an additional controlling facility of the main association in the 53. ASVG-Novelle must ensure the achievement of the objectives. Furthermore, 97 percent of social health insurance benefits do not require prior authorisation. In the area of quality assurance and the cost-effective use of particularly expensive treatments, social security currently provides for prior medical approvals. I am pleased to inform you once again, Mr Deputies, of the legislative measures. This is now 53. ASVG-Novelle does not contain a reduction in the statutory health care, but rather an extension of 26 to 52 weeks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From 78 to 52 it is shortened!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He doesn't know himself! Unfortunately, he doesn't know!]] Furthermore, the possibility for the individual cash registers is open to extend the duration of the sickness benefit to 78 weeks in their statutes. Two thirds of the deficit initially expected is covered by cost reductions, through measures in the field of hospitalization, the pharmaceutical industry, the medical sector and other contracting parties, and by measures to reduce administrative costs in social security. In particular, I would like to stress the agreement concluded with the federal states on the financing of hospitals, which guarantees the cost of social security in the amount of revenue increase by the year 2000 and includes a performance-oriented financing system. B 15: The introduction of an insurance obligation instead of existing compulsory insurance therefore does not prevent me, because this would disadvantage the chronically ill, children's-rich families and the older generation in the sense of private-economic usual risk collection and risk-oriented award-making. The performance of the tasks of social health insurance by private insurance would, according to the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, lead to an increase in the cost of the system by 30 billion schilling. To B 16, 17 and 18 I refer to the answer to questions B 6 to B 14. B 19 and B 20: The company Hausemann has already found in its organisational analysis that the number of insurance companies or the aggregation of insurance companies is not an adequate organisational response to improving economic efficiency. The regional and professional system provides the highest possible level of insurance. In the administrative field, all synergies should be used. This is done, for example, by increased coordination in the field of computerisation and joint use of the external network. By reducing administrative costs, through equivalent savings, such as in the federal government – zero-spray round, recording stop, overtime cuts – more than 300 million schillings are saved in 1997. As of 1998, another 200 million schillings of savings in this area are planned. Furthermore, the continuation of the rationalisations following the Hausemann study under new consultation of external consultants is planned. To B 21 and B 22: It's telling me: A medically acceptable relaxation of the prescription requirement is possible and useful on the basis of the legal situation. In addition to B 22: Mrs Krammer, Mr President, I have been told that in 1995 a reduction in the wholesale range for medicinal products by an average of 3 per cent was ordered by regulation under the Price Act. For this purpose, the Arzneitax Regulation, which lays down the pharmacies prices, has been amended. These price reductions have also affected recipe-free medicinal products. This has led to a cost reduction of around 500 million schillings for social health insurance. At the time, the Price Commission has established that it will be able to observe exactly how these spin-offs will affect the operating results of wholesalers and pharmacies. For the further negotiations which have already been started, the 1995 balance sheets and the operating balance sheets and turnover statistics for the 1. Half-year 1996 is the main basis. B 23: Calculations by the main association on the train of the Social Health Insurance Financial Consolidation Package have shown that the now two thirds of the expenditure side and one third of the revenue package will ensure the financing of health insurance for the next four years. These calculations are based on the current economic forecast of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research. Mr Dr. Ofner! You have made a look back at the post-war period in your request and have pointed out the time when in Austria, both in the cities and in the countryside, without water, without gas, without windows, it was necessary to live with graveyards in parks et cetera. I understand you very well, because as a child, I had to live as a student under these circumstances at that time. I understand that you are committed to this generation, just as I do, but you have meant that here is a broken generation without lobby. I disagree with you. Fortunately, there have been many pioneering achievements of my party and other groups that have contributed to the fact that this generation has not been hurt and that it does not exist without representation and without lobby. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I said my party and other groups. The fact that your political group was involved cannot even claim you, Dr. Ofner. However, this is the debate on which we are dealing, and I quote here from some press releases from which the basic attitude is recognizable. This is not addressed to your person, but I would like to remind you of the environment in which you are in which society. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read your pension contract before us!]] "Rodation authorization in the social state." [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen! Listen!]] "We need a redundancie in the thickness of the social and chamber state." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read your pension contract to us!]] – For example, those who work for the injured generation have not used the word "rodification" for example. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Privilegian Rider!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Check with your brother-in-law! Check with your brother-in-law at the ARGE Orthopedics! Then you'll know what we mean! We'll prove that to you today!]] Do you want to know something about people who are not dependent on the social network? – I read something to you: "It is pleasant for me to know that this good (beartal, estimated value around 100 million schilling) is available as a safety net." - Haider, "Wochenpresse", 2. ==References== – Of course, the broken generation does not give these people any information. That's quite clear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But driving in a Porsche!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You can ride my Porsche once!]] Would you like to hear about your position on senior care? – I read something to you: Under the heading "Do not uncontrolled each application" is here – I quote –: "Imagine we have a rat plague in Salzburg and the official posts write out 5 to 10 s per rat tail. Some will honestly try to get the rats done, others will breed rats to earn money." – FPÖ politician Fast, "Salzburger Nachrichten", 20. August 1994. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (Applause) That's right!]] Mr. Dr. Ofner, I regret that you are in society – for the injured generation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8846	We are now going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to this: Speech times are uniformly limited by 15 minutes. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. I'll give it to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e8902	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr. Bundeskanzler. I believe that you have started here today from the government bank with contributions that are normally delivered here by the speaker's desk and closed with polemics because, obviously, because of the events in the city hall in Vienna, you are no longer certain that you will still defend someone from your group here with your load package in the field of health. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is to be seen as a unique evidence of poverty for social democracy in Austria that no social democracy has taken the floor in the Vienna City Hall on a social issue. I think that says more and more about the state of social democracy and the consent of your comrades to your actions over the last few days and months. In addition, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! I think you have never been so far away from the reality of the life of the simple Austrian as in your remarks here today in response to Mr Ofner's urgent question. They have never been so far away and never so lonely in the cloud-cuckoo home of a banker who has long been out of social democracy. I'm telling you, you're not a multi-pensionist yet, but They are a cumulated finish hunter, and these are in the discussion which is now being held about waste and protected areas and about those areas that are of interest to Mr and Mrs Österreicher, but also very interesting aspects. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is simply not to be explained to the simple Austrian from the Government Bank that it is now starting at 10 000 p.m. Wage has more to pay per month 16,25 S if he gets sick, and he does not understand that at the same time you also sell it as a principle of solidarity between the healthy and the sick. I and my group have always assumed that someone will get a health certificate if he is ill and if he needs medical help, and not if he wants to bribe his doctor, so that if he becomes ill in ten years or in 40 years' time, he will also be provided. Therefore, the 50 S that are lifted are de-olidarization towards those who are actually sick, and the sick who already need benefits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The general public places, Mr Bundeskanzler, that people have grown older and that the costs of old age are now falling in special form and pensioners are making special use of the health system, you could have saved, because everyone, including those who have introduced social security schemes at the time, knew that with increasing life expectancy, with rising age pyramids, with the benefits that arise at work after 35, 37 and 40 years of work, also more and more diseases occur. There is no serious social and health policy that would not have expected you to see the focus on prevention medicine and the higher age pyramid merely shifting overall health costs. What makes it sense, then, for someone who tries to calculate the group of pensioners and then, if they get sick, to separate, separate and additionally charge unolidarically the costs to be expected? I believe, Federal Chancellor, that today you have actually lived up to the de-olidarisation policy of a social democrat, pre-existed and represented how it was actually not more beautiful and transparent to a grown social democrat in Austria. You are far away from the roots, where you may once find yourself in the post-war 16th century. ==References====External links== You, Mr Bundeskanzler, sit down on the government bank and obviously listen to consultants who are no longer telling you the truth of how simple people outside actually are, those who are waiting for transplants and are not lucky to be transplanted twice, because the first transplant is no longer timely. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have clearly forgotten, Federal Chancellor, how those who are actually dependent on sickness benefits in a state in which, at the end of 1995 and at the beginning of 1996, every single health insurance scheme has voluntarily paid every one and a half years of sickness benefit, and in which you celebrate today as a triumph that you increase the legal framework of entitlement to one year, but at the same time you accept that certain health insurance institutions, although only 4,000 people, as you have rightly said, will not pay the sickness allowance for 4,000 more months, as they have voluntarily paid until now. To celebrate this as triumph and progress, Mr President, I think that I am in favour of the 4,000 who will be affected in the future of having to sell their television six months earlier, as you have dragged Mr Ofner to sell their car and then to be paid by the country in social assistance, for cynical. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not the solidarity with the 4,000, Mr Chancellor, as I wanted it to be, but it is that defence policy that does not want to admit that it promised more than it could have kept after the election. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Golf course mentality!]] I am eager to see how far the Austrian People's Party will be pleased to receive the non-social part from the Federal Chancellor as a coalition partner. But we will no doubt be informed by colleagues Feurstein and the others here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He'll get serial ear figs!]] But one thing, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should you know: that the system of current performance-oriented accounting in the hospitals of some countries is not being developed in order to preserve those hospitals that are patient-oriented, popular with patients who have a high level of demand and who are even more profitable with the same quality, and that your social-democratic ex-ministers in particular also prefers and is the first to block such facilities. This cannot be the saving family, if you close those who are popular, those who are cheaper at the same rate, and those who are expensive, those who are not asked for because they are anonymous, large-scale, technically centered, not patient-oriented, to keep alive and continue to accumulate. There has been something wrong with the reform, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I would urge you to speak to Mrs Federal Minister Krammer about this. Or how else do you explain that over a week in Styria, for example, electoral doctors are being used more than 40 percent less that the number of their patients has fallen? Are the electoral doctors in the future those who can take more care of the patients than they are for the ministers, or can those who need the full cost of the local health insurance fund no longer afford the electorate, the one who does not seem oriented but works with patients? Is it really solidarity with the "small" people that now the electoral doctors are being pushed out of the system, those who can often offer a much more humane time management with the same quality? I do not believe, Chancellor, that this is the final conclusion of wisdom. Since the former Minister of Social Affairs and Health Lösnak was present in the hall before, I might want to discuss one thing from our point of view, which I also discussed in 1987, 1988 and 1989 – at the time as a health speaker. Federal Chancellor! They are proud that some 500 million schilling can be saved during the negotiations with the corresponding pharmaceutical companies. That's good. If the number keeps that, I'll be glad. But I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, for ten years now, your health and social ministers in this Republic of Austria have been calling for a significant number of studies to be carried out for new drugs. I have already mentioned, on behalf of the Liberals, 1986, 1987 and 1988, that it would be useful in these studies to ask for a comparison with the low-cost, long-standing preparations on the market. It's always gone. This has never been voted by the legislator here in this House, and this is what the ÖVP and the Social Democrats are responsible for. What did that lead to? – Cheap, proven preparations have declined in demand. Many young physicians have only learned the studies on the new, innovative and expensive preparations and their application by the pharmaceutical industry, while the use of the old, proven preparations that were inexpensive has declined and have then disappeared from the market with the approval of the social insurance companies. There, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, billions would be saved by a legislative step alone, which will require studies in the future in the event of a re-admission of medicines, in which not only the new preparation will be presented, but its advantages will also be compared to those of the cheapest products on the market, which have been successfully used for years or in part for decades. . I would recommend that once again these suggestions of the liberals, as could be saved, come close to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! In the spring of this year there was also a proposal from the Carinthian Chamber of Physicians, which I consider to be very important. The Kärntner Medical Chamber has proposed, in order not to require the unsavory 50 s of the patients, to take a logical step, namely, in all voluntary occupational pensions in the protected area – in German: in chambers, social insurance institutions and the like – to cash the health insurance contribution to the maximum basis of assessment in the same amount as in all other ASVG-pensionists. The realization of this proposal for the protected area of the Carinthian Chamber of Physicians would have been – you hear and marvel! – about 400 million schillings were made up. The 50 s that you will be disbursing from every sick person, Mr. Federal Chancellor, will give you the same sum. In view of the solidarity you have expressed here today, I ask you: Why didn't you involve a health insurance contribution to the protected area up to the maximum basis of assessment – like any other ASVG-pensionists – and save it on the other side, from each of them when he becomes ill? I ask you: How serious are you with your ideas of solidarity? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! If you think that you have slowed down the move to the early retirement, and if you think that the number of retirements has not deteriorated, then Mr and Mrs Österreicher have a much better feeling for the facts that have taken place here in Austria. The figures: 1990: 796 000 old-age pensions, 115 000 of them early; 1994: a total of 854,000 old-age pensions, of which 127 000 are early; May 1995: a total of 888 000 old-age pensions, 152 000 or 17.1 percent of them early retirement pensions and May 1996: 927 925 pensioners, 179 859 of them early retirement pensioners, are 19.4 percent. – Nothing has slowed you down, Federal Chancellor! And if you say that safe jobs are the safest for the social system, I think you are there too. This year we have a net reduction of 37 000 jobs. Where has the increased security that you promised in your government statement remained here? All these are numbers from your office, Mr. Federal Chancellor, from your ministries, your official numbers, no free numbers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite everyone to join this motion for a resolution, and I can assure you, Federal Chancellor: As long as we are elected by the Austrians, Mr. Dr. Ofner and I have the legitimacy to criticize you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9071	I should like to ask for motions for resolutions to be read as far as possible within the speaking time. – This is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mrs Hostasch. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9096	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dr. Haupt, please do not take it badly, Mr Magister, Mr Deputies, do not blame me, but I do not take this plea for solidarity. [[Abg. May. Main: Still Magister!]] [[Abg. May. Main: Now it fits again!]] I claim that it is not meant honestly, because your party's policy is anything but solidarity. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It de-olidarizes and dissociates, therefore a clear contradiction can be seen here. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also see in today's urgent question the renewed attempt of the liberals to misuse this parliamentary instrument, because we have just discussed this question in this House a few days ago. [[Abg. May. Stadler: My God! Put on another record!]] We have exchanged very profound arguments, and I claim and I am very sure that social policy is well suited for you to use them in order to insure the population and in particular to frighten the socially weak. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have to accept that pigs are happening in the main association! This is your solidarity with the wasteful! They're still trying to defend you!]] They are doing polemics with social policy to make a political point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We stand for a responsible social policy, a social policy based on social change, on demographic change, but also on the progress of medicine. The cornerstone of this policy is legal social security, which is the system of social security, to which we fully confess ourselves. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I sometimes wonder at such a debate that the liberals seem to have passed decisions in this House and you, ladies and gentlemen, have not understood what reforms and improvements have been made in the field of social policy in recent years, reforms to adapt pension rights for the future to the new structures and new circumstances: care as a very important supplementary measure for the social security of people in need of care, recognition of a greater job value of home care and other offers for patients and for the insured. However, we have also made further progress with the Structural Adjustment Act – in keeping with the election promises we have made. The Federal Chancellor has already made this clear in his reply. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the situation in health insurance in detail, because you, too, referred to this subject by the liberals. What is the starting situation? – Medical progress offers ever better, but also more complex diagnostic and therapy options, and the life expectancy of the population increases with pleasure. I would remind you that we had a life expectancy of 70 years with the men in 1984, with the women of 77 years. In 1994 it rose by three years, in the case of men to 73, in the case of women to almost 80 years. This also means cost increases for social health insurance and, accordingly, the need to adapt to new developments. I would also like to say with self-confidence that we are proud to have an extremely high standard in health care, and that we are very well placed in international comparison – and this with a comparatively low health insurance contribution. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I want They also point out that practically all the Austrian population, 99 percent, is involved in statutory health insurance and non-contributory co-insurance is an elementary, very large family policy performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Where does the way go, where are the goals? – For us, it is crucial that the high quality of health care and health care is also ensured for the future that we can make medical progress available to all insured persons, in particular those who are socially weak. We are in favour of taking all measures that are cost-effective without losing quality. The current situation in the local health phone. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that, in recent years, the financial development of the funds has been characterised by the fact that revenue is lower than expenditure; on the one hand, due to increased requirements in hospital financing, but also due to the higher requirements of other medical services. This means that, in 1995 and 1996 and in the following years, we are faced with a negative behaviour and therefore a question of the performance of the high performance if measures are not put in good time or had already been put in place. I would like to remind you of what has already happened because we have focused on minimizing expenditure. In the case of drugs, there has been a reduction in the margin of wholesale trade, which has brought considerable savings, and I am proud that the workers' chambers, through their negotiations, have been able to achieve their pressure to save 500 million schilling last year. We are negotiating with the pharmaceutical industry about revenue-oriented drug-related cost development, and there are also projects on how reasonable treatment with the drugs can be done, where despite cheaper medication, the same healing success is ensured. I would like to mention a number of other measures put in place in the field of savings, for example those examples that have also been taken with the contractual doctors, with the Austrian Medical Chamber, a principle agreement on revenue-oriented cost development. It has already been discussed and reported on the cost reductions in the remedies and cures. There has also been considerable savings in administrative expenditure, and it is planned that in 1997 and 1998 – for 1997 and 1998 – 300 million Schilling will also be saved, with a further 200 million in 1998 – in order to be dampened on the expenditure side. The most important step in finding the conditions for maintaining the quality of our health system for the future in the structures was the agreement on the reorganisation of the hospital system, because without these measures we would have a discharge of around 5.8 billion schilling in 1996 and of about 8.6 billion schilling in 1997. It has succeeded in reducing these expenditures by two thirds, so that we are faced with the situation of having to put additional measures on the revenue side. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to point out that in the negotiations on these measures there are different positions in relation to each other as to how to apply the necessary volume. The Federal Chancellor has already mentioned this point in his reply. On the one hand, the negotiator proposed self retention for all benefits, including a higher contribution to pensioners. A holiday was required by the economy in the event of illness, the economy was required not to pay for the first days of sick leave, and other demands have also been made on the table. On the part of the Social Democratic Negotiators, we have been working for savings, including a prescription fee, and primarily as a supplementary measure for a moderate increase in contributions, which should have been the pensioners at a rate of 0.05 per cent for employers and workers, 0.15 for employees and 0.2 per cent for pensioners. It was not possible to find in this negotiation, on this question, the consensus that, in my view, would have been the better, namely, a moderate increase in contributions. There was an agreement that laid the foundations in the last Council of Ministers both for ensuring quality and for providing health care services. A package of measures, both on the expenditure side and also on the revenue side, which I do not need to remind you in detail. It was, however, crucial for us to ensure, even in these negotiations, that the socially-politically absolutely necessary measure, the extension of the sickness allowance in the ASVG right to 52 weeks, is implemented so that the legal situation is not such that long-term sickness, the weakest and the poorest of the insured, would have covered only 26 weeks of their existence. It was and is indispensable for us to have this new right. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me say it again: I regret that political agreement could not be reached on a moderate contribution variant. I am sorry, above all, because the Coalition Agreement, of course with my full agreement, says that we have to deal with a further increase in additional labour costs very carefully and that it is not desirable. However, I believe that this moderate form would in no way have reduced the competitiveness of the economy and would not have become an unreasonable burden. I would also like to stress, however, that it is important for me, given the question of the development of additional labour costs, to consider in perspective how we can bring other funding bases for maintaining the level of health care into the debate and also into the realization. Mr Hums has indicated this in the negotiations and has also referred to it. I think we should continue to pursue his ideas towards higher taxation in the field of health care and look forward to the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that the negotiations by our Social Ministers have succeeded in introducing a health certificate per quarter, which is intended to cause costs of 50 s, to accompany those all-round provisions in such a way that, if they are introduced, a better social tolerance can be achieved. For the pensioners are excluded from the pensioners, the children are excluded, they are excluded from the prescription fee, i.e. those who have a permanent medication. It was also ensured that no additional fee for a health certificate will be charged in the event of transfers. Our Social Minister has made a great effort to help the social component to break through. Nevertheless, I believe that this political agreement has left two principles that are important to me: the duality between employers' and employees' contributions and the solidarity between the healthy and the sick. . I therefore believe that this contribution scheme would take more account of it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We will certainly discuss very carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs the agreement in the Council of Ministers, and I am convinced that we will also present in this House provisions which will be approved in the House. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If you look at the Austrian borders, you will see that the concepts of these countries are quite different, worse, more unsocial than ours. Because we put people at the centre of our policies, and we are trying to make a socially balanced social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9217	Next, Mr Feurstein, Mr President. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9238	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate, the debate between the Freeman and the SPÖ, is being conducted with a certain degree of hardness. However, I would like to say that there have been some changes in the terms of expression. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ofner was very polite!]] It is true that Dr. Ofner uses formulations other than some other representatives of the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Main was also very polite!]] The proposals to solve this problem, which you have outlined, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, are not realistic for me. I'll call it a short time. In order to reorganise the 100-billion recovery requirement by the Structural Adjustment Act, Dr. Ofner has proposed nothing but a family promotion of 4,000 S per child and month, thus approximately doubling it. Everyone would like to do so, but how should this lead to the restructuring of the state budget? I can't imagine that! I do not say that the proposal is primitive, but unrealistic, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. Aumayr: That doesn't change anything!]] The same is true of your proposal, Mr Mag. The main task of burdening the protected area with a health insurance contribution. For me, of course, the sheltered area also belongs to the Veterinary Chamber, including the Medical Chamber. I wonder what about the pensions, the supplementary pensions of the doctors and the veterinarians. I am curious how your professional colleagues will respond to your proposal to solve this problem. I cannot imagine that there can be agreement on this. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! You can't make politics with promises. I must say clearly that your promises made before the national elections did not refer to reality and did not take account of the situation. You did not have any solutions, and I regret that you have come back to them today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think you clearly made a mistake at the time, a very serious mistake. I think our position with the bowl-dist course was more honest. We have presented the position and put forward concrete proposals for solutions. We have shown necessary changes. We are also in the autumn of 1995 on the government programme from January 1995...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9300	Second, Mr. Deputies! I'd ask you not to use phones in the meeting room. That's also in the house order. - Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9326	We have agreed to this government agreement in January 1995. It was not always easy and easy for us to carry out this position in autumn 1995. In March 1996, we were able to draw up a joint declaration of government, which included the essential points of the dish-dist course. That was not easy for us either, and it was not an easy task to stand at this course. But we are in favour, Federal Chancellor, of what we have agreed. Even today, we stand by it. Mrs Hostasch! We have – I too personally – conducted very constructive discussions with the Minister of Social Affairs in weeks and months, and I believe that, of course, the SPÖ Group is in favour of this agreement, which is based not on unilateral proposals but on joint proposals. If that isn't the case – I can't quite understand it now – then I would deeply regret it, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have made it clear in various contributions and writings in recent times that we are facing a redundancie in social policy. We must make it clear how social policy is heading. We must tell people clearly where the way is going and clearly say that, of course, not all the risks of man can be secured, but that we will fully ensure the important risks, namely age, illness, disability, accident, unemployment, and we will endeavour to guarantee this security, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If today, in the request of the liberals, it has been criticised that early retirement periods have been increased when it has been criticised that we can no longer count on non-contributory study periods, but that we depend on contributions to secure pensions, then the responsibility is, Mr Dr. Ofner, whom we are aware of and which we are referring to, but which you obviously ignore. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But you can't promise the opposite before!]] I regret that you have just mentioned these examples, Dr. Ofner. You have shown by this that you have not realistically judged the matter, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now that you have made a call, Dr. Ofner, you prove to me again that you do not see the difference between a young apprentice or companion, who is from the 15th century. A student who also has to provide the necessary prerequisite for ensuring his pension under the Generational Treaty. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How me!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I was both!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I must clearly contradict you on three further points: It is simply wrong, it is incorrect if you claim that the real value of pensions is not guaranteed from 1998 onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Wart’ a biterl! You don't know that yet!]] The ASVG and other social security laws state very precisely that the increase in pensions must at least correspond to the rate of inflation. Their statement on this was an untrue statement, which is justified by nothing, Mr. Dr. Ofner! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It also proves to me ignorance of yours, if you see here that the pensioners have only 10 percent of the care allowance as pocket money, but do not mention that the pensioners are, of course, at home and even if they receive social assistance, 20 percent of their pension and special payments, i.e. the 13th and 14ths. Pension, free of charge. This must be taken into account if you discuss this question of change in the care allowance and present it here. That was a not complete and thus incorrect claim you have made here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have thus told the pensioners that they will be taken something that they have not been taken into account in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Not at all!]] The third point, Mr Dr. Ofner: They criticise the need for a self-reservation per day of at least 70 s for spa stays. – I don’t know anyone who goes for a cure who has critically noted to me that he has to pay 70 s a day. On the contrary: These 70 S reserves, which one has to pay in the future for spa stays, have been received positively by those concerned, as they thus guarantee our social security, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me comment briefly on the situation of health insurance companies. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, there must be no change in the extra wage costs – and there is no minimal change that has been made by Mrs Hostasch here, ladies and gentlemen. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say quite clearly: The minimum change you have proposed today is not minimal, but it means additional costs of 1.5 billion schilling, and 1.5 billion schilling for the economy in this situation is not a small one, but in this difficult situation, Mr President of the ÖGB, I must also tell you, the economic location of Austria is at risk. That is why we have rejected this and will never be able to agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's right: Two thirds of the total volume, this 7 billion schilling, for the year 1997, is saved by structural measures. These are real savings: two thirds of the 7 billion schilling. I consider this to be something very important; this is our common result, which we have achieved together with the Minister for Social Affairs. I would really like to stress this and support the position of the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of the non-voting representatives of SPÖ) The Social Democrats not!]] Dr. Ofner has criticized that his parents are fully insured in the ASVG in the future – two persons – by a monthly health insurance contribution, if I understood it correctly. If this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, then call me a European State which offers such social security in the event of illness for pensioners! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You got that wrong! Gottfried! Have a look! You didn't watch out for it!]] I'm just saying, you criticized that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a social system, which is quality at a very high level. We must try to keep this level. Quality in social policy and health policy can only be ensured if the financial conditions are met when the financial requirements are clarified. That's why we've been trying in the last few weeks. Finally, to make it quite clear: I am in favour of a permanent renewal of social policy! That was always a fundamental principle of our social policy self-understanding. "Wend" in this context, however, does not mean a standstill. Those who aim to preserve social policy, simply to maintain the existence, are certainly not on the right path. For us, turning is a renewal, and that is why we want to continue our efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9531	Mr Dr. Ofner has referred to an actual correction. Rules of Procedure! Talk time! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9556	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My previous speaker, Mr Feurstein, assumed that I would have said that my parents were totally insured by a size of 500 s, which would be nowhere else in the world. – I didn’t talk about that at all. I have pointed out that my father's pension for both parents, contrary to Mr Bundeskanzler's explicit statement, was not going to be taken away from the pensioners, had previously amounted to 14 756,60 S per month, and subsequently 14 314 S. That's about 442,60 s less.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9586	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9607	Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate on urgent question gives us the opportunity to make a few important points here, in particular in order to contrast the question answered by the Federal Chancellor. But first of all, I would like to turn to Mr Feurstein, who has just left the speaker's desk, and give him something so to speak. They argued that we have a relatively high level or high quality of the social system. – That is once undisputed. But that's just an element of the problem. The second element is: Do we also have a reasonable price-performance ratio to produce this level? – The third element is: At what cost do we produce the relatively high level? Are the costs that are in a reasonable relation to the level we have in Austria in the field of health care and also in the field of pensions, or are the costs disproportionately high for the result we achieve? Our thesis is: If a reform was actually started, a reform would have to take place, then it would have to be possible to keep both the high level and the guarantee of pensions with the same expenses – perhaps even if we are lucky to have reduced costs. If this is the case today – both the Federal Chancellor and colleagues from the government parties presented it in his remarks – the magnitude of the performance would be that two thirds of the expenditure had been saved and only one third had been by means of additional revenue, then I say to you: That's not a great performance! Great would have been the performance if you had managed it exclusively structurally and on the expenditure side! If the Vice-Chancellor says in an appropriate TV show in the interview: This is a reform of the century!, then the whole insidiousness of the Federal Government is evident, because this reform is at best equipped with a range of one to two years. [[Abg. Böhacker: Very modest! A modest vice chancellor!]] Then you'll need money again. That is why the next thing I would like to keep here at the beginning is the following: We only discussed this emergency programme here relatively recently and decided to use this so-called savings package, you called it "rehabilitation law". At the time, all the informants were aware that the health insurance sectors are not included in the package, i.e. that these follow-up effects will come. In other words, it was presented to the people at the time, so to speak, an overall package, in which some billions were missing. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: We said that clearly! We have always said that the health sector is excluded!]] True – but it has failed! And I'll tell you: There are still a few such "packerl" missing. The next savings packages are already on the post! Economic growth is not as forecast. This will mean that you will have liquidity problems and will return to revenue – perhaps this time two thirds of revenue and only one third of expenditure – and that is the real problem. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] The urgent question is quite central, because this is now being played with several different, sunken cards: On the one hand, we have predicted to the pensioners that the revenue-based measure taken at their expense is particularly beneficial because they do not have to pay health insurance fees – they pay "only" 0.25% higher health insurance contributions. In other words, they would have a lower contribution than the others. – This will tell them something that was not determined by you at all. – It is not said, however, that they pay much more in the final effect than the others! Thankfully, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has predicted to us that this fee of 50 s per month is about 16.60 s, for people who have to use a health certificate. For pensioners, this now looks like every pensioner who has more than 6 660 S pension per month, regardless of whether he is sick or not, pays a higher amount per month than 16,60 S. For example, if he has a pension of 10,000 s, he pays 25 s per month – regardless of whether he is sick or not. From this you can see that this bill is just a game of numbers to hide that you actually just tried liquidity... Mr. Feurstein! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: All health certificates for pensioners are free!]] The pensioner does not need to pay a fee for the health certificate. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: There is also the toothlight, the shine for the wife and so on!]] He doesn't need to pay a fee for health certificates, we agree on that. But, regardless of whether he needs a health certificate or not, from 6 660 S monthly pension per month, he pays more than he would have had to pay for the health certificate if he needed one. Therefore, the pensioners tend to pay more for it. That is why I believe that this is a game of numbers. I'll tell you: Moreover, it is anyway a revenue-based measure and does not have the touch of a self-retaining with structural effect – and is also without any accompanying reform, because the actual problem is the cost. If I hear there'll be a checkup in the health insurance sector in the future, I'm glad. I'm just wondering: Why not now? I also wonder if you believe that the introduction of a controlling, which ultimately does nothing other than finding the weak points better, is already the final conclusion of wisdom. This is at best the beginning of a reform! What is important is that you create a awareness of costs in social security institutions and, of course, monitor them. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But as long as you do not even decide to introduce a pricing obligation for medications so that the people who buy the drugs themselves see that, because they bought them privately, they had to pay much more than the health insurance pays for it, as long as you don't even have the prices on it, the guide prices, as long as people don't know what's actually being pushed over the shop table for as long as they pay "only" the prescription fee, will be You have no transparency in the system, and people will be disappointed! Let me now turn to the topic of pensioners who have been so particularly highlighted as "favourable" on this issue. Indeed, there are all the important aspects in the urgent request, such as no valorization and so on, and so on – and now there are increases in contributions! Now, how do you want to wander around to make that happen? However, I have to comment in detail on a reply by Mr Bundeskanzler, because it has bothered me, and that is the answer to Question B 15. I'm saving myself reading the question. The request is distributed. The core of this question was whether one could approach the idea that the insured person should be given the choice of the insurance institution. That is a basically right approach. This is certainly the approach: Insurance versus compulsory insurance. But the answer was alarming, because the German Chancellor here quite salopp and without being able to deal with the possibilities that such a system would bring, simply made the claim that – and I am talking here of social health insurance, not of any supplementary insurance for rich people – the chronically ill, the child-rich families, the older generation and so on would have a disadvantage. I ask you: Why would it be a disadvantage for chronically ill, children's-rich families or older people if they could choose between the already existing social security funds if there was a need to contract social security funds and if, of course, not age or disease in the narrower sense would be factors of the premium, but perhaps other incentives, such as life-management in the sense of non-smoking or smoking and so on, so very narrow bandwidths? Because it is quite possible to create a competitive situation without exposing people to the merciless consequences of pure competition. And if there are a number of social security schemes, among which one can vote, this means that the most efficient social security institution, that is, the least-in-house worker who works with the most reasonable collective agreements with the doctors, may be on the overtaking road. That is why I ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to reconsider this partial reply. If you look solely at the existing system, as it is, and have only the hope that the self-management that has already failed, perhaps like Munich, will get out of the swamp, you will make a real mistake of thinking. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] To conclude: If we do not apply the old economic sense that only if the price-performance ratio is true does a system represent both really high quality and efficient, as well as is manageable, then we will not get out of the constant hole stop in the area of both pensions and health insurance. Then the next increase in contributions or the next recipe fee or the next new health certificate fee waits so to speak around the corner of the turn of the year. Then we have the next small savings package in February 1997 for this purpose, in March 1997 for that purpose and so on. But one will not succeed: The budget will not be consolidated at the end of 1997! And you will have to explain this to the people you now have to ask – especially those in the poverty zone – for the cash register!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9712	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9733	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, it is a matter of concern that you should be reminded again and again of the constituencies that you have obviously forgotten some constituencies. However, I think that you seem to be of the opinion that you are fulfilling election promises if you break election promises. And you demonstrated that today. It's not just an empty rhetorical flake. You have demonstrated very clearly today what you mean by that! For example, you said, Mr Bundeskanzler, that the promise of a just health reform was fulfilled by what you have now taken. What is to be said if, on the other hand, a party colleague from you, Mr Nürnberger, says that what has been taken there is extremely unsocial? What about this "righteous" health reform if, Mr President, you, as I know, as well as I do, if you can never make a contribution to justice in this form – and you have now introduced it to an even greater degree – because self retention is increasingly demanding and drawing on those with scarce incomes more strongly than those who are relatively good at checkouts? What about it, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you call it a "right health reform", although, for example, the Minister of Social Affairs does not even know what is actually going back from these self-preservations to the health care sector, which is simmering from administrative, administrative and so on somewhere else? – We don’t even have data on what happens to this self-retaining! We know that there are incredibly many restraints: 20, 30, 40 – Depending on whether you titulate what you have to do as a complete self-service, for example, with your teeth, is also self-retainable. If I have to pay about 100 percent because I want to buy a crown, is that still self-sustained? - I mean it! And this restraint is enough for health care. I think that what we fear to say and to say clearly, is a two-class medicine. There is the social security which provides certain basic benefits and there is the social security which no longer provides benefits for what is essential. That's not just health reform! That's no contribution forward! What about it, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say there are exceptions for children and pensioners? You know, Mr Federal Chancellor, just as well as I do, that the fact that someone is a pensioner alone does not mean that he deserves little or that he deserves much. We know among the pensioners also here in this high house some very well deserved "examples" by pensioners who can also work next to it. We know other pensioners who deserve very little. We know, in turn, other pensioners who can accumulate three or four different pensions. – Why should this be excluded, for example, from a restraint? Why is he supposed to be excluded? – You can't explain that to me! This is not a socially just health reform in the sense that self retention would actually be socially effective. Nor is it, Mr Feurstein, as you say: I talked to all the people during a spa stay, and they all agreed. – This can be done, Mr Feurstein – but you have not talked to the people who cannot afford to stay in the spa! There are them, the pensioners who are just over the minimum pension. I can call it you, I have it in my circle of relatives. They have to think about it every time if you can afford a spa stay because you have to pay this retention. This had to be considered by family members so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] I don't think you can make it that easy. – Mr. Feurstein! Where you go on a spa stay, perhaps everyone will be able to afford it! But They know as well as I do that there are enough pensioners and poorer people – not only among pensioners – who cannot afford to do so. That with the self-retaining is such a thing, not only with the pensioners, even with the children. The exemption from the health certificate fee for children is not yet a social criterion – if we are already talking about it. There are parents who have a high income who could afford to do so for their children. There are, on the other hand, low-income parents. It is totally impossible to differentiate after that because it would require much more administrative effort than, for example, would have been necessary or possible now. Much easier would be a 0.1 percent increase in the health insurance contribution for all. – This would mean a little more justice than this self-preservation system, than this scheme with health certificate fees, which contradicts all that we know about a modern orientation of health policy. The family doctor should be upgraded; this is at least a major health policy discussion. But what are you doing? – The passage to the family doctor is more difficult due to the health certificate fee. We don't have to think about a doctor's visit, but we have certain groups of people. Another example in the field of health reform: Before the elections, the idea of prevention was emphasized by all – including you, Federal Chancellor. What's happening now? – In exchange with some of what has been negotiated – and the colleague Hostasch knows very well – it is promised that workers protection may be worsened. Is this a contribution to prevention, Mrs. Hostasch? Is this a contribution if a very important core area of the Workers' Protection Act may fall over the next few weeks or months? This is the core of the Workers' Protection Act, where it is really a matter of enabling prevention in the establishments for the workers concerned, through the evaluation of risks and risks at work. This is the core of the new law! But now it is said: In exchange for you to give in one point, we will give you at the other the centre, the central core of the Workers' Protection Act. And with that, social democracy – and also the ÖVP – offers prevention. I think that you from the EIA are in favour of prevention at the workplace too! And the core of this prevention is this evaluation obligation and regulation. This cannot be simply exchanged with one or the other, Mr Feurstein! Federal Chancellor! They also said that greater justice is achieved through greater consideration of the principle of insurance in pensions. – That is only partly true, Mr. Federal Chancellor! What you have not achieved so far is the harmonisation of pension systems. But this is a very central area for insurance policy. You know just as well as I do that officials with very high incomes receive much more pension benefits compared to what they pay for insurance contributions. There is no guidance on insurance. There is also no guidance on insurance for women who, despite some improvements that have occurred in recent years, have no or little chance of ever having a decent pension. Since all the bills of child rearing are of no use if there are still large barriers through the 15-year-olds for women to come to a pension, especially to a decent pension. That is where I am not helped by the speech of the insurance obligation and by the stronger emphasis on the obligation of insurance. Because a woman who has worked for only a few years falls out of the pension system at all. But these are the problems that we must ask ourselves on the pension question! I can only say: This sentence, "more justice has been achieved through greater consideration of the principle of insurance", has nothing but nothing to do with reality at all! He has nothing to do with this because, in some areas, where the money is expected, in the middle pension area of the ASVG, the principle of insurance has been strengthened. But it really breaks down! Those groups of people who have great difficulties at work have the same difficulties in reaching an old age pension later on. Upstairs, the insurance principle also breaks down: Individual groups such as improved officials are completely excluded from the insurance principle, from the strong connection to the insurance principle. In fact, there should be the links between structural reforms. For all of this – Mr Kier is right that he has stressed this once again – what you have taken up in the last few weeks and days in the field of health insurance reform – not what has already been established; there are certainly also a few points that are important – has only a small part to do with expenditure-side reform, with expenditure-side cuts. They generate additional revenue: Income from self-retaining, receipts from health certificate fees, revenue by increasing insurance contributions for pensioners. So I'm at the last point of your promise: There is no deterioration for pensioners! – That was again a clear sentence from you today, Federal Chancellor. But of course there is a deterioration in the health insurance contribution! That is, one can say, not very stressful for the individual pensioner, but it is nevertheless a deterioration and also the break of an election promise. Let's be honest: If you take the sentences you say out here quite seriously, then you also have to stand with them. And if you, Federal Chancellor, have said in the past: No deterioration for existing pensions! – that was a clear sentence from you – then we have to say here today: The health insurance contribution, which is to be decided here, leads to a deterioration, including for existing pensions. This is no different value – even if it is little –: That's the breakup of an election promise! This does not apply to all, but it is especially due to those who have little money in the pension. And that is the point: we also need to recognise in these reforms, in these measures you are taking, that the self-retaining, the health certificate fees, also the increase in contributions for pensioners, are strappling those who are unable to afford it, who really need to turn and turn every big one. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you should make it that easy. You too, Mr Bundeskanzler, should, if you already want to make an election promise, consider what election promises you make. Federal Chancellor! The look you now offer is not very good if you list all the election promises and what you said today. – You said: I'm holding to the election promises! When you see the results, you have to say: Unfortunately, there is not much left of it in certain areas! What you have done with this "reform" is not a contribution to just saving, to a structural reform. It is true what Mr Nürnberger said: It is extremely unsocial, which has been done here in certain areas. However, ladies and gentlemen, this does not justify what the representatives of the FPÖ are doing here. They stand here and play, so to speak, the defender of the perpetrators. I would also like to read to you, ladies and gentlemen, what you said before the elections. For example, Mr Haigermoser referred to the health sector, which sees savings of 8 to 9 billion schilling. In principle, there should be self retention of around 150 S for all benefits, but socially staggered. In this way, 3 billion schillings could be saved in the case of spa stays alone. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It also applies to you that you should take seriously what you say. And you can't blame the Federal Chancellor for what you wanted to do yourself: They wanted to force the restraint. They wanted to expand self-retaining! You can't say: That is not true, Mr Haigermoser said. We hear from you over and over again – you say it again and again – that is not true, because that was only the one and the one who claimed it. It's the problem of how seriously you take yourself. Mr Ofner has, in principle, also accused the government of this. He said: What we're experiencing now is the "hole-to-hole-to-policy". This has long been the case with regard to health policy, social policy. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] But also for you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you should take seriously your constituencies, what you say, otherwise you must also take responsibility for them!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9875	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e9896	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor – I don't see him right now! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Oellinger, we assume responsibility at all times, that is not a problem for us. I can't leave it. As a doctor, I have to make a diagnosis for you again today. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] The load package is pregnant! – If you look carefully – you don’t even need to look closely at it, you just need to be a semi-good diagnostic – you can see that – listen to me, I have to explain – in the belly of the health insurance system at rapid speed a new load baby will grow up, which will be fully reproductive in another year! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Pregnancy is nothing negative!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should have avoided it instead of giving in to the doom of feelings and just grabbing the sick and the pensioners deep in your pocket. Today is still an opportunity to pull the emergency brake. Listen to the voices from your own area, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ – unfortunately there are only very few here; I think the others are in the cafeteria, but maybe they hear me and come by a jump, so that they can hear what I am holding out to them. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: You're not that important!]] I keep an eye on you again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: You seem very good!]] I believe that I am just as important as any other Member. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think it is right for elected representatives to take a Member here not seriously and not important. In any case, the SP-Metal Chief Nürnberger says: This package is extremely unsocial! - A man from your ranks. After all, the Upper Austrian SP-chef and state captain Hochmair say: The package for the rehabilitation of the health insurance companies is on the table, but in the form we can certainly not accept it. Instead of seriously thinking about structural reforms, a new slave to the burden of workers and pensioners had simply been launched. A comprehensive reform concept for health insurance funds is to be developed over the summer. So Hochmair, one of your ranks. Deputies! I take it important, I take each of you important, and I would recommend that you listen to your own people. But you can also hear what Mrs. Health Minister Krammer meant last year on the subject of health certificate – self retention. She said that a health tax was embarrassing, she was shaken and advocated real health care reforms. [[Abg. Böhacker: Then she has to step back when this comes!]] - So Krammer on the 21st. ==References== – We are of the same opinion, Mrs Minister, with only a small time difference, and our opinion has not changed either! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a survey in Upper Austria on the health certificate fee of 50 S: 17 percent – the result of this survey – would no longer go to the doctor in urgent cases. Now imagine that! 17 per cent are for you, Mr Feurstein, maybe little, for me as a doctor it is a lot. Imagine, someone coughs and doesn't see that he has a pneumonia – you don't notice that often you don't notice it until you listen to it or when you x-ray it. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Children are free, you know?]] This may be a vital threat to these patients and also brings new and high costs in the health system! So the SPÖ has managed that social weakness no longer can afford a doctor. That was not quite her slogan before the election, but from today's point of view, I think, he simply has to be called that. You should really hear the advice of a radiologist: Why don't you go through the social health insurance system at last? Use They're politic X-rays to eliminate the abuses! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing I can tell you now: At the checkout X-ray you will receive the first X-ray in color, red-black. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Seidinger and Power. Guggenberger.]] I should like to welcome you, Mr Guggenberger. It is good that you are here when it comes to health policy. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I was just out for a minute! I've been sitting here all afternoon!]] I'm glad to see you. I'm glad I smile at you! Listen to what we say about the liberals. We say: Away from the policy-making system of compulsory insurance, market opening and liberalisation, free competition among insurance companies! It is an ideology issue when the Federal Chancellor repeatedly brings his arguments against it. We call for this liberalisation. We demand free competition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are enough savings potentials, you only have to look at them once. Let's look at the private hospitals, and of the private hospitals 20 percent of basic medical care is provided. The private hospitals have not yet been included in the LKF. You still have no financing system. If these private hospitals need to be closed when they enter into, because there is no financing system for them, then first of all the health system will be expensive and then, second, the jobs of the people working there will be lost. Further example: The Kärntner Medical Chamber has calculated that a 10 percent reduction in the price of drugs would eliminate the annual deficit of social security insurance with a blow. Among other things, this could be done by passing on EU benefits. We all know that there has been a little bit of a "war of numbers" between the Carinthian medical chamber and the pharmacy chamber. Nevertheless: It hides a huge potential for savings in the medicinal products sector, without reducing the quality of medicine! My colleague, Dr. Pumberger, will tell you this very well – proven and researched – today. Why, do you think, buy more and more Carinthian drugs in Italy and not with us? Why do practical doctors with house apotheque have to get the medications through the detour of a expensive intermediary? – That’s completely unnecessary! Let us speak again, as in the last session, of the relief aid and of the exorbitant spas in the healing area. I would like to repeat the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! They so often accuse us of untruth. It means that we often say false things, we assume something, we do not research correctly. Mr Feurstein said to me for the first time at the last plenary session that I am always very closely researched, and I thank him for that. And that's what I did now. You certainly remember the debate at the last plenary session, it was a lot about the ARGE Orthopedics. It was also claimed by Dr Probst that social security schemes and social security schemes have nothing to do with this ARGE orthopedics. I've got a letter from the 14th century here. In June 1996, the plenary session took place. This letter is from Mr Dkfm. Karl Drimal, this is the Bundesinnungsverwaltungsführer. The letter is addressed to Mr. Secretary-General Dr. Günter Stummvoll, who, I think, is unfortunately not here in the plenary room. I quote the first sentence of this letter: The ARGE Orthopedics was founded in agreement with the main association to prepare the preparatory work considered necessary in the context of the negotiation of a new general contract for the preparation of a comprehensive article catalogue... – So: The ARGE Orthopedics was founded in agreement with the main association. It is not true that the main association, as has been said here, has nothing to do with the ARGE orthopedics. Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the load package. It says: Nobody wants this package. Your own people – I brought you quotes before – do not want this package and not the citizens at all! It is clear that we need – I am offering this – a thoughtful break in order to put on foot a truly future reform package over the summer. Do you have the greatness to admit that the agreement is bad that it is not good! Do you have the size to admit that with this package you are still magnifying the social fractures between the old and the young! Have the size to admit that this package is also extremely unsocial! Do you have the size to refuse this package today your consent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10099	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Povysil is sufficiently supported. He is involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Guggenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10126	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about the relief, my predecessor said. I'm very happy to do this favor to her. We all remember the last meeting of 13. In June, when various reliefs were presented to us out here by Members of the Liberal Party. [[Call to the liberals:Never seen – what?- Oh, my God!]] These reliefs were objects which were supposedly ordered by a Vienna-based insured person of the local health insurance fund and issued by a dealer of the Vienna regional health insurance fund. In this context, a very interesting letter from the Obmann of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, Brunner, has reached us, in which he tells us the following facts – I quote –: ==References== In June 1996, a trusted doctor from the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse and an administrative officer visited the insured person in his summer home to offer immediate assistance if necessary. It turned out – you hear and marvel! – that the insured person had not suffered either a stroke or an inability to move, as shown on one of the three certificates of regulation. He needs, as our representatives could hardly find out, not even a floor, let alone a chair. The insured person also states that he has not been with his family doctor and therefore has not received any certificates of regulation. He had never taken these items and was never at the company. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Look here! Interesting!]] The trust doctor of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse then examined the patient with his consent and determined one of the age according to quite good health condition. The insured one also showed him his findings. – This is what the chairman of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse writes to us. Therefore, the Wiener Landkreisskrankenkasse (Third Chamber of the Sickness Court of Vienna) did so on 21 January. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is it good that we have made the urgent ones, now you will become active!]] So it was the liberals who harassed this Parliament in highly questionable processes! [[Call to the liberals: "Annoyed"?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're a "democracy"!]] Please note: We are not going to blame anyone for committing electoral fraud! Of someone who has such a sloppy relationship to such transactions, not at all! Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did the Social Democratic Party place on land and land before the elections? – "We will not allow more socially weak to afford a doctor!" [[Call the Freeman: Rise!]] What have we done in recent months? This has not been hidden from you. [[Call to the liberals: They have done nothing!]] We have replaced the Hospital Cooperation Fund, which will expire at the end of this year, with a reform of the hospital. In spite of all the unknowings, we have brought this to the fore. This hospital reform will renew the structures of Austrian health care from scratch. This reform of hospitals will – and this is particularly important – result in an increase in costs that have been no longer acceptable in the field of hospitals in recent years. So these are measures that will lead to a financial recovery of the health insurance companies. These are measures that enable health insurance companies to do everything they can to ensure that a doctor can continue to be more socially weak in the sense of our promise. It was Minister of Social Affairs Franz Hums, who, in difficult negotiations and discussions with the pharmacy chamber, moved the pharmacists to take a little away from their wholesale range. It was the Social Minister who succeeded in discussing and negotiating with the pharmaceutical industry, with the doctors, to implement measures that will make us save 2.6 billion schilling this year. In negotiations with social security, the Minister of Social Security has succeeded in ensuring that significant savings are made in the area of social security management, although – and this was added – social security is very important, with 2.6 percent of administrative costs having internationally excellent data. Nevertheless, it has succeeded – and it will continue to succeed – in making savings even here. All this in the sense of our election promise: We will ensure that this health system is secured and we will ensure that social weaknesses can continue to be a doctor in the future. For this we stand – and all these measures are to be seen under this premise, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards the much-discussed health certificate fee: They blame this for better knowledge! You know very well that this proposed health certificate fee, which is still under discussion, is not being abolished by socially weak people. Please note that derogations are provided for in any case. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Socialist Group, I do not hide the fact that we would have imagined another way of filling the funding gap with the health insurance companies. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did you now agree on something or not?]] We would have imagined that a moderate increase in contributions would be appropriate. We know about this in good company: According to opinion polls, over 80 percent of the Austrian population find that a moderate, appropriate, modest increase in contribution is quite something to live with. We are also in the Society of the General Assembly of the Tyrolean District Hospital. Interestingly, in a unanimous decision, the employers' representatives, prominent Tyrolean economic chambermen, have said there to increase their contribution. I do not think, Mr Feurstein, that the Tyrolean entrepreneurs, the Tyrolean economic operators, can expect the Tyrolean economic chamberers less well than others. So please, constantly discussing and arguing about who is at risk of the economic location, the industrial site of Austria, is not justified from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we must note that this was not feasible because it was not negotiable. It is in a coalition that both partners must be ready to agree on one point of view. However, I would have an urgent appeal in this regard. We learned yesterday that at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse as at 31. March 1996 totalled 2.6 billion schilling of health insurance contributions. 2.6 billion schilling health insurance contributions! In other words, these are amounts which the entrepreneurs have already collected and retained from their employees. They do not pass them on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That's not how it is!]] That's negligent, that's irresponsible and it's shut down as quickly as possible. It is important to ensure that employers fulfil their duty to the Vienna Regional Health Fund directly and immediately and without further delay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We could also have come up with a harmonisation of contributions. It is difficult to argue that workers have to pay higher health insurance contributions than employees. In this direction we had some ideas, unfortunately they were not enforceable. But what we have resisted – and this is very important, this is due in turn to the repressiveness, the negotiating skill, the persistence and consistency of the Social Minister – is that there is no restraint. Our promise and your constituency have been related to this before the elections – against all constantly repeated demands to remove a 20 percent reserve for each doctor's visit. We have not allowed that, and that is why we have also made this election commitment: Also more socially weak will be able to afford a doctor in the future. We have achieved – and this has already been said several times – that the sickness benefit can continue to be paid 52 weeks in the future, by law. [[Abg. Oils: That's less!]] I would remind you that a few days ago a prominent social politician of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, Dr. Mayr, meant: This is not at all possible because we are legally doubling this claim for sickness benefit. [[Abg. Oils: It has been lowered!]] We have put ourselves in this position, and this is extremely important, because 16 000 Austrians would be affected by it. The poorest of the poor – in this case it is true – would be remitted to social assistance in this case. [[Abg. Oils: There were 78 weeks!]] This is not in question for us, in this respect we have enforced ourselves, that is what characterizes the manuscript of our Minister for Social Affairs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also extremely important that it has succeeded in getting higher cost contributions from the family compensation fund for health insurance. Pregnancy is not a disease, at least on this point we should agree, Mrs Colleague. And it is therefore quite legitimate to demand that the family compensation fund for this week's allowance should go deeper than before. I do not want to miss out on issues which are undoubtedly discussed in our group, even controversially, such as the health certificate fee. I have already mentioned it, and it has also been said by previous speakers: Pensioners, social weak and children are excluded. It is not the best of all solutions, but it is the only one available to us. Further ideas have also been given to us, such as the requirement to cancel the health certificate fee even in case of transfers from the practical doctor to the specialist. We said no. However, it is all in all a solution that is not necessarily the realization of what we have imagined, but with which we can live. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to hold on again: In these months, we have put in place important structural measures in the field of health policy. We have started the hospital reform, and in the next few months we will have implemented all that has been done between the federal government and countries and social security. The Minister of Social Affairs has agreed with the doctors, with the pharmaceutical industry, with the pharmacists: The administration is slendered. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are measures that will ensure that this Austrian health insurance system will continue to provide fair access to our health system for all people in that country. There is an investigation that confirms that far over three quarters of the Austrian population have the best health score in this Austrian health system. These measures will ensure that it remains the same in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10332	The next speaker was Mrs Klara Motterzu. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10357	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the "Krone" of tomorrow, I read about a "hard fight". – I would say that it is very factual and – at least as far as the applicant’s speech is concerned – a very serious debate. It also gives us liberal opportunity to deal critically with your emergency colleague, colleague and chairman of the Health Committee. There is this opportunity for us to discuss the money acquisition action without any approach to structural measures, because in the health sector – and this has already been done by my previous speakers – we do not see anything before. I am sorry that the Federal Chancellor has just left us. He was – I would like to remind you once again – repeatedly referred to his statements made in the Government Declaration. I would like to speak to him about what he has given of himself today in his reply to the urgent questions, which are also available in writing. It has meant that rehabilitation in the health care sector is and is taking place. I have to object to him, because he knows very well – and this can be read in a "APA" message today – that the negotiations with the countries have not yet been completed and that, after the latest "APA" report of today, it has once again been firmly agreed that by the end of October both a health care plan and a large-scale equipment plan should be available. – So, of conclusion, there can be no talk of agreement. But also the Federal Minister for Finance must not be released from responsibility, because the principles of the statements in his statement are: no intervention in existing pensions. And on the other hand – I quote –: "In view of the fact that the adjustment of the social security pension to the 1st pension is necessary. In January 1996, the figure of 2.3 per cent was significantly above the forecast inflation rates, and we believe that there will be no general "adaptation" in 1997. And a particularly beautiful sentence, which should all let themselves go through the head again and remember: Our older sick or needy fellow citizens can continue to rely on our sense of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Where will the privileged awareness of trust and responsibility remain if, instead of genuine structural reform, citizens are asked to pay back once the financing package for the rehabilitation of the maritime health insurance funds is fixed? Federal Chancellor! I also tell you in absence: This is not a reform, if not a reform. In August, the prescription fees will be increased from 35 S to 42 S if the health certificate fee is at the rate of 50 S and if the pensioners will have to pay more health insurance contributions in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also possible to discuss increases in fees with us liberals, but as long as these charges are only unilateral as long as there is no intention of design for a real structural reform, so long as it is clear that the increase in contributions, but also the retention, as well as the health certificate fee, are not a way out of the health financing deficit, these measures remain for us liberals an unthinked fire brigade action for quick money. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can agree with the best conscience of the rejection of the Vienna Social Democrats by the mayor, the head of state and the deputy SPÖ chairmen, who thought that the package lacked an essential factor, namely the internal reform, that the measures are not sufficient from the sum and that some proposals are socially unbalanced, because they go primarily at the expense of pensioners and the sick. The "Kurier" of tomorrow says that Mr Guggenberger said that better conscience is being negotiated here and that Häupl would have said immense nonsense, and he explains the reasons for his resistance to the planned form of cash recovery. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I don't know, is the Lord still yours, or has he already removed himself from you? [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Did you actually cooperate, or what is that?]] He probably did. I hope that these words, ladies and gentlemen - you are so silent - have not been spoken empty and that you will consider it again before this law is also passed by you. I also follow the statements of the Central Association of Pensioners, who today in a press release said that the increase in the prescription fee by 20 percent is mainly due to the older generation dependent on higher drug requirements. And I understand when it is addressed to the Parliamentarians of the appeal not to accept these burdens. Even today's warning of the director of the Austrian health insurance can't be written in the wind – I quote: A postponement of an urgent medical visit is negative both for the patient and for the health insurance system, as patients are expected to receive increased treatment costs or stay in hospital. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the agreement of the FLAF package, which was negotiated at the flight pace, in the truest sense of the word, namely in the VIP rooms of the Schwechater Airport, I would like to note that, in my view, family minister Bartenstein has lost credibility. I would remind you of his words on the occasion of the budget debate that he does not want to allow any further loopholes in the family compensation fund. How should this new financing, this renewed erodement, if not as a crash – and this once again at the expense of the families? In addition, I cannot understand how a family minister can easily jump over the blade with promises, how a family minister can be satisfied with the fact that from 1998 onwards the social tariffs for the ÖBB will be removed from the FLAF, and how he can be satisfied with further "sugars", such as the question of double-repetents in the course of parliamentary deliberations on the novel of the family tax compensatory law. I can't understand that, it's inexplicable to me. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, another Bonmot. Today, all Members of the House were given the Government template to amend the Family Compensation Act 1967, which is Supplement 220. This draft law provides that 70 per cent of the expenditure on weekly benefits is covered by the compensation fund for family allowances from statutory health insurance. – An agreement that we Liberals will certainly never agree to. What is significant, however, is the way in which Members – including those of the Coalition Government – were once again eroded, for this law already enters into force on 1. In July 1996 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and ==References====External links== In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, this law can only be adopted in the last plenary week of 10 July. ==References== July. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: This is a scandal!]] The question, therefore, remains to me once again, ladies and gentlemen of the House: How long do we continue to enjoy this process, and how long do we watch this demise?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10422	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10443	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I honestly wondered how it was done by Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, this load package II, 2. In the quarter of 1996, the reform of health insurance funds was presented. I ask you: How will you describe it if you really do succeed in reforming it? You can't use the term "reform" any more. This package, which has been decided here, is far from any reform. It is only a prevention of reforms. You want to rehabilitate your deficit at the expense of the sick, at the expense of patients, at the expense of pensioners. No person in the private sector would trust himself when it comes to getting his company back in control and reducing debts, automatically increasing the price of the products without searching everything for cost-saving potentials within his company. In the health insurance sector, it seems that this is not necessary at all, or you absolutely do not want to risk that you will be breaking up rested structures for years and introducing new modern systems. What with the load package II, 2. Quarter 1996, successful, is nothing but that you have created additional administrative burden, which you can't look at now, you don't know how it is supposed to work at all – at least half way away. I would like to say one example: It has been introduced health certificate fee of 50 S. It was decided that this fee should be abolished by the service providers. That's the one side. But my question is: Who collects the health certificate fees from the self-employed, the entrepreneurs? For example, who will charge my health certificate in the future? I don't know who to give me my 50 s. I get once a year a thick package of health certificates, dental certificates and medical certificates, which I take with me to the doctor as I need. So who am I paying my 50 s? Who can control how many appearances I've used? - No one can control that. If you set up a system that can be controlled, then – you know that very well – this is burdened with enormous additional administrative burden. The 50 S, which will be delivered per quarter, will go there or the administrative burden for the 50-S fee will probably be 80 S. If you are still talking about a reform, then you have never really considered what the term "reform" actually means or what reforms are! This form of the new load package is not a reform! If you believe that this will bring something to the government budget or the health insurance fund or that you can improve the health of the population with the 50 S, you are also on the wrong track. Many people have already spoken to me and said to me: If I have to pay 50 s per quarter for the health certificate, I'll wait until I'm really sick, and then I'll go to the doctor. – What that means, you know that too. That is, in the future many people will not go to the doctor until the disease is already acute, so that the duration of healing will be extended accordingly. This is exactly the negative appearance that we actually wanted to save ourselves, because it was always planned to put on prevention, on precautions. We want people to stay healthy or get into a treatment process very soon so as not to make a disease worse. But with this system you will not succeed – quite the contrary: You will achieve that really only the acute cases go to the doctor. It was promised by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky that there will be no additional increases for income weak, for pensioners. That this is not true has been mentioned several times today. I did not believe it to be honest, either, because the structural adjustment law and the tax package that we adopted a few months ago would not be the last burden for this year, which we are clear to me, and that this second tax package will not be the last one for 1996. I believe who is honest with the Federal Government must admit that this will not be the case either, but that was the load package 2. Quarter 1996 and load package 3. Quarter 1996 will be followed shortly. One thing is clear: There will always be areas in which there is still a deficit, and it has already been fashioned to reduce a deficit only by turning costs only and alone on the population so that nothing has to be changed about the structure. I ask you: What is it about you holding on to your firm structures and not overturning them? You're always talking about renewal, but what you're doing isn't a renewal, that's a maintenance of traditions! That seems to be important to you. You also need to stand for this. You must also be aware of this, although you always claim that you are the ones who know exactly how it goes, where you save where you can make cuts in the administration, that this is not true. Because you do not make any changes, you only create additional costs! No employee in a company could afford this at all, for it would only be a matter of time until its service relationship would be dissolved. If I had done a structural reform in my social project in which I worked, in the way that I would have increased the hourly rates for care instead of changing internally, I would have been sitting on my post for the longest time. Then it would have been only a matter of days, and I should have rightly considered whether I am able to fulfil my task at all. Mr Guggenberger has also said – he is not here now – that there is a great deal of support for this new wave of burden. It's a huge mistake. This agreement is only given by the SPÖ and the ÖVP within this Parliament. I do not want to allow you to read this amount of press releases, which all turn to this new load package. You can't close your eyes and simply ignore all the negative statements that come from doctors' chambers, doctors, individuals, the Chamber of Commerce, and pretend they didn't exist at all. They are obliged to make an offer for the consumer, for the patient, for the sick person, which is still manageable for him. And you are obliged not to reorganise the budget or the health insurance fund by further burdens, at the expense of the Austrians, but to carry out a structural reform from the inside, because then you would definitely have been able to save the Austrians this new load package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10512	Mr Pumberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10534	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Chancellor in absence! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The election posters before the National Council election are still in our best memory, they have already been quoted several times today, I would like to repeat the announcements once again: "I won't allow social weakness no more to afford a doctor!" Or: "I will ensure that there is a fair health reform." - That was on your posters. Federal Chancellor! These are smooth untruths or constituencies, as are the "pensionist letter". If it is so commonplace in the SPÖ that the one who speaks most clearly speaks the most untruth, the one who deceives the voters most, becomes the chancellor, then good night, dear SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "A just health reform" – I haven't seen anything from a reform at all. A reform does not even exist in approaches. Federal Chancellor! Do you understand this under a fair health reform if the care allowance is no longer valorised from 1996 onwards? Is it fair if the pocket money is reduced by 50 percent in the case of home accommodation for those in need? Is it fair to cut the first stage of the care allowance to 2,000 s? Or is it fair if the removal of the care allowance during hospital stays takes place on the second day? Or is it fair if the amount of the allowance in respect of care is lost? Or, Mr Bundeskanzler, is it just that, in the event of rehabilitation stays, so if someone has had a serious accident, is it right to pay for a self-retain? Is it fair if the prescription fee is increased by another 20 percent and people are taxed in addition? Or is it fair if health insurance contributions are selectively increased especially for pensioners, our build-up generation? Or is it fair to remove health certificates, health certificates? Federal Chancellor! But there is no question of justice, of just health reform. In such a sense of justice, I would really make myself my thoughts and generate myself if I represented something like this to the Austrian population as a just health reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What do you think? Your mayor, Häupl, said in Vienna, is also known to you. In tomorrow's "Kurier" Mayor Häupl says the following about these load decisions: One makes it easy and talks exclusively about revenue, even burdening the more socially weak. – This is what SPÖ Mayor Häupl of Vienna says. – The SPÖ has rejected new fees in the 1995 National Council election campaign – he says, and with this he is right, that is the truth, to the difference of what the Federal Chancellor says over and over again – so I mean that you can't do this now and can't do it. Mr. Bundeskanzler, does that give you no thought at all? A country captain, who is just ahead of a country election, says that. And I believe the head of state and mayor of Vienna, Mr Häupl, that he is very worried about the voters who will probably run away in crowds during this election. He's making a theater donner now, which is just a sign so that he can get away with his favorite voters again, but I think the bill won't go up. If he really had a big influence, he would have to say something in the SPÖ, which he always suggests, then he could have prevented this load package. He is also supported by the socialist state partyobmann of Upper Austria, by state councillor Fritz Hochmair, who also says: In the planned form, we will certainly not be able to accept this renovation package. – SPÖ-LandesPartei Obmann and Landesrat Hochmair from Upper Austria. So these are clear rejections of high-ranking members of the party to this tax package, and I believe that we liberals are not alone with this criticism, we have support from large parts of the ÖVP, from large parts of the SPÖ and, above all, from most of the Austrians who share our concerns about this tax package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have already made proposals as to how to save. And I'm sure you still have the 13th. June in memory, when, with an urgent request, we made the unbeing in the healing aid to the prangler. This really gave rise to an uproar in Austria, and the bandagists had to think about it, including the main association of social security funds; the director and his deputy were personally present. Now the people are driving from the main association, from the insurance companies, and they are sure that the patients have actually received the branded products that have been charged to the cash registers. So, within the last two weeks, a lot has already happened, and much more will be done in this sector of healing aid. I read something about the ÖVP at a press conference on 26 May. June has been announced, and there you write what you have already achieved and what is now being done: There will now be a freezing of tariffs for bandagists. You attach this to your own flags. That saves 82 million schilling. And that's where it's going. A 10% reduction in the cost of healing will save a further 60 million schilling, and a further 10 percent reduction in the cost of relief next year – 60 million schilling again. Ladies and gentlemen! Our urgent request from the 13th century. June – and this is what the ÖVP calculates here – has already brought 202 million schillings to savings. I am very glad we did. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is here with a good example, innovating this idea, and has demonstrated to you, on the basis of a number of articles, that overprices are charged to the cash registers. A unanimous decision by all five political groups represented in Parliament leads to a review of this issue, and I am convinced that even more than the 202 million schillings announced by the EIA are inside. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The next hammer after the cures – and that's about a little larger amounts – are the medicines. Bundesobmann Dr. Haider said last time: Saving 20 percent of these 17 billion schilling costs for cures and cures brings 3.4 billion schilling. This would remove the entire deficit in 1996 from all the cash registers with a strike. And there were critical voices: That's another milkmaid bill. The reliefs account for only 1.9 billion schilling – what about the 15,1 billion schilling? – He has noticed – and I have said that exactly in my ear: Medicines and cures. I am going to demonstrate to you today the cures, because in the case of the cures charged to the cash registers, the cost is currently about 15 billion schilling per year. There has been an increase of 50 percent since 1990, from then 10 billion to now 15 billion schilling. However, medications have not been prescribed during this period. There have been approximately the same number, about 92 million, drug packs per year, both in 1990 and 1995. So it can't be said that the doctors have prescribed as wild, or the patients have become a generation of drug swallows. It is only the price of the individual medications that made the total cost of medicinal products so rapid. And these drug prices have not yet been considered by the main association and the social minister as the top supervisory authority, as the top supervisory body at all. You haven't been asked yet: Why do these prices rise so exorbitantly? And the Federal Chancellor does not come up with any proposals at all, he says only that everything is in vain, we push the citizens off a little more, and that is what has already been done. Because Mr Peter is just coming in: I took note of the fact that you are refusing the 50 S health certificate tax. But in a television show "To the cause" about a year ago, you asked to cancel 300 s for a health certificate. I've got that right in my ear. 300 S requires the Liberal Forum per health certificate if the health certificate is only worth 180 S! But these are the Liberal Forum reform proposals. That's just so by the way. [[Abg. May. Peter: It is too difficult for me to make an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go ahead!]] I'm going to take out the Rabl's "to cause" mission. I'm sure you can still hear it. There is a lot to save on medicines. I ask you to be careful now, because my savings package is so high, without the patient even having a tablet that he absolutely needs for his health, that the 1.2 billion schilling that is still missing, which is why this package had to be decided to be exceeded by 100 per cent. A total of 2.5 billion schilling absolute minimum savings only for medicinal products are linked to these proposals for reform, which I would like to put to the vote in a motion for a resolution. And these 2.5 billion schillings are as follows: One has already said to Mrs Povysil: The 981 doctors who run house pharmacies are forced not to buy directly at wholesale, but to buy a pharmacy in wholesale or owned by wholesalers. You can buy from any pharmacy, but it is always a pharmacy that is owned by the wholesale. In fact, the pharmacy is delivered and advised by the wholesale. However, the wholesale price is 10 percent home pharmacies supplement, and this 10 percent could benefit the health insurance companies if the doctors could shop directly at the wholesale. With 981 house pharmacies with an estimated average annual turnover of 3 million schillings, around 3 billion schillings represent sales, and 10 percent of house pharmacies supplement is a savings of 300 million schillings at this point. This is a saving that does not hurt anyone, and not even the sick Austrian fellow citizens. That is why this 300 million schilling is an essential necessity that we can bring to social health insurance for the restoration of their maritime funds. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point would be the reduction of the average margin in the wholesale. Although there has been a wholesale tension reduction a year ago, the margins are still relatively high – they are up to 100 percent. The average span, which is degressive depending on the price of the goods, is reported by the wholesale itself by 9.1 to 16.7 percent. If you cut this span again because the wholesale is certainly not bad by only 0.5 percent, then that would bring a saving of 500 million schilling. Point three: As a homeopathic doctor, the discount is very well known to me. Officially, they don't exist. Each pharmaceutical company is able to give high discounts to pharmacies and pharmacies-leading doctors. And only these discounts, if you use 10 percent discount, make up a total savings of 1.6 billion schilling. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, you can give your assent to this motion for a resolution with good conscience. I am convinced that this will help to guarantee high savings of at least 2.5 billion schilling even in the pharmaceutical sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And I would like to conclude by saying something about the miscarriage of the health insurance companies, which have long since ceased to fulfil their service assignment: They pay only about 40 percent for hospitals. With medicines, self retention now increases from 24 to 31 percent at 42 S prescription fee. A third of all medicines are already sold by self-medication. Keep saying and writing for the cash register of all medicines in Austria that need patients, only more than 50 percent who pay the checkout. Thus the supply order is far from fulfilled. 31 per cent of self retention due to prescription fees are too much, and I ask you to: Take back this burden package, consider these new savings proposals with us freely, and I can assure you that we will not be able to burden anyone with our savings proposals and increase the supply to the citizens as before! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10662	The motion for a resolution drawn up by Mr Pumberger is sufficiently supported. He is involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10687	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Nothing would be more tempting than to address the many speeches that have occurred in the course of today's debate. But I would not, of course, be able to express and say what I actually did to help in this debate. But maybe some things. In Styria, Mr President, there is a reduction in employment, which would be 40 per cent in benefits to election doctors. To this end, I must say that the Contracting Doctors from the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse – 930 in number – are so burdened and the Styrian population is so cared for that we do not have the concern. Why, then, should a patient go to an election doctor if he still has a 20 percent retention to carry? I'm sure that's not the case. But at the end of the day, Mr. Dr. Pumberger was at the speaker's desk, and I think he's in the health committee, and he's got a lot of things going on there. We've passed a federal welfare law, and half the world envys us because we have it. We introduced it with 1. In July 1993, with the enormous cost of 8 billion schilling. We have now reached federal contributions of 17 billion Schilling and country contributions of around 5 billion Schilling. However, neither must taxpayers try to finance this alone, because the insurance contributions were raised at the time. Finally, this benefits more than 300 000 Austrians. – Please note! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Dr. Pumberger certainly knows far better than I do, for he had a few weeks ago at a meeting here – if I remember correctly – on the table. However, Mr Guggenberger then corrected a number of points which had been pointed out in relation to the Vienna regional health insurance fund. The F movement has operated here on facts that are not facts, and has put patients at risk who have had nothing to do with them at all. It is said that nothing has happened in the health reform sector. I think it's just the last months that show where it's going. Power financing will be introduced throughout Austria, there will be a large-scale equipment and a health care plan and more different others. Today, mayor Häupl was repeatedly quoted as a social democratic mayor and country representative by the liberals – and also Fritz Hochmair from Upper Austria. There is already one point to this: I do not think that there is so much naïveness to Mr Pumberger that he does not know: If it is opportunistic and if there is an election campaign in the countries, then one is sent away from the others. The same applies to Members of Parliament Pavkovicz in Vienna, who also has an election campaign. At the end of the day, I am also confident that election effects will also be introduced into this House and that much of the campaign tactics and campaigning will be offered here today. The beginning of today's debate, Dr. Ofner, has given me a very thoughtful vote, because you have made the attempt to show in a very serious way how our ancestors have shown respect for the elders among us in the interwar period – for example, we have lived – have grown up, what they have participated in, what conditions they then entered the Second Republic in 1945 and have found freedom again. Many of those who were in childhood and youth at the time have experienced what it means to live in a socially non-governmental state. With 1.6 million self-employed workers – now we have almost twice as much – there have been 600,000 unemployed, and these 600,000 unemployed have been expelled after a certain period of time. If you ask the young people today what they mean, they don't know what to do with it. That means they are standing without any schilling – the schilling already existed at the time –. One cannot shift back to this time, but one should say that to youth, and we hope that it will not come into the situation of ever having to experience it. We should see what we can enjoy now in a completely different light. We just need to see the developments of recent years: We have developed from a social state to a welfare state and a welfare society. The development of this social state over the last 50 years has been based on a number of premises, namely: There is always economic growth – experiences of the meantime show that there is not always –, a balanced relationship between contributors and recipients – even there is no longer and will not always exist –, the type of person concerned: male industrial worker, working for 40 to 45 years and only 10 to 15 years in retirement. It's all been moved. There is now a longer training, shorter working time and a longer use of care in old age. It has also been assumed from unpaid women's work, from women as the attachment of a system in which there was no right to social security. This please are developments over the last 50 years that we have participated in and experienced in Austria, which we do not want to discuss away and not let ourselves be discussed away. The other European social security systems also have the same concerns as ours, namely that there will always be transfers, but the redistribution effect is relatively low. In terms of schilling, she makes up 18 to 20 groschen in Germany and Austria, but in Sweden – with different experiences and results – 30 to 40 groschen. Today we have changed framework conditions, long-term growth crises, demographic change, we have to live with migration, increasing women's work and rising unemployment. More and more is required for the state to withdraw. The interests of job owners are played against the interests of the unemployed, and it is very often said that: If you are not willing to work on these conditions – I have enough others in hand. What has previously been called the unemployment reserve is being used. So there are phenomena that, if one wants to express it sharply, could be crises of the social state, namely the lack of a general political debate on the social state. We usually discuss him only if there is any opportunistic cause and nothing else; why social state, the role of federal government, countries, private initiatives? There is an economic crisis that we cannot deny. Wage labour and social security are very closely linked, but more consumption of social benefits no longer means that can be converted into productivity. But there are also social changes and a social crisis, which is least perceived – it is then perceived when the discussion is about social smarotzer, and there is the discourse very strong – and a diffuse discomfort in a system with which one is not sufficiently identified. The question arises again and again: Instead of managing unemployment, how can they be transformed into socially meaningful and necessary activities? Many then raise the question of whether the social state is going to retire with this generation, which is now on retirement or leaving. That would be a bad end if this generation agreement between young and old stopped if the one in employment no longer applied the same for those who are no longer in employment, as it has been the case for many years and decades. Let me say something about some social reform measures. Tax reductions and social offensives have not been fully contributed by the poor international development of the economy. There was a loss of revenue, and the expenditure dynamics must be inhibited. We have to implement the consolidation volume of 100 billion schilling – and this is not possible without tangible measures. The main priority for us is always a socially balanced system with a fair participation of all groups of the population and the protection of the weak, an active employment policy, a stronger consideration of this insurance month in determining the benefit of unemployment social security and an equivalence of the measures in all old-age insurance schemes. What is being said again and again, what is being changed, for example, is to increase the retirement age for women and men, but most of it is not at all true. There's only one thing we can say: Something will change for future pensioners. But remember the many years of screaming that we have always been the world champions at early pensions, that we already have the people at 51, 52, 53 years of retirement. However, it does not consider how many, at this age, are forced by the economy into unemployment and invalidity pension without going voluntarily. A request here also criticised the fact that health care and rehabilitation are before retirement: Yes, please, what better can be done than a person, even before he retires, to offer the possibility of regaining his health, that he may perform it as healthyly as possible. Finally, a word as a pensioner: The pensioners have since 1985 contributed more than 200 billion to the consolidation programme of the Austrian State budget through the measures of pension reforms, through the savings package II in 1996, the zero round of pensions in 1997. That is why I am saying this number so that it is not always the impression that only several other professional groups have contributed to the savings package and that the older generation does not do so. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why is she being taxed again?]] There are discussions between young and old, where it is even found that the older generation is not sufficiently burdened. I think it will not be overburdened if it now has to swallow the 0.25% increase in health insurance contributions. That wasn't our intention, not our idea. We wanted to have other solutions, but we did not get through with this because our coalition partner said that any other solution would also increase the additional wage costs. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Nice excuses! It's the ÖVP's fault again! You are responsible for the good!]] That's the reason. But one thing I have to say: With this increase, we have no joy – that would be even more beautiful if I said that – but we understand it because there are no health insurance fees on the other hand and no such fees on the pensioners. I often wonder: What has been your contribution, as an applicant for this urgent request, in this country to the consolidation of the state budget, to consolidation and to the reforms in the hospital system? What have you contributed so far? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We made bad proposals!]] Dr. Haider! We know that you made 453 000 S out of the Bearental in connection with your mandate three years ago. That's your contribution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10761	Mrs Apfelbeck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10782	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! How to deal with the money of the contributors, I would like to tell you by means of two examples, namely the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse and the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. The Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse (Stiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse) has only one vote against in its cash control assembly – and that was on 19th. December 1994 – the purchase of the Friedrichgasse property by 24.8 million decided to build a new administrative building. At one of the following meetings, the construction was then decided with almost 300 million Schilling, one of the participants giving his prior consent to the following points and then leaving the meeting. I'm taking away the "Little Newspaper" of 24. In June the building was cancelled or suspended and 800 square meters of office premises were rented instead. At the construction site worth 24.8 million Schilling, parking is now rented by 500 s to employees of the local health insurance fund. – At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you sell health certificates to the sick by 50 p. 3 115 square meters, you calculate the access routes, a maximum of 200 parking spaces. If you rent these 200 parking spaces, the monthly 100 000 s and in the year 1.2 million schilling. In 20,6 years the purchase price would have been reduced. But the bill is not correct because the 24.8 million schillings were not paid with the money reserves, but the local health insurance fund has developed a minus of over 500 million schillings, as I take away the newspapers. The real estate price to be paid by the sick to the health insurance fund is not amortized if you charge kindly among friends, even in 25 years. Another example of the Steermärkische Landeskrankenkasse: The blinds in the ambulatory, which were purchased with 1.1 million schilling, had already devoured 1.6 million schilling costs after the warranty period of three years. And the list could be continued at any time: the special contracts; the officer is appointed as head, with the A- or B-test, simply passed to him; Pension percentages are higher than usual, they account for more than 80 percent and more, some even up to 106 percent; the settlement is 12 months, although officials are not allowed to pay. But the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has also succeeded in maintaining the mining industry for decades. Of 42 mandates in the service of the cash offices, only two mandates were shortened, who had never been present at the cash desk at all. All others should not develop economic disadvantages through the exercise of a public mandate. – Ladies and gentlemen, this will certainly be a pleasure to the contributors, who are now sold by 50 s. A complete reduction did not intend the cash desk. If you want, I can also give you the two names. It is Mr. Landtagsreiter Otto Weinberger, who is at the same time mayor, and Mr. Mayor Franz Heilmann. These two will continue to be on the salary list of the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, without ever taking a grip on it. The reasons for this are as follows: The mandates would have to bear party charges, club contributions and other advertising costs anyway. And that is why they are not deducted, so they are paid off the entire wage, although they do not provide any work at the health insurance institution. I ask you if this will be understood by the contributors to whom you increase the prescription fees from 35 S to 42 S and sell the health certificate by 50 S. Ladies and gentlemen, I doubt that. Since the employees of the Upper Austrian Regional Health Fund are apparently not being overly stressed in the service, they also rarely need vacation. The holiday claims are therefore usually paid off financially – on the upper floor, of course. For example, an employee received for 133 unconsumed holiday days 173 926 S. Another employee received 231 903 S for 128 days, another for 165 days 282 680 S. And in two cases more than 340 000 S had to be paid, plus 12 months' settlement, as they subsequently retired. If the money is not enough, you can increase the prescription fees and sell the health certificates to the patients. The label of a refined Bonzentum in the privileged sum represents the supplements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thus, those in the foreign service have a right to an allowance if they are not employed in the foreign service, but at the service shed or in their home community. The justification of the cashier is as follows: This will compensate for the lack of entitlement to travel fees. So whoever of you, ladies and gentlemen here in the High House, has no right to any travel fees, he will simply report to the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. This would be a reason to offer you an allowance as compensation. The local health insurance fund increases the prescription fees and sells the health certificates to the sick. A striking example of this endless self-service from the payer's pocket provides a symposium in which several leading employees – only such ones come to enjoy – visited the French Riviera. The speakers were all from the Austrian social sector. In other words, the Austrian audience was transported to the French Riviera at Austrian costs to attend a typical Upper Austrian symposium. – Ladies and gentlemen, the contributors will certainly be pleased, especially in view of the fact that the health certificate will now be sold to them by 50 s. Since the cash registers have large amounts of money with which they are not careful and not at all economical, they pay compensation to the health care providers each year if these hospitals receive too few patients from them. Another example: In the early task of building rights, the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse could transfer 2.5 million instead of the 9.6 million schilling from the Chamber for Workers and Employees, which was contractually guaranteed. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, that the patients who now have to buy their health certificate by 50 s and the drug prescription by 42 s have a right to demand from the Chamber of Labour that they take over their health certificate and prescription fee to the full or to the limit of 7.1 million schilling. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another proposal, Mr State Secretary: Sale They are not the health certificates to the sick, but the managers of the Upper Austrian District Hospital to the Chamber of Workers. In any event, it owes millions out of the pockets of the contributors, but do not burden the contributors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10858	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10879	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The reduction in pensions over the past few years, says the net adjustment, which each pensioner in principle brings by half a percent less of the pension every year, which in six years accounts for about 10 percent less of the pension, continues. The increase in pensions in 1996 brought a percentage increase of 2.3 percent. However, for those pensioners who receive a low pension – an average pension after ASVG is approximately 10 594 S – this is a drop on the hot stone. However, there are also pensioners who receive a pension of approximately 3 000 s. These have received only 65 s per month in the course of this 2.3 per cent wage increase a year ago, which is certainly a joke. An increase in base amounts would certainly benefit the pensioners of small pensions. But what do you do now? – I recall our Chancellor’s statement, in times of advertising for EU accession: The upswing must benefit everyone. This upturn is basically a downturn. He does not benefit anyone and hits the weakest among the weak. As a contribution to fiscal consolidation, an increase in pensions for 1997 is to be suspended at all, and for the lower part, an increase in the base amount is planned, a staggering. However, this is so low that single pensioners with a pension of 8 887 S and above will no longer receive a base amount. If they lie below, they get 500 S. If someone receives only 7 887 S, he gets a base amount of 2,000 S. In principle, that is nothing at all. It is also true of married couples. If two people receive a pension of 12 753 S, they will no longer receive a base amount. Ladies and gentlemen! This is particularly true of this group of people. And if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic says: I will not allow existing pensions to be reduced, so that is certainly absurd. He also said that women's rights should not be affected. I would like to remind you that the birth grant by 1. January 1997 and leave is also reduced from two years to one and a half years. That arrangement that the spouse can go in Karenz for another half a year will hardly be used in the current economic situation in Austria. ==References== In August, health insurance contributions for pensioners are also to be increased by a quarter, i.e. from 3.5 percent to 3.75%. That's supposed to bring 530 million schilling. In principle, there is no big upgrade. In addition, the recipe fee, which has been increased each year in recent years, is increased by 7 S. At the expense of the people involved in low incomes and the needy, virtually 400 million schilling will be saved. I recall what the Social Democratic Party, in particular, voted for in the election campaign, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was put on with the following statement: I will ensure that there is a fair health reform and no increase in contributions until all other measures are used up. He doesn't think it's self-abstained either. – Now we have the right to stay with the health certificates. 50 s per health certificate should be collected. However, the debate on the nature of this survey is also very grotesque. Ladies and gentlemen! Is the employer supposed to collect this fee now? It is said that they agreed that the employer should withdraw them. The employers are still resisting this bureaucracy. Is she supposed to pick up the doctor? Or should you do this with stamp marks? . I do not understand at all that the idea of stamp marks is re-established, where they have only recently been abolished at the car tax. No one's curious about these brand adhesives. I believe that there are many other areas where there is sufficient potential for savings. In the event of curing and rehabilitation, people are also thrown out, because we know from written inquiries to the relevant Minister of Social Affairs, which group of persons takes the most advantage of spa stays and rehabilitations. – These are people from the protected area, then only the self-employed and employees come, then the workers and farmers. I am concerned that exactly those persons who receive a low income but who have the hardest work to do will be able to do the least spa stays. A person who gets a higher relationship does not hurt at all if he pays a certain amount of self retention per day; one who has a low income will not be able to go on a cure. The largest grotesque during the spa stays, Mr. State Secretary, is as follows: If, according to today's practice, someone who is already in retirement requests one, he will not receive it if he has not been in employment before because of the same thing on spa. This is certainly an abuse that has been lifted. People in need of a cure should also be able to enjoy the pension without being forced to go on a cure as long as they are still in the work process. I hope that I will not encounter deaf ears in your presence; please pass this on to the Council of Ministers, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is also to be feared that hospital hospitals will continue to be very frequented by the planned collection of this health certificate fee. We will bring patients less into practical and professional practices, but they will continue to migrate to the hospitals. I think it would be useful to finally extend and legitimize group practices so that they can work more cost-effectively and treat the patient accordingly in order to get people out of the more expensive hospitals. A reform of social security institutions has been announced over and over again. Small approaches have been made, but a truly fundamental reform of social security institutions has not yet been achieved. We have always been committed to the fact that there should be a combination of the 28 social security institutions, but no discussion has yet been made about this. The abuses in the pricing of the cures, in the pricing of the medications are great. Here is a savings potential of about 17 billion schilling. In the case of trade routes, there would be much more to save than these measures that are now being put in place here. But these things, ladies and gentlemen, are not even spoken of.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10949	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10971	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer here. He has given his word donation – that is a typical one again – and his disinterest shows that he has disappeared like an actor after his role was over. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] He's probably already drinking his beer, and we're still talking and worrying about the problems of our citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I like to go to the theatre, I have to say that, but I know what I expect, namely a piece written by an author who escaped his imagination, and the actors of course identify with this written piece. The better they identify with it, the better they are and the more successful they are. What the Federal Chancellor has offered us here on the government bank today was really a ready-to-eat idea or a post that is looking for the same. I didn't object to this, but the chancellor has recorded a fantasy formation here today, a balled load of word play, twists and word-clauses that would have really made fun of every stage – only the place was the wrong one. He should have gone two streets, to the theater in Josefstadt, where he would have found an audience who would have laughed at his stories he told today, there would have been the right place and the right place for them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There his statements had also been given the right priority, because they had contributed to popular pleasure. But here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, to have to listen to something like that, I have to say that. This fills me with anger, because I believe that from the government bank to make such claims before elected representatives of the people, is really all kinds of things. Of course, the Chancellor has made his promises to the 1995 election campaign known on his election campaign tour at election talks. – My God, hardly any escapes, has forgotten it again. But he went on to hold them even in writing – today it has already been mentioned several times – in the letter of 7. In December 1995, my parents, by the way, also received them. They are already very well-dated, but still not in retirement. I wonder, Where did he get the address? – They were neither close to SPÖ, nor are they in retirement, nor are they entitled to vote in this place where they received this letter. So the excuse that the chancellor once needed, that he had read it from the electoral directory... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Where is the data protection?]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schlögl: I don't know your parents!]] Thank God! The addresses cannot therefore have been taken from the electoral evidence sheet! I wonder where the data protection remains. This is proof of this: They have not been reported where they received the letter, they have not been to the Socialist Party, nor will they be in the future, nor are they in retirement. I'm really wondering: How did you get to my parents' address? The letter was addressed to both, both of which were first names on it! That's horrible! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's what the big brother does!]] That's what the big brother does! A true word! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Rasterfähnung!]] So in this letter you have recorded this in writing. Mr Chancellor said today that he did not change any of the existing pensions. That's not true at all, because the pensioners have failed the annual adjustment, they just didn't get it. That is, they have weakened the purchasing power of pensioners for the percentage of the annual inflation. So the chancellor took away 3 percent of purchasing power from the pensioner! There's no way to say: I've kept my election promises! That's incredible! He is degrading this Parliament to a stage on which he believes he can say what he wants, and it simply cannot be allowed to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you come now with the objection of the single payment for pensioners, that's ridiculous. I don't want to mention this sum here at all because it's a drop on the hot stone that's evaporating again. [[Abg. Aumayr: Not even!]] Not even that, exactly. It has also been said by the Chancellor today that he has not intervened in existing pensions. I just disproved him. He intervened in existing pensions by not paying off the inflation rate and thus weakening purchasing power. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But just not in his!]] That's clear! Not in his eyes! We're on stage. He thinks that's all theatre. He also said that small corrections were necessary for future pensions, i.e. for future pensioners. I quote from his letter: Today, there is a beautiful barrage for those who enjoy their deserved retirement or are already looking forward to it. – That is, he has also promised stability in this letter to future pensioners. This is black on white. With the phrase section "or look forward to it" he also meant those who want to retire in the future. They wrote: "who are looking forward to it". In other words, those who wait for their pension due to reduced employment must wait two years longer, others must wait by five years due to the increase in the necessary insurance periods for the early pension. So they can look forward to it for a longer period of five years? This is a joke if it has been said today that existing pensions do not intervene and if future pensions require small corrections. That is really all kinds of things! So do those two and a half years have to look forward to retiring from 35 to 37,5 years of early retirement due to the increase in the necessary periods of insurance for early retirement? – They can look forward to their pension for two and a half years! I believe that there has been an upsurge in the people, and that should be true public opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, not only today, but also then, the chancellor sold the recipient of this letter for stupid purposes and presented him with an X for a U. That's fact! But I think the pensioners and the people who have read this letter – these were also the family members who are still employees; the pensioners usually have children who are still in the work process, they have also read this letter; that was a snowball effect – know exactly what they are supposed to keep from the words of our chancellor: quickly promised, quickly broken! - There's no more in there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Ofner has today designated Mayor Häupl as the first witness to the pension lie. The previous interviews speak volumes, and also in tomorrow's "Kurier" you can read about it again. It has already been quoted a few times today, but one cannot quote it often enough, because it must be broken on the tongue. There the chancellor sits and says he didn't burden the socially weak, he kept his election promises. His party friend and colleague, who is naturally under pressure because of the Wiener Landtagswahlen, but in the morning newspaper, he reaffirms once again his statement, saying that it is easy to do so and only talk about revenue and even burdened the socially more weak. What's going on now? – Today we have heard, the socially weak he has not burdened, he has kept his election promises, and on the same day his mayor, his party colleague, gives an interview and says that we are not burdening the socially weak now. I already know why this is so, but I don't know if the population is still familiar with it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's it! Or he says: "The SPÖ" – and thus actually the untruth is documented – "has rejected new fees in the 1995 National Council election campaign" – that is, the election promises are still very good in his ears. – "That's why I mean," says Häupl, "that you can't do that now." – The chancellor is thus accused by his own party friend of untruth, in all public. And hopefully the public understands that too. Today we really got a play from the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Schmierentheater!]] I am very sorry to have quoted the theatre in Josefstadt. If you say "Schmierentheater" now, that's the correct expression, but not for the theatre in Josefstadt, that's what I want to say. Schmierentheater is really good for what we have been offered here today. The second evidence for these statements of the chancellor is in Upper Austria, in the form of his party friend and Obmann of the SPÖ Group in Upper Austria Fritz Hochmair. This is, of course, under pressure. Next year, the Landtag elections are in Upper Austria, and Mr Fritz Hochmair wants to raise the leadership claim as head of state. He's talking about it all the time. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will certainly be aware of this because it wants to hold its candidates, but that will probably be very difficult. It must, of course, go against this statement of the Bundesline, because otherwise in Upper Austria it has no chance, but absolutely no chance. If he is again burdening the more socially vulnerable, burdening pensioners, burdening families, of course, he has no chance of being elected next time in the country elections. This party chairman of the SPÖ-Oberösterreich even calls for the establishment of a parliamentary subcommittee. Today he asked for that – today! He goes on to say that although the package for the rehabilitation of the health insurance companies is on the table, he cannot accept it so safely. He also says: Instead of seriously thinking about structural reforms... – jobs She thinks, the own party colleague says, structural reforms are inside, they are necessary, and still the chancellor does not respond and says: Everything's all right. That's just to secure the health insurance system. That is why we increase pensioners' contributions by 0.25 percent, so we introduce a health certificate fee. Everything just so that the health system is secured! On the other hand, his colleague in Upper Austria says: It is possible to make structural changes that can cover this deficit. So in the own party of the Social Democrats it is quite well done, and in all public! But that seems It's probably a normal condition! For me, this is a bit strange, because we are discussing it and then we are of an opinion. But with you it is powerful at all corners and ends! If it weren't so serious, ladies and gentlemen, I'd find it funny. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is to say, the Social Democrats are being exposed by their own people. I'll come back to a play again, on the "Phantom of the Opera". Christine then finally rips the larva off the face of the opera, and the phantom disappears into the darkness. – Unfortunately – unfortunately I have to say again now – this will not happen to us! The chancellor will probably not disappear into the darkness, but, as I said, we are not on stage here, we are here in Parliament. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you listen to me, I'm not so sure!]] It is immense how much this proposal will cost the Austrians again. I have a list here, the You yourself sent out yesterday in an APA message that you want to take away 500 million Schilling from the Austrians alone by introducing a health certificate fee. 500 million Schilling want to take the Austrian away by the health certificate fee! Or: They take away the pensioner – quite deciduously – by increasing the amount of 0.25 percent 534 million schilling. - And that's where you say there's nothing going on with the pensions? There will only be a change in the case of future pensions. And now at once, a few months later, take the pensioners away again 534 million schilling! I think that's a scandal! But it's gonna be much better! It's gonna be much better, because you're taking away something from the families. You admitted that yourself. In an APA report, everything is listed from the calculations how you want to clean up this deficit. Here's what it says: By reducing the financing of health insurance funds to 30 percent, you want to win 854 million schillings, i.e. 854 million schillings take away the family compensation fund, i.e. 854 million schillings. Now you have generously approved 600 million instead of the family billion. At the Structural Adjustment Act You said we're doing something for the families anyway, and two months later, you're going to get back to FLAF and clear it out by 854 million schilling. I think that's a scandal to the families! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr State Secretary! Judge the Federal Chancellor that we are not here on a stage. Absolutely not! It was a scandal today! That hit me deeply. As an Austrian citizen, as a parliamentarian, I do not allow myself to say that. That is something that is revised, which we must listen to from the government bank, and it should be pointed out, it should be said what is actually, where even our own party colleagues oppose the chancellor. I think we must not let that happen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Follow the advice from your own circles! If you follow the advice that comes from your own party, namely with regard to the reform of the social security institutions and the stifling of the abuses in the remedies and in the medications, then you do not need to ask pensioners, workers, families and socially weak to cash further!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11170	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11191	Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, the major coalition parties have consistently used the terms "social" and "socially balanced". Whenever the talk of stress was, the words "social" and "socially balanced" have also been followed. There you have really noticed that these words are for you only pure keywords. They have balanced these words socially and socially, which are really supposed to say something, to tags without content. They have only brought these words out when it has, in turn, been a matter of bringing up new burdens for the people so that they can swallow the population more easily. Last but not least, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky was on TV two days ago and once again said: These new burdens are social, and they are socially balanced, and therefore they are reasonable. – You are not afraid of that when you opened up 4 billion schilling to the disabled, which they are supposed to contribute to budget recovery, to speaking of socially balanced. They are not afraid of speaking of social balance when it came to letting the disabled, who are in homes or in institutions, only 500 s of pocket money! This is your opinion of social and social balance! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You believe in red and black, which you have now fled, because obviously the topic is very unpleasant to you, nor that you encounter an understanding of the population! I am convinced that the people will have no understanding at all of your views of social, for your view of what is still to be thought of by citizens. It really does not surprise me that the Federal Chancellor has put this new burden back as socially compatible. He does not think of the families who are very much burdened with the health certificate fee. You have to imagine: Two parents, two children, four people – 200 S per month health certificate fee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kampichler.]] What do you say? Well, with your salary it is probably easy to pay that, but there are families that have to get 15 000 s. [[Abg. Kampichler: Children do not pay a health certificate!]] Now, the recipe fee of 42 s, honourable Member, you also have chronic illness. The cost of travel for the sick who have to drive to the doctor – 42 s costs a ride. Can you imagine what that means to someone who has an average income of 15 000 s and not a national Council income like you? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I don't know. Why Phases You never interrupted anything from the judge? I'm not an investigative judge now, but I'm a politician! Is it not possible for you to remember that I am not in my capacity as a judge here? – I would have expected you to break over as what I am there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] But You don't have to bite in me now! You'd rather get lost in your chancellor Vranitzky, who has expressed this as socially balanced, what you think of the people. Please listen to what Mr Vrannitzky said in May 1996. I believe that you are attacking your head in the face of this. We are also attacking the head when we hear all that the socialist politicians give of themselves. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You may need it!]] Vrannitzky stressed in May that there would be no increase in contributions until all other measures were exhausted. He doesn't think it's self-abstained either. - Please! A health certificate fee is nothing but a right to hold. And I say that you have not exhausted all the measures, ladies and gentlemen. Mr State Secretary! That should also give you reason. I am convinced that there are still many sources that could be used in the social security sector. I am thinking, for example, of the many volunteer officials in the social security sector, whose voluntaryity is that they are paying fees, not small fees. I remember that once again we have addressed a question – which has been a long time ago – to the Minister for Social Affairs Dallinger. He has said that these so-called volunteers are only 11 million schilling anyway, and the highest consideration of a volunteer is about 30,000 S! Why don't you go there and clean it up there? See if it is necessary to pay in the amount of 30,000 s per month for voluntary service fees. You'd have enough to be exhausted, ladies and gentlemen, but before that, press around continuously. You don't develop any fantasies at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] – I miss all measures to delete completely antique possibilities for money for different political officials. Again and again we provide you with advice where you can save anywhere. I would really advise you: Please follow our suggestions, Mr State Secretary! That would really make sense. It's not bad what the opposition says, just because it comes from the opposition. Radiation You do not stop to accept our advice! You see all of this from the party-political eyeglasses. You'll see how you can provide for your police officers. We see this objectively, and we say to you: You can really save a lot of money. – But you always go the easiest way. They get into the citizens' pocket and take out the last bit of money they have left after this load package. And all this under the title: It's all socially balanced! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One would really think that advice given at such a time is being adopted. But it is not, quite the contrary, one goes beyond these advices and proposals. Mr State Secretary! I would like to draw your attention to something. I have once sent a question to the Minister for Social Affairs, which concerns a problem that is serious and in which we can really save money. If a patient goes to the hospital today, is treated outpatiently and receives a prescription from the doctor, you must not believe that he can go directly to the pharmacy and redeem the prescription there. No, he has to go to the doctor and he has to have the prescription rewritten there, then he can only go to the pharmacy and get the medicine. You probably know that this causes quite high costs, because the doctor receives a fee again for nothing, just for rewriting the recipe. The patient acquires unnecessary time and work, he may have to ask someone to go to the pharmacy for him and so on. I have made a request on this point. It would be assumed that the Minister of Social Affairs is taking this seriously and is considering whether something can be changed. However, he did not respond in this way, but he once asked the main association of social security institutions for an opinion. The main association, which does not deal with the money in the back and front, which has 3.5 or 4 billion shilling debts, does not take this opportunity to save money, but leads to all possible reasons why one should continue to stick to this practice. The opinion states: The treatment of a patient is permitted by the family doctor. He must determine which cures he considers necessary to achieve a healing success. – This is entirely beyond the problem, because in the cases I am talking about, the hospital doctor has already decided what to do with medical treatment. So that's totally empty. Furthermore, the opinion of the main association quoted in this reply is written in: It may be possible that the hospital doctors do not take economic moments into account in the prescription because, unlike the contractual doctors, they are not bound by the directives of the main association. Contracting doctors must also act in economic terms. As if the hospital doctor would only prescribe the most expensive drug out of lust and mood, the most uneconomical method would choose! It's really an absolute nonsense to accept such a thing. It also says: It may be that the hospital doctor writes something that is not mentioned in the list of cures of the main association and what the chief medical authorization required. . We already know that this whole chief medical authorisation is already very difficult, that the chief doctors are often sitting there and only giving a stamp on a recipe. One should consider whether one should not save the chief doctors rather than quote them as an argument, as the reason why one does not introduce this simplified form of prescription use. It is truly grotesque that the Minister of Social Affairs continues to insist that prescriptions that prescribe the hospital cannot be used directly at the pharmacy, but must only be prescribed by a doctor and will be paid again. The Minister of Social Affairs says: It's all right, he's totally on the line of the main association. That's what I'm asking myself: Why is not every way to save? – I am convinced that will bring millions of schilling. Look at what's going on in hospitals' ambulances and what doesn't have to be prescribed! Everyone goes away with a prescription in his hand, and each one sucks afterwards to the doctor and can be prescribed. This concerns thousands of people treated in the ambulances. You would do so if you changed something here – I beg you, because you are not out of the department, maybe it could be more likely than someone who might be blind in his place – to help people who have less bureaucratic expenses, and also to the health insurance companies who would not have to pay so many more doctor fees. In any case, we are against the fact that, as before, we continue to operate in such a way that the simplest solution is always used, contributions are increased, self-cost contributions are lifted and nothing else is thought of. We ask you to finally learn to rethink!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11293	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11315	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the increase in health insurance fees, I am in a fairy tale. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky, Mayor Häupl, Vice Chancellor Schüssel, social spokesperson of ÖVP Feurstein – they play in the fairy tale the Bremer city musicians. Everyone screams and no one knows each other anymore. Whoever stands, I leave it to each and every one. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who is the donkey?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't ask him long!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I can easily answer this question. If you have today failed to answer the question raised by the Federal Chancellor, you know that he has said that the health certificate fees have been introduced only because this was the condition of the ÖVP. That was the condition of the ÖVP, and I am sure, Mr Schwarzenberger, before the next election a letter from the Federal Chancellor will go to the voters in which he describes exactly this situation: We, the SPÖ, didn't want these health insurance fees at all, but the ÖVP wanted them, that was their condition. – You will get one on the roof from the ÖVP again, Mr Schwarzenberger, and rightly so. I think that's how I answered your question about who the donkey is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr State Secretary! They are one of the most sympathetic members of the Federal Government. [[Oh, no, no, no,]] It connects me with you a preference, namely the preference for Rapid: But I hope you are as victorious as your favorite team. I think you really have a lot of work. Mr State Secretary! In the insurance companies, in the local health phone, indescribable privilege stories are taking place. Officials of the insurance companies, the local health insurance fund, I say officials... – Well, of course! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: These are not officials!]] What is a health insurance director from a social insurance institution? You don't even know that, Mr. Cot. I'll tell you how it works there: This is an official, but at the same time he is also an ASVG servant. [[Abg. Koppler: What about this one? What about this one?]] At the age of 24 the officials in the social security institutions and the local health telephone are pramatized – after only five years of official activity. You have the cheapest repurchasing rates, and you'll be careful next time, Mr. colleague, so that you won't be so wrong that you say there's no officials there – when they go to retirement, a settlement. [[Abg. Koppler: A pension!]] They'll get a deal, and they'll get an official's pension. Mr State Secretary! There is a waste of money, there is an urgent need for reforms, and that is what you are responsible for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Headmaster.]] A settlement, Mr Koppler, and an official's pension. That is, they have the advantage of the ASVG staff and the advantage of the civil service. You don't even have that as a Central Works Council, do you? [[Abg. Koppler: I have nothing at all!]] High house! I did so in the winter of 1995, which is why I was deeply affected today, so easily going over it and saying that this is only 0.25% for the pensioners – many house visits made, Mr State Secretary! You would be amazed if you would also make house visits in winter, how many pensioners, Mr State Secretary and honourable ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the SPÖ sit in their home in winter in their winter robes because they can no longer afford the heating costs. And then you go so lightly and say, 0.25 percent – what is it? – I really think this is a scandal. I recently attended a meeting in Wartberg, which is in the district of Kirchdorf. Then a 59-year-old woman gave me the letter she received from Dr. Vrannitzky. You already know him. This woman – you will often hear him, Mr. colleague – has raised five children to be diligent, decent people and has cared for her mother for ten years until she died. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] For these benefits to raise five children and to take care of them for ten years, there is no single schilling from the state in this country. And then the Federal Chancellor goes here and writes to this woman the letter that says her pension is secured. [[Call to the liberals: This is a shame!]] Mr State Secretary! This is the white cock to write to a woman that her pension is secured, a woman who has raised five children who has cared for her mother for ten years. She writes to the Federal Chancellor that her pension is insured, but she does not obtain a pension claim through this work. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: As always, the Federal Chancellor is misinformed!]] - Yes, as always. You have to imagine that! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Co-insured housewife!]] Yeah, she's insured with her husband. Women's and family policies in this country look like this. It is the white cock that women who raise children, the only housewives for the socialists, have absolutely no independent social security. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The consequences of this family policy are well known. The mothers must now all go to work, but not from jux and tollery, or because they are so fat at home, but because family income is no longer sufficient by your policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You're in a hurry.]] A learned carpenter – you should be interested in this, Mrs. Dunst, as a socialist – will receive 12 000 S net in the month. A learned hairdresser gets 7 200 S net in the month. Now you want to explain to me, with this salary someone can feed his family. 4000 S to 5 000 S or 6 000 S go for rent, and then go here and increase the energy tax so that living for the families becomes even more expensive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You're in a hurry.]] You have hit the families and especially the women and mothers hardest in your load package, which you call socially balanced. I tell you, there will be a dramatic development in this direction if you continue. But many farmers feel particularly planted, Mr Schwarzenberger! You will certainly have received the letter I also received, namely from the Upper Austrian farmers, from the Committee on Farmers' Committee. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No!]] Don't you know him? – You will soon have the opportunity to decide with us the demands of the Upper Austrian farmers. [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, in particular! Farmers! In 1992 the farmer's pension was introduced – against the votes of the liberals. And we were right because what you decided at the time and promised the farmers is a scandal. It only took four years, and everything is different. They fell on all lines – on all lines! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: When it came to you, the farmers would still not be a pension!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Dr. Strigl, State Director for Social Security in Upper Austria, says: What has been done with the farmers in recent years is an unacceptable zigzag course. The people wish themselves finally calculable conditions, Mr Schwarzenberger! You always scream out and watch out, so please be careful now. They told the farmers in 1992 that their chamber representatives, their social security representatives, should not insist on the exemption, but should continue to pay the 150 percent share because they will then receive their full pension after 120 months. The farmers have followed these advices. And now you go here and increase the insurance months by 50 percent. At five years of age, that is, not ten years, but 15 years, these women, now over 45 years old, have to pay and continue to work. Mr Schwarzenberger! There must be a working group that works hard, such as the farmers who have the worst health status of all the professional groups in Austria, now because of their decisions up to 60. Full-time work. This is a social scandal in this country, which is seeking the same. You are responsible, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Another thing: They treat farmers like third-class people. It is true that farmers have no professional protection. If today a farmer is sick... – I believe that this is very unpleasant to him. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He doesn't want to listen anymore!]] – Mr Schwarzenberger! The farmers have no right to sickness benefit. You have to go to the stable with 38, 39 or 40 degrees of fever; there is no sickness benefit. If the Court has nothing to do with it and if it has to be locked up, as it is because of your policy, there is no unemployment allowance, there is no insurance at all for farmers. But you have been willing to agree, for example, to this scheme with the ancillary farmers. You have to imagine this: The ancillary farmers pay social security contributions and unemployment contributions, and if they are terminated and they have a single value of over 54 000 Schilling, they will not receive an unemployment allowance, Mr Schwarzenberger! They let them pay, but if they are terminated, they do not receive any schilling, while, for example, the prisoners in Austria acquire a right to unemployment benefit with their term of detention, Mr. Schwarzenberger! That's how your social policy looks!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11577	Mr Blünegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11599	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I believe that today's urgent question says that we liberals take it seriously with this health insurance package and do not want to be voted on in this context, but rather to leave time and to find new reforms. I think that the German Chancellor's reply was actually weak, and if you take it very accurately, there were also some false sentences. The idea itself was practically as if we needed an instruction. The burden on pensioners was reduced as if they had no load at all, although they are taxed from 3.5 to 3.75 percent higher. And I believe that the Federal Chancellor's opinion is not correct, who has said that the purchasing power of pensioners would not be depleted. He certainly made false statements. In the same way, if the Federal Chancellor tells my group colleague Dr. Harald Ofners that he does not feel comfortable in our group. I think you can only guess one thing: He is supposed to look with his own friends, in his own group, with the Social Democrats, because some really do not feel well, as evidenced by statements they made. I would like to quote a few, for example, the chairman of the trade union of private workers: "Critically, on Tuesday the president of the trade union of private workers Hans Sallmutter made a statement on the health insurance package. A real reform of the health system is still pending." – This is a good statement from the chairman of this union. Madam President, Mr Hostasch is not here right now, perhaps she is still coming. I would like to convey to her a criticism from Carinthia, which, among other things, has been made by President Josef Quantschnig: "The health insurance package approved by the Council of Ministers does not find the consent of the Chamber of Workers of Carinthia." Oh! "The rehabilitation measures are not socially fair." [[Abg. Koppler: Oh!]] Oh! "Then President Josef Quantschnig stated in his broadcast on Wednesday" [[Abg. Koppler: Oh!]] "They primarily meet workers and pensioners." And you're supposed to want to protect them! There, I think you're not right, Mr Koppler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] "The financial burden of workers had reached the ceiling." – President Quantnig has also said that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that under these conditions it is really not appropriate for the Federal Chancellor to teach us in such a large and nice way that the pensioners do not accept any deterioration. But I think one can now say clearly and clearly: The expected end of 3.6 billion schilling at the local health phone is only unloaded on the back of the insured. This is the preferred course of this federal government. I think she has never seriously thought of reforms that should be introduced. [[Abg. Koppler: make a suggestion!]] I have proposals, among other things. First of all, I will tell you the burden, Mr Koppler, because you will probably not feel that in your high salary, in which you do not have what you think is a jobless income. [[Abg. Koppler: Just like you!]] That's your way, but it's not the way we want it to be. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It does not matter to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. But the little people will feel these measures and these burdens. The pensioners and the skilled workers in Austria will feel that they have a smaller income. The people with big income, who certainly don't feel that. For the recipe fee alone, the additional burden per year is 252 S for a family with two children. I can justify that, on average, a person needs about nine recipes a year. In the case of health certificates, a married couple need an average of between six and seven health certificates and a dental health certificate in one year. This would mean a load of 400 to 450 S for this family. And then you say that the small worker and the pensioner do not feel that? I think your promises are wrong. The Federal Chancellor even wrote me a letter personally, I have already kept this letter before him. It was in March at the budgetary negotiations where I said there was this letter. The first sentence is enough, and it bothers me the most: "Dear family Blünegger! Today, there is a beautiful barrage for those who enjoy the deserved retirement or look forward to it." He says bereavement. I do not need any support from him for what I need to do is that in Austria there is no such mistake that small families and pensioners receive such an act as is the case with this package of measures in today's health insurance debate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I come to the pensioners to talk, then to the area where health insurance contributions have been increased from 3.5 to 3.75 per cent and have gone over the stage in the Council of Ministers. What does this bring back to the individual little earner of burdens? In the case of an average pension of 8 600 S, this is only modest 21 S of additional burden per month, and in the case of a compensation beneficiary, it is only 20 S. No one is taken away, it is claimed, but still something is taken away from everyone. And that's where I ask you: Where's the truth? Or on medical visits: Only more than 80 percent are paid in the case of free choice of doctor. – There, some workers will no longer be able to afford this free choice of doctors because they simply have to save. . I believe that, in this context, this non-social and non-balanced tax package of this government is a consequence. And I would like to ask you, as a Member of the SPÖ and the ÖVP: Where do you have your social conscience? Have you put it on the nail yet? Do we have to investigate where your social conscience is? Why Save You are not in the administrative system, where we have always said that there is a shortage in this area. Does it have to be that there are still health insurance inspectors in the area of the telephone today, Mr Koppler? Does that have to be? Do we need these health insurance inspectors who may only occupy a desk and have no work to do? Is that the right way? I think instead of saving, the social security funds build up their large palaces and simply throw the money down to the official. There are two examples that I can mention here in a calm way. The administrative burden in the health insurance companies increased from 3.18 billion schilling to 3.72 billion schilling from 1992 to 1995. A little thing! [[Abg. Koppeller: How many percent are these in the total?]] I have to calculate that first. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I just want to tell you that this has increased. The percentage is not interesting, but it has increased, and that is the crucial question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not need to mention the eyes of the officials at the management level of the health insurance companies, they will know one or the other, but nevertheless I say it: They move at 1.5 million schilling annually. There you can see how this is in need of reform. Deficiencies are produced, but the insured will pay for it. That is, I believe, the motto of this coalition government. In the private sector, ladies and gentlemen, such shortcomings, which I have pointed out among others, would simply not be possible, because either this company went bankrupt, or the unable managers would have already been sent to the desert. I believe that this would be, among other things, the right area where it could work, because it is nothing but a protected area of red and black. There the party-political clientele is housed, and for this the coalition government is famous and famous. I'm not a social security officer. I was a member of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, and I contributed to that, Mr Koppler, that there was a bit of a table made there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh, oh!]] There were Vice-Presidents who no longer felt comfortable there, and various other things. But this is just free policy, and there these black products, which do not belong to the public, are simply missed out. That, I think, is the right way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser.]] Do we have anything, Mrs. Bauer? [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: I'm fine!]] Not. [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: But your arguments go out to you!]] I'm not looking for my school, I have a job. [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser: Me too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: She's looking for a school!]] She's looking for a school. Somewhere she's a director in a school that doesn't exist anymore. Is it really not anymore? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The school no longer exists!]] This is a disaster. We have to look for the school, too. Not only do we have to look for jobs, but now we have to look for school, which is quite new. As a liberal worker and payer of social security contributions, I naturally ask for the functional fees and the board members: They should not obtain unemployment income, but should be paid only for their function and not for non-performance. I just want to say that. [[Abg. Koppler: You don't know what work and income is!]] Because we know, Mr Koppler, the Gagen. We know the gags of the different local health professionals. You know him yourself. You know at least the gags you should know. You can get out of your gage, you know it, and you know you don't have to work much for it. You've got a chauffeur, too, that's fit, it's all right, good. [[Abg. Koppler: You have to bring that together first!]] But, of course, those who are politically determined and not according to objective criteria, exactly these local health telephone operators deserve, I believe, too much. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are 27 social security funds in Austria, 33 of which are national offices and about 116 of them. In addition – and I may also mention this because it has not yet happened – 111 regional offices of the labour market service, and they are under the same direction as social security. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Secretary of State! The reorganisation of the entire social security system and the health insurance system gives rise to enormous savings. [[Abg. Koppler: Stop!]] I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, including the coalition government, to carry out a fundamental democratization of social security bodies through direct elections by all insured persons and an increase in administrative efficiency. Have the courage for true reforms at last! Don't give up your grains and the privilege industry! Be correct and introduce reforms into social security. This would make all charges, retentions and loads on the back of the insured persons unnecessary. I think I can say one more sentence to President Hostasch: We liberals also put people in the foreground. Support You have our requests for the benefit of the citizens of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11864	Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11885	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The founder of our urgent question, Mr Ofner, has tried to show the links between family policy and social policy on the basis of the generation conflict, and I would like to add a little more. Even if it is not en vogue in Austria to describe family policy as a population policy, one cannot really disappear over it: Family policy is population policy, and social policy has to deal with the consequences of missing family policy. Social policy is a consequence of family policy or family policy, as is currently the case in Austria. The Federal Chancellor has today or in recent times, I would say, added a new image to his image of a healing world that he always tries to convey to us, namely that of the healing family. It is relatively new to him, and he certainly does not do this unconsciously. He does so because he knows that 75 percent of Austrians want a healthy family for themselves, because the Austrian simply likes to see it. But he forgets one thing: that especially the Austrian families are exposed to an increasing risk of poverty and that 5 percent of all Austrian families – and therefore no more marginality – are seriously affected. It is especially the multi-child families that are the losers in our system. That is to say, in the area of family policy and social policy, there is not enough to counter this development, otherwise, in the end, there could be no such impact. Yes, I even say that this development has been favoured. This is confirmed by the 1991 Constitutional Court's judgment that the now forced form of individual taxation, which, above all, the Social Democrats are talking about, is very discriminated against families with children in the taxation of children and that, on the other hand, the promotions that are always so much appreciated are not effective enough. The Federal Chancellor is, of course, also responsible for this course as the head of the government, even if it was always the ÖVP ministers who gave this course. In recent years, the Austrian family policy has really exhausted itself in the management of the family compensation fund, and it has done so badly. The family compensation fund has become more and more a self-service shop for non-domestic services. He has had to keep up with the budget reorganisation of pension insurance, for budget recovery in the case of unemployment insurance, and now he has to believe in it for the sick. We all know, however, that it can only be a short-term reorganisation and that the next meeting in this area is imminent and is already foreseeable, because what we are now selling as a reform is de facto none. It's a scrapping action. It is a further scrapping action, because reforms have always been promised, both in the social field and in the health sector, but of course also in the area of the family compensation fund, but they are probably not implemented, so that the fund continues to be available to stop budget holes. Today, in our documents, we have found a government template to amend the family allowance law, which is directly linked to these deteriorations in the social field. I really feel it's a joke that's been led there: Alternative: none. So there seems to be really no alternative to turning out another 800 million schillings of family funds, from dedicated funds to rehabilitating other budget areas. The attention is a very bad one, as is most often the case with family topics, but I will not tire it out, yet always point it out. [[Abg. Amon: With you!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is simply a problem of labeling, Mr State Secretary, if, as a compensation for this new scrapping action from 1998 onwards, one considers perhaps a savings in the area of transport associations of 350 million schilling, because this authorisation now granted to the Federal Minister for Youth and Family does not contain any liability, please. This has always shown Austrian family policy, and it is not new either: For five years, the Liberal Party has called for these silent subsidies to be stopped at last. Family funds are not available to quietly subsidise the ÖBB. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And please, the potential for savings in this area lies far more than a billion schilling if you use it, because it is not only the negotiations with the transport associations that are overdue, but you have been starting from a very wrong accounting base for years, from a much too high. You will always charge 60 trips per month per student. When we consider how many school days there are, 20, 22, we know that this basis of calculation is simply overstated. There's no human being talking about that. And here, it seems, you're not ready to save in the future. I would like to remind the Federal Chancellor once again of his constituency: "I will not allow more socially weak to afford a doctor." The most socially weak in Austria are the multiple-child families. These have already been published by the Central Statistical Office before the two savings packages. And these two savings packages have brought 20 percent additional deterioration for families alone in the family load balance. And these deteriorations are still cumulative by other deteriorations, for example in the field of energy taxation, according to the number of heads to be supplied in a family. They seem to forget all of this. If the Federal Chancellor has produced himself today and answered our urgent question with a cynicism and a polemic, then I really must say: Consciousness of responsibility: no, bad conscience: yes. That's the explanation for me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, the increase in drug charges. Of course, families with several children will also be affected more than single-earners. The health insurance companies have already pulled the emergency brake in another area. In three federal states, for example, the period of application of the sickness benefit was reduced. But not only that: In Tyrol, one is now on the verge of removing the family allowance for sickness benefit. There is here a resolution of the Catholic family association that no one has responded to. Apparently, we were the only liberals again. There you would like to remove secretly a favor that you have previously granted to sick family owners according to the heads of the children to be cared for. I called the Tirol County Hospital and asked to what extent this is really up-to-date. Mr Hollaus has confirmed this to me, and has argued in this way: It has so far been a voluntary service, and the financial situation of the cash offices no longer allows it to continue to provide this voluntary service. – But this, of course, will meet families with several children again cumulatively. It is clear to me that it is not a problem for the Federal Chancellor whether he or his daughter can afford children. For us, which we sit here and yet all earn relatively well, it will not be either. But it is simply a fact that in the future more and more Austrians will have to consider whether they can afford to become a child or another child. For it is not for nothing that the Constitutional Court's judgment has confirmed that there is a discriminatory maltreatment between child-educated and non-children in Austria. The official data of the Central Statistical Office also confirmed the first Austrian poverty conference. It has confirmed that multichild families are the losers in our society. But this seems to be the goal of Austrian family policy. It is only me, as a liberal, that I vehemently oppose the fact that precisely those who provide immensely unpaid benefits to the society of this state by being willing to raise children are increasingly and more and more over-proportionalally asked to cash out. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is the wrong way, and I ask you finally to wake up and stop taking this path. This is the wrong way in family policy, and it is also the wrong way in social policy. And my call here is not only to the government bank, but also to the representatives of the two government parties. I would really ask you to leave this course at last and do more for Austria's families with children.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11950	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11971	Mr. State Secretary! High house! Today's debate and the Federal Chancellor's behaviour have revealed a lot. The polemics, nervousness, yes, the aggression he recently showed shows that this riveted package seems to be in the hands of massive resistance in its own party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Many critics have already been quoted in the debate today. I'm saving myself adding more quotes. But there may also be something else: that Mr Chancellor knows exactly that the package now bound will by far not be enough to cover the exit in the cash registers. And this also confirms the statement of the director of the Carinthian District Hospital, Director Wurzer, who meant yesterday in a television interview, in his cash register last year a hole of 400 million schillings. But this package does not bring in the expected 400 million schillings, but it will take only 70 million schillings. This means, for example, that the local health insurance fund Carinthia still has to expect 370 million schillings to end. And that's why I guarantee you: We are just talking about the beginning of a measure that you will continue. This package will not remain the only package, but there will be a package II and probably a package III, ladies and gentlemen. There is no need to be an expert to predict this, because the reforms are in fact not taking place. In essence, only new burdens and increases in contributions will be invented, and these so-called reforms are really going to go empty. Because in the protected areas you have done almost nothing or nothing at all. I would like to show this by an example, an example which is now the political issue of number one in my home district, because people are outraged, also about the way in which the political leaders are doing. There is in us a very well-respected hospital operated by a religious order. This hospital is well known beyond our district boundaries and enjoys an excellent reputation. There is of course also a gynecology and a birthplace at this hospital. This birthplace is gladly accepted and, as can easily be proved, it is efficient and cheap from its operations, but still has an enormously high medical quality. And because there is such a high medical quality, the stay in this hospital is also a very short one. There are also highly qualified doctors in this hospital who have brought international fame with a special method of surgery. Cancer surgery is being performed here and, of course, cancer operations in women who have abdominal cancer. This hospital and, above all, the medical services at this hospital are even praised by the Surgical University Hospital of the General Hospital of the City of Vienna. University Professor Dr. Raimund Jakesh writes: "The surgical and oncological results are, as often published, of excellent quality and enjoy international reputation." This well-run hospital has also aroused the attention of the then Minister of Health, Extraserwinkler, who recommended in a study to expand the Gynaecological Department and the birthplace of the Hospital of St. Veit, because there is excellent work being done. In the Austrian Hospital Plan, whose inventor is an outsider, it is also recommended to extend this birthplace. – The advice of the then Minister of Health of Ausserwinkler was also followed by the competent authorities of the hospital, and the country of Carinthia also entered co-financing, so that a construction with a total of 150 million schillings was started. The construction cranes are already standing, it is invested. But the Minister of Health, who recommended the expansion of this hospital a few years ago, then moved to Carinthia. And now he wants to close this birth department and the gynecological department, and he also wants to stop the construction. – This shows the chaotic health policy of this Federal Government and those responsible in this field, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This led the mayor of this city, who is also a social democrat, to seriously consider whether he should not leave the party because he does not want to live on with this chaos, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This also led the primary doctor, who performs these excellent services in the hospital, to send a letter – I would like to say almost: a call for help – to those responsible. In an open letter to the former Minister of Health, Ausserwinkler, he writes: You have occurred, you have been known to friends of the time – Vrannitzky had his greatest political depth – to want to carry respectability and honesty into politics. Poor friend! You failed, not you personally, no, but your refreshing ideals. – This shows the disappointment that is also evident among the experts in this hospital on health policy in Austria. He goes on to say that he is aware of what act of strength he is doing. It is in fact – he writes – the first step in the destruction of a hospital, which, in such an embarrassment, has now pre-examinated the health care officer in Carinthia over a decade, how, with the most minimal financial and technical resources, one can carry out a technically and scientifically recognized national and internationally recognized medicine, while safeguarding human dignity and affection. He writes: Instead of imitating and learning, one has decided, driven by interventionists, intrigues, by mammary envys, for the typical Carinthian way: to destroy what must not be. I believe that this is not necessarily a typical Carinthian path, but rather a symbol of the way in which politics in Austria as a whole goes: The fact is that there is nothing going to be done where reforms should take place, and where exemplary institutions exist, things will be smashed. – With this policy you can and will certainly not be able to solve the dilemma around the health insurance companies!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12062	Member of the European Parliament. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12085	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the cooperative! At the end of this debate, please explain to me the following: Since the quarter before five, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has explained to the House that everything is socially balanced, that all of this is to be accounted for before 17.12.1995, in view of the socialists' election promises. Your own top candidate in Vienna, your comrade Häupl, says today – I hope you have already read the tomorrow "Kurier" already distributed today – I quote: "You make it easy and talk exclusively about revenue and even burden the more socially weak." – But you say all day: All this is not true! We tell you all day that your measures are socially unbalanced and socially unacceptable. They claim: That's not true! However, their own top-ranking candidate in Vienna explains the opposite. – Ladies and gentlemen! So explain to me why your top candidate, Häupl, can say today that all this – I quote literally – is "an immense nonsense". – No speaker of the Liberal Group has used sometime this afternoon for what you have negotiated with the ÖVP, like your top candidate Mayor Häupl, who says: It's a horrendous nonsense! Ladies and gentlemen! We have not yet given a single example of what Mayor Häupl called today regarding his stepfather. Ladies and gentlemen! Mayor Häupl describes today that his stepfather – I know, Mr Guggenberger will say again that this is not true! – is almost 80 years old and needs a wheelchair to say and write 75 000 S and that even he, Mayor Häupl, has doubts about whether this wheelchair...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12115	I would like to ask for a little more attention for the speaker! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12137	I can imagine that! Just as you did not find any words on the Rostra in Vienna's Landtag today, so try to avoid this debate here too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All the big Bonzens and Abkassiers, as they sit in there, are a sense with the Abkassiers on the government bank, ladies and gentlemen, High House, with the Abkassier Vranitzky, who has his own pension contract with the Landesbank over a pension in millions. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And of course he will consume this pension, ladies and gentlemen, even if it is disputed in the public! Mr Kostelka! You are of a sense – even if you have disputed it on the show "For business" – with the discharge millionaire Vrannitzky. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: In contrast to you, I have renounced my!]] You're one of those: You cash your unemployed income at the level of a salary that many Austrians do not even earn for working, by means of the "Höchtln". You should be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's why you don't care about the social concerns of the Austrian pensioners, ladies and gentlemen. Because the chancellor's spouse, the wife's managing director of the company Normalia, probably... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Of course you're an excavator! Mr President. That's incredible! Mr President. This gentleman there in blue is one of the biggest excavators!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12208	I can ask the House for a little more attention and discipline!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12246	One of the biggest Abcassiers of this House allows itself to practice criticism at the Presidency because he is not able to... [[Further call of the Abg. Eder.]] You did just that because you are not able to make yourself strong in a social debate for the pensioners of this country, as the mayor of Vienna does! You would probably get the red card from your own clubman! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has proved today that pension reduction, pension reduction and golf play are no contradiction. – That would probably be the way Mrs. Chancellor would express it. What do pensioners also need to have pension increases? They're supposed to go golf, that's much healthier than a pension increase! That's why the company Normalia is also industrious in the magazine of the golf players, in the "golf revue", ladies and gentlemen, High House! There, the company Normalia switches a full-page listing at the expense of the contributors. Because, as we know, even at the company Normalia, you are not squeaky! In this listing, it says: "Be on in a special class golf shoe." – This is not a sleep of the way Mr Pumberger showed him the last time! "Be on in a special class golf shoe: frame sewn, upper and lining made of soft, breathable leather, developed according to orthopaedic aspects. The first step towards a better handicap." – Ladies and gentlemen! Company Normalia! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! This handicap, which the company Normalia finances in full-page listings with the funds of the contributors, has to bear the taxpayers in Austria! – In this exclusive association the Mr. Schwager of the Federal Chancellor also works through the company Normalia! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Deputy Director of the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has described the circumstances why this sleep – Member of the Nürnberg said that it is so expensive to handle baths. On Tuesday this week, Director-General Dr. Popper, in a round of negotiations at the Landeskrankenkasse in Linz, explained why the price for these drops was so high with 12 714 S: To prevent them from seeing that they are so expensive, they have been processed so cheaply. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's the overclou! The company Normalia has not even come to this end! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They tarry a sleep as cheap patches, demand 12 700 s, and the overclou is then that you explain that this is a camouflage, so that people do not see that he has cost 12 714 s! Ladies and gentlemen! How stupid do you think the Austrians? – Then it is not surprising if the Federal Chancellor makes the following statement in front of the House – I wrote down this sentence because I thought I was not hearing it right –: In the health insurance reform, we have ensured that the reforms in the health insurance system are being addressed. . So you have ensured in the reform that the reforms of the health insurance companies are being addressed! And these reforms then represent themselves in such a way that the company Normalia is also actively involved! I'm not going to get around talking about this ARGE orthopedics again. Where is Mr. Cot stupid? . Mr Drimal, in a letter to all the parliamentary clubs, says that this is an official advisory body of the federal innung, i.e. the Federal Chamber of Commerce. And this ARGE Orthopedics became – and this is in stark contradiction with what the Minister of Social Affairs said last time – why I really suspected that this man did not know what was happening in his ministry – in agreement with the main association. This is stated in the letter, which has been made confidential as an internal communication to my colleagues. In this ARGE orthopedics, therefore, is not only the brother-in-law of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and is careful to ensure that the tariffs are not too low and that expensive sleeps are paid that are camouflaged as cheap sleeps. Ladies and gentlemen! In this ARGE orthopaedic, Mr. Gerd Ivanic is also an official consultant to the Bundesinnung, although this man has not even finished the professional training! He is an official advisor to the Federal Chamber of Commerce, although he has not even finished the professional training! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, members of the board are also Mr. Commercial Councillor Hans Radl, probably a good acquaintance of all the chambermen here in the House, as well as a certain Mr. Goldner, who is nothing but another technical employee of the company Radl. In fact, the son-in-law, the wheel itself and his employees are the ARGE orthopedics for which the German Chancellor's brother-in-law works. The ARGE Orthopedics has already withdrawn contributions in 1994 that have been transferred to Mr Ivanic's private account. This ARGE Orthopedics has already been active in 1994 and has requested contributions and set time limits for the deposit of these contributions. This ARGE orthopaedic was founded and registered as an association, but only on the 12th. October 1995! For a year, therefore, one has collected without this ARGE of Orthopedics being the legal personality of civil rights at all. And this ARGE orthopaedic is, as the association's statutes show, a very exclusive association in which, as I said, one can't repeat it often enough, too, the family of the Federal Chancellor. Mr Puttinger! In this ARGE Orthopedics is also a good friend of yours, Mr. Gerhard Lambert, former innkeeper of the Orthopäden in Salzburg, you probably know him well! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Lambert is a socialist, a comrade!]] Oh, he's a comrade, too? – But that’s the nice thing about meeting up: Red and black are united in the sharing of the funds so that at the expense of the contributors.... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Your entire Federal Chamber of Commerce is sitting in there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why Mr Stumpfully is constantly being told that you should be quiet, because this ARGE orthopaedics has been formed according to the method of the pharmaceutical advisory board. We will examine whether the Federal Minister, who is also working in the pharmaceutical industry, benefits in a similar way from this Committee on Medicinal Products and its responsibility, as is obviously the case with the family of Mr Bundeskanzler. Ladies and gentlemen! That's how it works. And the most beautiful of all is the company construction that is behind these companies Lambert and Medisan HandelsgmbH so much preferred by the ARGE Orthopedics. Ladies and gentlemen! We have found out – the Federal Minister has not yet come to this point – that behind this company Medisan is ultimately located in an incredibly complicated relationship and partnership between companies a company Arsmed Holding AG and this company Arsmed Holding AG has its address at a certain Mr. Markus Dudler in Zug, that is in the district of Zurich Land. In this place Zug you can find at least 12 addresses at every farmhouse, ladies and gentlemen, it is a letterbox paradise. These companies exist there only as postal addresses. And so it turns out that behind all the relationships of the highly-inhabited companies of Mr. Radl, the friends of Professor Kristen and Mr. Ivanic, is ultimately the company Arsmed, a letterbox company in Switzerland! These are honourable friends of the Vranitzky family, who probably play all the golf and who can all afford a hand sewn sleep, which you can also see, no matter how much it costs. That's the scandal! They are not willing to explain these things as the mayor of the city of Vienna demands today. He says literally that he believes very well that in the load package there are also large chunks of the healing aids that can be explained. And the mayor himself gives the example with the wheelchair, which is supposed to cost 75 000 S to the mayor's stepfather! And these excessive tariffs and surcharge rates flow into dark channels, into a company bond that is hidden behind the ARGE orthopedics. Mr State Secretary! I think you are one of the relatively reasonable ones of this federal government, and therefore I invite you to participate in this hectic of the ARGE Orthopedics, in representation of the Federal Chancellor, whom I consider to be engaged in because of family ties. [[Abg. Koppler: Don't accept the invitation!]] I myself will be careful to be able to participate. ==References== At 6.30 p.m. on July 18, the ARGE Orthopedics will finally bring light to the perplexed dark of the relations around Professor Kristen, Mr Lambert of the SPÖ and Radl of the ÖVP. In the end, they think they want to explain that these companies serve only for the benefit of the contributors, taking into account their wallets. One wants to make sure that the sleeps are not too expensive; the company Normalia will save herself from the mouth of Mrs Christine Vrnitzky – and from the donations of Mr. Baumeister Lugner – so that she can pay the ads, ladies and gentlemen, High House! Because you will not be able to explain anyone in Austria,...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12348	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12363	You will not be able to explain to anyone why you don't clean up in this spot and instead the contributions of the contributors and pensioners will go up!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12393	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12415	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have just spoken briefly to Members of Parliament who have been dealing with a regional hospital that is doing a good job in our district. But before I deal briefly with the St. Veit Hospital, I would like to make a comment on my previous speaker, Mr Stadler. – Member of the Stadler has once again put the chancellor’s Landesbank-pension into play under the protection of immunity – as we are used to by the Freemans in general – although he knows exactly that it does not behave the way it is here again and again and again, as it always is presented in the media. These claims are always made under the cover of immunity. It is, however, the untruth, even if it is repeated ten times here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're going to lose your desk, Mrs. Mertel!]] Mr Stadler! You have once yourself as the Doberman of the Freedom Party or... [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You'll wonder!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12467	I call Mr Leikam. Please pay attention to this! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12483	Mr Stadler! They have once called themselves Dobermann of the Freeman or Dobermann of the Partyman Haider. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's just a pinsher!]] However, what you have offered here can only be valued in such a way that you probably have the mouthpiece of a Doberman, but only the brain of a dazzle. Otherwise, I can't judge that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few sentences to the hospital St. Veit. I agree with Mr Reichhold when he says that the hospital of St. Veit, above all the birthplace there, has a very good name. Many women come to this hospital from far outside the district borders. But it is once again played this typical double game of the liberals. – Dr. Michael Ausserwinkler is now the health representative of the country of Carinthia. We all know that there is a need for reform in the health care sector. The municipalities are moaning under the financial burden, and it is clear that hospital financing cannot continue to date. Therefore, as a health referent, extra-winker is required to think about what can be improved or changed at the hospitals in Carinthia, without the quality... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Salzl.]] You may know yourself in Burgenland, but not in Carinthia! Furthermore, you are a veterinarian and, when it comes to the birthplace, you really cannot discuss it! Don't be mad at me! Stay with your animals and leave the hospital St. Veit! You don't know each other. [[Complementary and intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Take care of Dobermen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And for Pinscher!]] Dr. Michael Ausserwinkler as a health representative must deal with this situation. It must be discussed with those responsible for the health services concerned. He needs to talk to the mayors. And he does. The fact is that there are three birth stations 40 kilometres away from each other: in Friesach, in St. Veit and in Klagenfurt. So if you think about what you can change in this area without reducing quality, then that is quite legitimate and even required. The double game, Mr Haider, which I mentioned at first, is that the health reform initiated by Dr Michael Ausserwinkler is approved by your party friends in the Landtag and is even praised by Mr Strutz, but on the other hand, if measures are taken, they are fought in public with demonstrations and so on. – This is not an honest policy! But we didn't expect such a one from you either. The difference is that we have to make policies that are reality-related, while you can put demands into space without ever having to realize them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the hospital of St. Veit a few words: The loud cry, Mr Reichhold, does not help. I was very pleased, however, that mayor Mock, who has just quoted parliamentarian Reichhold here, was the one who has prevented parliamentarian Reichhold from playing a political game at a press conference called by him by asking him to leave the room. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And he's leaving the party!]] I think this is very correct, because Mayor Mock is fighting to keep his hospital out of the honest intention of keeping the birthplace in St. Veit. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But he leaves the party!]] He's been revoking that for a long time! Parliamentary Reichhold is also fighting for the hospital of St. Veit, but not to get the station, but to bring back party-political small money! – This is the difference to mention here! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I say it again: Sound screaming doesn't help. What is necessary in St. Veit? – This has already been initiated by Dr. Michael Ausserwinkler: Close cooperation with the Friesach Hospital will be established to ensure that the birth centre can remain in St. Veit and Friesach will receive a midwives station. Because both are important: Friesach is especially important for the Styrian region, for Murau and the Neumarkt district; and in St. Veit is now the most popular birthplace in the country of Carinthia. This cooperation will give us a chance to move forward. Second point: There must be an overall plan for the Carinthian hospitals. Everything else doesn't make sense. This is also handled in this respect by the health professional, and the first steps have already been taken. The question of the location has also been clearly and clearly resolved by him. What is constantly being brought into the discussion by the liberals is that it is now a station, but perhaps the whole hospital has to be closed in the future, is panic and does not correspond to reality. Rather, there is a clear statement that the Hospital of St. Veit and the Friesach Hospital remain. We should work together on these tasks to do the best possible for our district and for our hospitals. And there's no point in making credit assignments with a loud scream. This does not help anyone, even the women who go to these hospitals and are well treated there.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12614	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. – Please respect the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12639	High house! Mr Leikam, one of the "Höchtler" of this House, has just said wrongfully that I would have said the untruth in connection with the discharge of the Federal Chancellor and his pension claim to the Landesbank. In fact, I may quote as follows: In the contract of service of Dr. Vrannitzky of 18.11.1981 with the Landesbank, it is stated under point VI that for all the claims of Dr. Vrannitzky all service times starting from 1st. ==References====External links==* Official website Point VIII of this Treaty provides for a settlement of 14 monthly salaries. In accordance with the letter of 16 June, the Federal Chancellor made 14 monthly salaries. August 1985...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12664	The honourable Member thus quotes and disproves the claim he wishes to reject. This is in line with business rules.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12703	That's embarrassing to you, I'm clear. The Federal Chancellor actually filed this discharge in the amount of about 4 million Schilling in August 1985. Furthermore, the Federal Chancellor...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12727	Excuse me, Mr Deputies, are you still quoting, or are these further findings?
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12742	I quote: In addition, Mr Bundeskanzler has collected the amount of 300 000 S at the National Bank and 800 000 S at the CA. According to point X of this contract, the Federal Chancellor has a life-long pension entitlement of 16 months for a bank director in addition to his Chancellor's pension of 140 000 S: That is 200 000 a month, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12782	Mr Mag. Stadler has his response due to a quote... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I think it's business rules. [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: That's unheard of! This presidency is scandalous! That's a scandal! There was the head of gold against it! Inconceivable! What kind of president is that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the SPÖ.]] [[SP members leave the meeting room.]] Mr Dr. Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12835	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: What is this president?]] In any case, it is very interesting...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12868	Mr deputies, you are on the floor. If you use it, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12883	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12943	Mr Stadler on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12970	Mr President. I urge you, in the face of a honourable Member's evident attempt to influence your presidency, to leave the Presidency to interrupt a ten-minute session.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13006	I call Mr Haider. Please, honourable Member, if you continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13021	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13051	For business treatment: Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13084	Mr President. Since it has now been introduced into the Rules of Procedure that we can also report to the Rules of Procedure during the speeches, I shall also report during the debate. I hope many do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13114	Mr Haider has not actually begun! Please, if you are actually starting with your speech, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13139	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to get back to the subject. I would ask Mr Leikam to understand when I tell him that it was totally pointless to argue why the St. Veit birth centre should be closed. For in the negotiations, a compromise was reached yesterday that the St. Veit birth centre would not be closed. This result is both a merit of the freedom of intervention and, above all, a merit of the mayor of St. Veit, who threatened to withdraw from the Socialist Group. However, it is also a merit of the primary Dr. Jatzko, who, as a member of the Social Democratic Party and medical director of this hospital, wrote an open letter to Mr. Ausserwinkler, in which he made it clear to him that in the last ten years this hospital had proved to be only 50 percent of the costs incurred in the Landeskrankenhaus Klagenfurt for an equivalent department. This is the reason why smaller hospitals should be closed before the Austrian health care plan enters into force, because with the introduction of the cost bill it would be possible to prove that smaller and private hospitals work much more cost-effectively. It seems to me, therefore, that a Member here is defending something which cannot be defended and could even be prevented by the intervention of the liberals with the help of his own social democratic officials at local and district level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Seidinger of the Social Democrats has made a truly remarkable speech today. I listened with great joy to him because he gave a very basic opinion on the problems of the social state. We liberals, ladies and gentlemen, point out the problems of the social state – for example, the question of overstretched trades in cures and cures – and everyone in the social democrats and in particular the workers' chamber and office officials know that we are right. But Mr Guggenberger goes out today and says - I have chosen his protocol - that this case, which we last described, is not true of a man who is so ill that he needs a decibitus mattress. This is a mattress that is prescribed for someone when he is heavy-stoppered, constantly bedridden and therefore must be stored especially. He has thus said that all this is wrong with this decubitus mattress of this patient – we have presented this case with the order here – because the trust doctor of the Vienna regional health fund has been with this patient. – You have to imagine that! We didn't mention the patient's name! He was researched and visited this man in a political commission with the trust doctor of the Vienna regional health fund. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Archipelago GULAG!]] What does Mr Guggenberger say then? And I really ask you to listen to me now, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy, because if you don't generate for what happened, then I don't know if there can still be a human level of conversation in this House. Mr Guggenberger comes to the speaker's desk and says: We have found – you hear and marvel! – that the insured person has not suffered a stroke, as shown on one of the three certificates of regulation, or that he is inability to move. He needs, as our representative could hardly find out, not even a floor, let alone a sick chair. The trust doctor of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse examined the patient with his consent and determined the age according to a "very good state of health". – This was the statement of Mr Guggenberger today. I'm in possession of this man's health history and have now been "translated" by our doctors. I note here for the Minutes: This man suffers from chronic fever disease, Parkinson's disease, and chronic high blood pressure and has severe prostate surgery due to prostate cancer. It also has an artificial output through the belly, for which it has to take appropriate precautions. – Mr Guggenberger, however, comes out here and actually has the forehead to say, contrary to the unfortunate state of this person: He doesn't even need a decibitus mattress. We have found that his health is flawless. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's social, isn't it?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Guggenberger! They themselves are active in the field of social assistance. If you have a spark moral, come out here and take back what you said, because that's a huge piggy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's a huge piggy! [[Call to the liberals: He should be ashamed!]] There is – because the liberals prove how the patients are called – an 80-year-old hard-stoppered man who is suffering from cancer is afflicted and healthyly stamped so that Mr. Guggenberger can make the claim here that everything that the liberals say is wrong. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I will show you the order, ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends, of 11th. June 1996, stamped by the chief physician of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: Dr Gabriela Rubey – stamped! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Stasi!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Chief Doctor!]] This certificate was issued by Dr. med. Hans Bendl, who examined the patient and gave him this regulation. You can't, just because it's unpleasant that the liberals have shown something, come here and put on the back of a dead man such a primitive way of reasoning! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can remind you that you are the one who has turned to the newspapers and talked about how little humanity there is in politics. If this is your humanity, Mr Guggenberger, your attitude, with which you are dealing with the people, then social democracy has taken place in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger and other calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Guggenberger! If you really have some format, then come Get out of here and take it back! We have the health story here, we have the health report here, we have the documents here! What else do you want to say? If I didn't get an order call, I'd say, They are a brutal liar on the back of people, a brutal liar on the back of people who are devoted to death! [[New calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a joke that you have even gone!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] If I didn't get an order call, I'd say!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13300	It wasn't audible to me, but I'll see the minutes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Please, continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13330	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Principal Dr. Poigenfürst of the General Insurance Institute, which is also your party friend, spoke on television about the "hygienic pigry" which is listed here in the review of this regulation and the decubitus product delivered. And you'd have to sue that! I also believe that this procedure demasks all those who are trying to change their political little money here in the house. Try to understand what is done to these people by putting them on the prange just because they dared to point out an inhuman situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want anyone to see him in such a state of illness as the patient who reported to us. I also do not wish you, Mr Guggenberger, that you are in a situation where your case moves someone and you are then persecuted by a merciless social security bureaucracy, where the comrades say that we must not let the liberals show us that we are calculating 1,200 per cent of the trading margin here. Mr Vrannitzky must now introduce higher health insurance contributions to the pensioners with his required hospital package! In the case of an election doctor, the costs are only 80 percent borne by the health insurance fund. The recipe fee must be increased, Stomakranke should use a kitchen role, because hygienic tuppers are no longer available, during spa stays and rehabilitation stays from now on also income weak must pay a holding of 180 s. Ladies and gentlemen! We have insisted that there are possibilities... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Yes, my dear Mrs Mertel! I know, main thing. As an unemployed income worker, you have your sheep in the dry! That's why you don't care about people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You don't care about people! You have everything in the dry. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Huber.]] Mrs. Colleague! Why, then, do the local health telephone directors say today about this alleged superpackage that we have here, in the "Salzburger Nachrichten": absolutely unsatisfactory, not thought through? That's what the red health insurance directors say. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] There are no liberals there, because a freeman has no chance there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Moralapostel!]] Don't think about it. Why, then, does a health insurance director say that it would be useful to introduce the administrative reform in social security first? Today, Mr. Mayor Häupl speaks for the merger of the 28 social security institutions before asking the people to cash out. If I said so, it would be interpreted as populism. But now Häupl reads you the Levites. A local health phone director says: First, you should use the computer capacities. Today, one of the presidents of the Pension Insurance Institute of the workers writes that a non-public tendering and free-standing award for a new computer system in the worker-pension insurance system – which is finally about 30 million schilling – has just been made and that a decentralized computer hardware and software award will be awarded in the next few days at the EDV of the Pensions Insurance Institute of Workers. Siemens-Nixdorf is back in line – as a good friend of the house, as a farm supplier of the red half of this republic. That's what your own people write. Your own owners of pension insurance are already upset by the maladministrations. And that's what we wanted to make clear to you. You're going an unsocial path here. This not only says Häupl, that is not just the health insurance directors, that says not only the workers' chamber president Quantsnig in Carinthia, but that is what we liberals have rightly said for many weeks. They simply go the way to get people into their pockets instead of resorting to the reforms where money would be available: the trading margins, the cures, the healing aids, the closed society and the commissions. Ladies and gentlemen! What do you want? What else are you doing? Provisions are paid for 1.6 billion schilling for special cures. 1.6 billion schilling! Wouldn't it be necessary to save once at this point before you put up an increase to the little pensioner in order to get 500 million schilling out again? I believe that we have rightly intervened here. And that was also the thought expressed by Mr Seidinger today. ==References== May 1996 promised: First of all, all other measures must be exhausted, then you can talk about increases in contributions. – He did that on 29 October. May be said. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] They're not exhausted, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13436	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13451	Ladies and gentlemen! The measures are not exhausted. As long as there are in social insurance in 28 institutions 204 Directors-General and Directors and 1 000 officials of Red and Black who have up to 60...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13469	The remaining speaking time is 27 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13485	As long as there are, ladies and gentlemen, you can scream and intervene as much as you want! We will tell the people that you don't care about the active people! The main thing, the officials have their loins, the main thing, the beans can survive! And once again you get the hard-working people in the bag!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13515	Mr Nürnberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13536	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of information, and I have to predict that we are talking about the same patient, Mr Haider, I can say that at the last session of Parliament, in the course of the urgent question, I guaranteed myself to help to raise these matters of Enlightenment. I have been handed over certificates of regulations on which the name was painted, but the supplier company... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's not the case! This is not the case here!]] I have expressly said that I now assume that it is the same patient. That will be objectively recognizable! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I mean the patient who gets the order of the shoe, and the order from this cancerized patient!]] I got it from Mr Stadler. I can show you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I can show you what I've got in my pocket. By the engineer Frühwald... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! – I confess that it may not be the same patient, we will clarify that. [[Call to the Freeman: It's not the same patient!]] It's about the patient who's been visited. Only one patient has been visited. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What Guggenberger said is a cancer-surgical patient!]] No, no! So hear what's coming! And it will be decided tomorrow whether it is the same. The company Frühwald, which delivered it, took place at the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse on 19 February. June announced that it – the company must know! – contacted the patients by telephone and told him that he had never received the reliefs that had been shown in Parliament. ==References== June have a trusted doctor and an administrative employee – not immeasurably! – in order to be able to provide immediate help, visit the patient because he did not have the relief – provided that it is true what was said. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Awesome!]] I am now quoting the opinion of the trusted doctor. [[Call to the Freeman: It's an 80-year-old man!]] It turned out that the insured person has not suffered a stroke, as shown on one of the three certificates of regulation, or that he is inability to move. He needs, as our representatives can easily see, not even a floor, let alone a chair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] The insured person also states that he has not been with his family doctor and therefore has not received a certificate of order. He had never taken these items and was never at the company Frühwald. There are certificates of succession with the fake signature of the insured person and of the 11th anniversary. ==References== [[Abg. Leikam: This is the true scandal!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is assured that he does not need these remedies either. I quote: "Our trusted doctor examines the patient with his consent and determines one according to the age according to quite good health condition. The insured person also shows him his findings. The insured person also states that he has not consulted his family doctor recently." I have the right to inform the House that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse - due to this case - has been reimbursed to the public prosecutor's office. Now to the shoe, Dr. Haider: The shoe you have presented here in Parliament is not that shoe mentioned in the letter of pension insurance which you took out. This shoe was still at the orthopaedics until two or three days ago and has not yet been delivered.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13688	Mr Haider has reported on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13712	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we can clarify things. – Mr Nürnberger, stay there! [[Abg. Leikam: Signature faked!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The claim that this is a patient who, according to the report of the local health insurance doctor, is healthy according to age is incorrect. This patient was not with the house doctor, but was in the hospital. He's got a serious cancer operation behind him. This is also reflected in the present medical history, which I am ready to hand over to you, Mr President. [[Abg. Huber: Which hospital was that in? The doctor must be able to prescribe that! The doctor was in the hospital?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Very "social"!]] Yes, at Wilhelminenspital, Mrs. Colleague. All the documents are here. In the Wilhelminen hospital it will probably be...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13776	Mr Haider! I would ask you to present the facts to be corrected and to compare them with those which have been corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13792	There is no doubt, in the light of the Vienna regional health insurance scheme, that it is stamped both by the trust doctor and by the chief physician on 11 October. It was approved by Paul Bstand Ges.m.b.H. – Bandagen – Orthopedicie, 1170 Vienna, on 12. June 1996, and by Dr. med. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is obviously another case!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: These are two different cases, clearly!]] Hans Bendl, 1160 Vienna, Stöberplatz 4 was exhibited. ==References== It also adopted the relevant regulations on June 1996. I note that the attempt to...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13834	Deputies! There is nothing to be said about it, but there are facts to be compared!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13850	Mr President. I'd be glad if you were always that exact.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13880	This actual correction has been completed. Mr Pumberger has reported on another actual correction. I'll give him the word. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The Rules of Procedure apply also to the Haider!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: The sister's shoe!]] Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13932	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger claimed that the shoe shown in Parliament in the value of 12 714 S was not the shoe on which the invoice was issued. I am correct that this shoe had the value of 12 714 s that the same shoe has already been made four times at the same price, every half year with the same patient, and the amount, or invoice, of which you have spoken, is already the invoice for the next shoe, for the next half-year – again worth 12 714 s. The entire staff of the old age home receives the same shoe twice a year by 12 714 s, which is about 300 000 s per year. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is a confirmation!]] The shoe, however, has only a representative value of about 2,000 to 3,000 s and has been made so cheap so that one does not look at it as expensive as it is. After a round table at the Oberösterreich District Hospital on Tuesday morning, the Director-General explained to me: The art, such a Make shoes so that they don't look at him that he's so expensive, makes him so expensive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13981	Next word: Mr Kostelka. Speaking time 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14002	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few minutes, some things have happened that you can't pass over in this house. For the first time, Professor Brauneder, it is really unique for me to interrupt a speaker to give the floor to business. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He wasn't talking yet!]] Look at the Rules of Procedure! You have the right to postpone this business treatment until the end of the debate, but not to interrupt a speaker. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you making a public affair out of it?! They're playing!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Talk about it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] But what I really want to do with you as a scientist concerns something else. You have the indebtedness to let someone speak at the actual correction, on the grounds that it is a quote! Professor Brauneder! They know that a quote must be something to be understood. – However, what has been read here is a passage from a contract that no one knows in this house. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That's not a quote! It is an immeasurable fact that in this context you even support allegations which are not understandable in this room. This is an advance for your own group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What about your unemployed income?]] [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] What really impressed me very much was, ladies and gentlemen, with what unfrozenness, with which of course a group of this House is awakened out here with closure acts, with contracts which no one knows and which no one can have and with health stories. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mise Schnüffler are you! As in the communist system!]] If you do not really notice that you claim to have medical stories in your hand – that is, highly personal documents – if on the other hand, however, you are completely anonymized by someone in this house – without hurting anyone’s privacy – the evidence of counter-recognition, you are horrified at once. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Miese Schnüffler!]] Then, all of a sudden, privacy is broken. – Do you know what that is? It's not just unfrozenness, it's hypocrisy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Miese Schnüffler!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A small "F-ler" sits in every Austrian household and writes good and nice with it. I can already imagine why you're doing all this. The indifference is, in particular, that you are making immunizations here, that you are claiming things here, knowing that you are able to repeat untruths again and again, with reference to a quote here in this House and the protocol of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So that we can lay your sniffers the craft! Like Communism! Heavy sick people are being persecuted! Stasi-Kostelka!]] That's the community! You're still guilty of any evidence! It is completely indifferent to you whether what you say is true or not! You want to arouse emotions in a very specific context, and that is what you do with all the consequence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Their playful interest in the decent, brave, small Austrians, the group of large-scale industrialists, the large-scale landowners and the million-scale brokers, does not lose any interest. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] For you, this little Austrian, the average earner, is nothing but a game ball. And the Austrians have you on the 17th. In December, an answer was given.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14194	I'm interrupting the session for a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14227	I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall now end this debate properly. Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14257	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, Mr President, we will continue this debate properly, if this is difficult after the word by Dr. Kostelka. Mr Kostelka! You can't insult me and us. You can't insult us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! If you have spoken so disdainfully of "big landowners" and "million brokers", true to the old socialist motto: Possessing is theft, then you probably made bonds to the left of the former Soviet Union! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! I tell you in peace – not excited, but outraged about your speech – the following: I, Helmut Haigermoser, apprentice, worker, employee, self-employed, need not let me be insulted by you as one who, when quoting the newspapers, only "socked off"! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm telling you this with all the clarity: I'm not being lured out of the reserve! But one is to be said, Mr Kostelka: It is not about business relations, which may not be placed there or there alone for their own sakes, but about law and justice. The point is that those hard-earned schillings that are paid by the hard-working Austrians in the social pot flow back to where they came from, Mr. Col. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason and many other reasons, we have often advocated adequate health reform with requests. And not only are we talking about it, but all of them are spoken of. You in your socialist coalition have always objected that the whole thing has to fail that the respective Minister of Health has no competence. This pingpong game, Mr Kostelka, has, however, been more than seen by the population. This is why the matter has to be illuminated, namely the way in which maladministration is shown and displayed. However, you have done nothing but distract, and you are not willing to stop abuse. – This is the qualitative difference between our statements and yours, Mr Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We don't want a marod system. And that this system is a marod, the words testify, for example, if you do not take note of the words of any other, the mayor's head. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm now making a swing to the Austrian People's Party. Today you from the Austrian People's Party have had yourself washed off the German Chancellor almost verbally, ladies and gentlemen, as if you were the social dumping company. That may be your thing. But you should also consider how long you are still making the outrages of Mr Kostelka the robbers, ladies and gentlemen. If you have spoken, Mr Kostelka, of "ordinary choice of speech", you should keep in mind a mirror. "Smell" is the most gentle term for your power expressions! However, you have remained guilty of every single evidence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's true of you!]] They've started an unsuitable distraction maneuver. They've remained guilty of all the evidence of the opposite. They have not made a single suggestion on how to improve the marode health system. The only thing that came to your mind was how you can continue to disassemble. But the population is increasingly aware of where it is well lifted, not in the social democracy, but in the liberal movement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14335	The next speech is by Mr Scheibner. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka's remarks have moved me to take the floor once again. You smile, Mr. Klubobmann! I would, however, like to stress that you have dealt with a elected President. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: However!]] However, you have forgotten to say what happened here a few minutes ago when the President-in-Office, Brauneder, had the Presidency, who should also be your authority, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] He should also be an authority for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. If you, Mr Nürnberger, take the constitutional bodies seriously, then you have to consider, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, what it means when a Member of your group calls on this elected institution of the Republic of Austria to disappear from the Bureau and set up its presidency, Mr Kostelka! What is this in the eyes of a constitutional judge, ladies and gentlemen? – In any case, there is no democratic behaviour that could be expected from a representative of this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If democracy in this House is so important to you, then you cannot always approve of all that is right for you, and all that is unpleasant to you, then suddenly fight in a way that is really unworthy of a democrat, Mr Kostelka! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Dear friend! You're too young to be able to judge the SPÖ standardity!]] Mr Kostelka! They say that we are dealing with closing acts here. – With which closing acts? We have "handled" with documents – according to your way of expression – that the citizens concerned have provided to us themselves. Because these citizens see us as a lawyer and give us the opportunity to fight the ways in which you are responsible for moving to the ground here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you consider it appropriate, Mr Kostelka, that these people who have turned to us so that we can help us, then send Commissioners by to see if this is all right, and perhaps those who do not want to turn to the liberals again, Mr Kostelka, I ask you: What about your concept of democracy? But we have already experienced all of this, Mr Kostelka! For example, we have experienced this with our popular desire to organize that I had the honor. At the time, the citizens came to us and said: We are afraid to sign this democratic instrument. For the party casserer has come to me to the church apartment and has said: Dear friend, if you sign this popular desire, you'll lose your apartment! – The pensioners came to us and said: People came to us and said: You're gonna lose the pension. – And people from businesses came to us and said: The works council was with me. We must not sign the popular desire, otherwise we will lose our job. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! This is how the democratic institutions are dealt with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We know all of this, we have often experienced it enough. Even in the Pyjama, mayors in Burgenland have to go out to write down car numbers of people participating in the events of the Freemans. Then people are sent out that this event... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann.]] Mr Fuhrmann! It has been through all the media that Mrs Krammer has asked a socialist mayor to check where the free politicians are going. This one had to go out in Pyjama to find out where these people are going. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – That is your concept of democracy, ladies and gentlemen! You can laugh about it, ladies and gentlemen! – I say to you: Thank God there is a regularity that thank God the voters have noticed where this undemocratic path leads. 400,000 Austrians have Leave your camp in the last ten years. Ladies and gentlemen! Keep going! With anyone you stifle, to send someone into the house and whose existence you threaten, more will leave your camp and support the liberals! And we'll be their lawyer too!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14461	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14482	Just no excitement, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that, above all, the last contributions to the debate have clearly demonstrated the double nature of social democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes!]] Mrs Mertel! Insight is the first step to improvement! Thank you very much for this admission! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Haider spoke and said to the President that he always wished for such an accurate handling of the Rules of Procedure. There will be a great dismay on your part, and there will be a talk of majesty policy. Mr Scheibner has already shown this, and I would like to underline this. On the other hand, however, Mr Heindl is indignant and urges the President of the Brauneder National Council to leave the Presidency immediately. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have to imagine that! Mr Heindl! I'm advocating emotion, no question at all! But let's give things the right weight! What is the failure of democracy in the First Republic? – Democracy in the First Republic has failed due to the self-absorbing of Parliament. At that time, the Presidents also complied with the request to set up the office and leave the Presidency. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't find anything at all at such a call! However, if a Member of this House dares to make the least of his criticism of the Presidency, you would call it a democratic offence. And that is exactly what I understand as double-beddedness, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to Mr Kostelka: I have watched him closely as he did in the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have assumed that a retired Parliamentary Council will in any case know the Rules of Procedure externally. Kostelka, in any case, felt obliged to criticise the President's presidency here. And it's really weird: He has criticised the alleged ill-treatment of Member Haider by the President for being interrupted by him. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! Are you really worried about the right of our clubman to speak? - We should be right! But, Mr Kostelka, if you come to the floor and have nothing to say on a particular subject but comments on the Rules of Procedure, I ask you: What is the situation in this case with the handling of the Rules of Procedure? Where's the "run to the thing"? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know very well that you need to talk about it. But you didn't say anything about it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! If you enter into a scientific debate with Mr. University Professor Dr. Willi Brauneder, you will all draw the shorter one! You are at the assistant stage remaining in your scientific education. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Haider too!]] That's the crucial thing! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Guggenberger! I was really surprised that you no longer spoke up! Do you have a bad conscience? The facts were clearly and clearly shown! You must understand our terror and outrage! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] In a special meeting, unacceptable supplements of up to 1 300 per cent are shown on the basis of concrete examples. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, you have nothing better to do about the SPÖ than to set up the entire state and local health phone, which you obviously use at your discretion, in order to follow such a case. And they are not afraid to investigate a person who looks into the face of death in order to investigate whether a mat or mattress has been wrongly prescribed to him. – That’s the crucial thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It really is all you need to do, according to the method "Hold the thief!" I would like to ask the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not in a position to do so. And there is nothing holy to you. Who is talking about data protection all the time? What you are doing is a real tipping being! These are Stasi methods! Mr Guggenberger! Why don't you go to the speaker's desk? We'll give you the opportunity to apologize! You can't go to an 80-year-old patient who's dedicated to death with a commission, with a chief doctor, up to the apartment! That's incredible! That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Guggenberger.]] Deputies! It's just missing that you're still going along, perhaps with the press! Why don't you be man enough? You'll get rid of this stuff! Step out and apologize! It really can't be that way! The same disdainful attitude is evident in this release in Carinthia, which invites stoma patients to give up antiseptic tumblers and instead use kitchen rolls. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This really expresses the disdainful attitude that you do not care about single-sicksales. They're just about using the method: "Stop the thief!" To wipe out the liberals of one. You have every means to do that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Guggenberger! I would like to ask you, as I hope, to clarify this debate and to apologise for the persecution of an old man. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I'm really worried if you're still making fun of it! What's there to laugh, I can't understand. That's really incredible! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] He can, of course! Mrs Mertel! If you so appreciate the facts, Madam President, and believe that an excuse is appropriate, then you must not turn to me, but two rows further, namely to Mr Guggenberger.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14626	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Posch. – Please bring the corrective and then the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14651	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Krüger, in his untruthful comparison between the First Republic and the Second Republic, said, among other things, that Parliament...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14693	Deputies! Please bring the facts to be corrected and corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14715	If I am not constantly interrupted, I can present the facts to be corrected: Mr Krüger, in his comparison between incidents in the First Republic and the Second Republic, has inconspicuously claimed that in 1933, because of the behaviour of the three national council presidents, the Parliament itself disbanded itself. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He didn't say that!]] He said that! – I note: That was not the case. On the contrary, the fact that the Presidents had set up the presidency was used to prevent Parliament from meeting again. So it was not a self-absorbing of Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14755	Mr Posch! Historical considerations are not the subject of actual corrections! Next word: Mr Schweitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14786	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Kostelka is concerned that we are getting more and more documents from the populace, which can clearly demonstrate the abuses in this Republic. Mr Kostelka! I would like to ask To put it this way: Why do more and more documents of this kind come into our letter boxes? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the result of 26 years of socialist politics in this country! This is, Mr Kostelka, a measure that should encourage you to think about it. To an increasing extent, such documents are coming to our letter boxes because the Austrians are no longer comfortable under this system that you are responsible for! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If there were any further evidence, ladies and gentlemen, then Mr Guggenberger would have done it anyway today. – You are right in any way to intimidate a citizen who is desperate for help! They are spying right up to the last corner of the accommodation of a death ill to launch a discharge attack, which then turns out to be a failure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should think about how you use this system to the detriment of the Austrians who feel less and less comfortable in this country! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was a noise attack on social weak!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Federal President from your ranks once made it perfectly clear that "aure meadows" have been created, which must be "dried down". Ladies and gentlemen! However, these acid meadows have not been dried down in recent years of socialist government, but have grown larger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] And you have done just as much as Kostelkas, Fischers and Co from Social Democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14848	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We shall proceed to the votes. - I ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pumberger and others on the withdrawal of the tax package in the field of health insurance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, Dr. Pumberger, to rise from the seats. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Povysil and others on general contracts for relief. In this case too, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a sign. – The request did not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pumberger and Mr Comrades on medicinal products, on the use of the potential for savings instead of the reduction of patients and contributors. I can ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion by Dr. Pumberger for a sign. – The application is rejected by a majority. This concludes the votes on urgent request and also the urgent request itself. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14927	We shall resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda on the declarations on the economic situation. I call Mr Van der Bellen. Speech time: 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14951	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are resumption the debate on the economy with almost seven hours of delay. I am the fifth speaker to the second item on the agenda. I cannot afford to feel that a reform of the Rules of Procedure is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations with the Greens, the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can understand, of course, if you leave the hall now! Believe me, I'm having a hard time staying here now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Once, as suggested by your group, we talked about jute for 14 hours.]] It may be! I have told Mr Schweitzer – he will testify – that the urgent response to the question at that time was indeed useful and interesting. I also think that what is going on is in need of information. – It must be noted, however, that this so-called economic debate takes place only once a year. I don't want to overestimate myself now, you don't even have to listen to my contribution today, but: I do not think it is so exciting and important that today's urgent debate must be interrupted by seven hours in order to continue at half past six. I wish now to be a dompteur who now lets the leopards jump through burning tires for you to keep you in the mood. Unfortunately, I can't. I therefore have nothing left but to get into this dry subject now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Haigermoser might have jumped!]] Maybe! Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen! What did I expect from an economic debate? In the current situation in which Austria is located, I would have expected at least five points. However, my expectations were not fulfilled in every point. I would have expected first opinions on market entry restrictions and the competitive situation in Austria, second on employment and employment policy, third on environmental policy in its impact on economic location and on environmental policy as an economic factor, fourth on industrial policy under changed conditions, namely since accession to the EU, and fifth, on at least a few words on a topic that has been very topical for a few days, namely the reform of the electricity industry. To my memory I took something with me, an interesting document. These are the Coalition Convention of 7. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good paper!]] It's probably a good paper for you, Dr. Khol! I suppose it's binding on you. It should have certain objectives for you! This coalition agreement, for example, provides for the promotion of a new spirit of entrepreneurship and for a reduction in the number of restrictions on competition still in place. On the next page you will find among others: Access to commercial activities should be facilitated. – This refers to the well-known wave of founding, the liberalisation of the trade regulation, for which Mr Farnleitner has given an implicit opinion on several occasions today, and then also explicitly in the discussion. Interestingly, in your paper, Mr Federal Minister, there is much about liberalisation, flexibility and so on, but the word "competition order" is conspicuously sent down, as the English would say. I do not think that what Mr Farnleitner said in several contexts today is bad at all. Minister! Perhaps that's what you're planning to do only in the following respects: Its concept is still too capital-oriented and refers too much to the limitations on the financing of young entrepreneurs, as important as that may be. I have here a new investigation into German start-ups, which assumes that, at least in Germany, half of all new foundings do not survive for the first five years. I think this will be similar in Austria, if not even worse. It only raises the question of what this is due to. It is only precipitously due to financial bottlenecks. This is often the cause, but not necessarily the cause of development blockades. As far as Germany is concerned, this study appears to assume that a major cause of these collapses of young companies is a sort of management deficit, a lack of management capacity, which is also due to the slow expansion of these companies, namely, to increase human resources to a certain extent. The consequence of this would be that traditional start-up aid and other small business promotions are still too subject-capital-oriented and too little human capital-oriented and do not support the human development of these companies. – This is only an incentive to take this into account in addition. As a Green Member, I would of course have liked to see reference made once again to page 45 of the Coalition Convention. There is, among other things, what really pleased me at the time: Environment protection creates jobs. – A literal quote from the Coalition Convention. Among other things, it is said that the creation of a centre for environmentally sound production is planned, which is designed to strengthen this growth industry and to facilitate Austrian suppliers' access to the world market. Unfortunately, nothing has happened to me in this relationship, although the Ministry of Economic Affairs has just published a study on it last year. This is a study by the Economic Research Institute, which was entitled: The growth market for environmental technologies. In this, the Austrian positioning on the world market was thoroughly examined. It was concluded that this market is also growing above average in Austria. I would now also like to refer to another study by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. However, I can't exactly imagine the title, but it's about sustainable development and Austria's economic location. All of this was summarized in a book – by the way, a very nice, thorough, interesting book – which was recently published by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would like to see the statements made there implemented in practical terms. Employment policy: Of course, we repeatedly hear evidence that unemployment is to be reduced and so on. I would like a Minister of Economic Affairs to address the labour market situation in a debate on the economic situation in the same way as would be necessary in the current situation. I would just like to briefly outline this subject, because at almost 23 o'clock, I think, it is not the right time to discuss it at all depth. We have about 200 000 to 250 000 unemployed in Austria. In reality, it is much more important to take into account that various measures have drastically reduced the supply of labour in Austria. If you take into account that we have some 150,000 to 200 000 pensioners who have gone into early retirement, you would still be able to work if you consider that we have 120,000 leavers and a handful of leavers who want to return to the labour market sooner or later, and if you take into account that we probably have about 100 000 unemployed foreigners who have a residence permit but do not have a work permit, you will find a current status of some 600 000 non-employed foreigners and nationals who, sooner or later, would like to have a job – not necessarily immediately – but who are not covered by official unemployment statistics in any way. There is a need for action in this area – including with regard to foreigners – but we have not heard anything about it today. The dynamics in the labour market is changing at the heart of employment. It has also been true that every year, on average, about 20 percent, about one-fifth of the employees, have become unemployed, but mostly relatively short periods of time, have found work again. However, all these values have been rising for a number of years. From the words of August Gächter – this is a researcher at the Institute for Higher Studies in Vienna – a few things can be found. He believes that employment is gradually becoming more episodic. In his episodic view, he believes that the proportion of workers without interruption is decreasing; in the duration of the employment episodes, this is also the case. In other words: In contrast to earlier, companies – including in Austria – are increasingly out of the labour market. This is a new phenomenon for Austria – for the United States, as Mr Farnleitner has already mentioned today, of course not. I would also like to say a few more words about technology policy. The Coalition Convention also said that parts of the privatisation proceeds should be channelled to research and technology promotions. – However, if the proceeds of privatisation fail, these injections will, of course, also fail. It is not at all foreseeable when CA and Bank Austria are privatized and so on. The Coalition Convention also referred to the need to focus funding on economic research and development and the future industry, such as – as I read here – "environmental technology", "energy technology", "medicine technology", and so on. I do not think that much has already happened in this relationship. The Coalition Convention continued on one side, which was on page 9, the following – I assume, that will interest Minister Farnleitner –: "Additional teaching places in the economy are to be created." – No one probably knows better than you do that the state cannot simply decide that the economy creates additional apprenticeships. What does that mean? What incentives will you give to create these additional apprenticeships? I think we wanted to debate this once a year in the Committee on Industry, but since then the Committee on Industry has never done so again and has never met this time. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Why?]] I therefore believe that ÖVP and SPÖ cannot agree on a specific detail on the promotion of apprentices – if I am not mistaken. Mr Minister, how do you finally deal with the question – because you have also quoted the American example – of labour costs? Is the work in Austria expensive or cheap enough or too expensive, or a little too expensive? This is an interesting debate that you have to face – whether you like it or not. There are possibilities to reduce labour by means of the tax system, without changing the net wages. This is an old debate, and this represents not only the Greens, but also Mr Haigermoser nodds to it. The tax system can be used to encourage staff recruitment, but of course also to reduce staff. In Austria, which is expected to amount to some 70 or 80 billion schillings, wage-amount taxes are certainly more an incentive to reduce staff rather than stop. Industrial policy: That's what we've heard today, I think, for the most part. This is not particularly surprising either, because industrial policy has always led a very strange shadow existence in Austria. It is also not really clear and clear who is responsible for industrial policy in Austria. That's a little bit... [[Call the SPÖ:Koppler!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In addition to Mr Koppler, the Minister of Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs, has some competences to do with the Minister for the Environment. It has not changed anything after the new coalition agreement. Part of the competences is even with the Minister of Science. The technology concept was commissioned by the Ministry of Science after my knowledge, but still remains unfinished. There are indeed – Mr Farnleitner will know this better than I – in the industry large-scale changes, which can be described in this way, at the shortest point: away from the old fordist, Taylorist, hierarchical factory principle, where the trend from the strict old division – namely above the Director-General and below the auxiliary workers – goes to flat, horizontally structured structures. These changes are also linked to the organisational breakdown of small and smallest enterprises, which are then generally statistically related to the service sector or to the industry and, in so far as the reduction of the number of industrial workers – statistically – is somewhat distorted. This development has also been widely used in Austria. The questions are now: Does politics react? Is that a topic or not? Does it Tangier the Social Democrats? This development does not, of course, promote the position of trade unions. The trade unions have always been easier to organize in large companies than in small ones, so this cannot promote the position of the trade unions in Austria. The question now arises: Is that just taken or do you think about something? Second point in the context of industrial policy: It has received a new framework, new scope and new borders as a result of EU accession. In addition, there are only two words: the promotion policy on the one hand and the competition policy on the other. The promotion policy has become more difficult, and I think that as an economist, it is absolutely okay, too. In principle, there is a ban on subsidies, as opposed to earlier where everything and everyone could be promoted, and there are only very certain exceptions from this ban on subsidies. As a result, this would mean, for example, that investment promotion in the context of industrial policy is declining, possibly in favour of other instruments. The question, however, is: what instruments do we want? It will be more difficult to justify the subsidisation of certain industries and industrial enterprises, because this must be reported in Brussels. It is subject to argumentation and justification, and also – this is not necessarily a particular Austrian problem, but we are experiencing it –: There are, of course, unpleasant side effects of industrial policy in the context of regional policy, if, for example, a company in the Styria near the Burgenland border exists, and one in the Burgenland near the Styrian border, and there, because of different target areas, the Burgenian company is promoted, but the Styrian one is not. This is often not useful at all in economic terms. The question is also whether this measure does not contradict the non-discrimination of other EU directives. Are there any considerations in Austria to put this on a new basis? Are there any considerations in particular to favour the small and medium-sized enterprises, which have also been largely excluded from the prohibition of subsidies under the EU directives? What do you imagine about this? Now to competition policy. You have, I suppose, taken from the newspapers that Austria has recently been told more often, for example because of the violation of procurement directives in the award of public contracts in St. Pölten and because of internationally prohibited price agreements. In my opinion, the surprise with which this country is sometimes taken up shows that it has not yet been fully understood that industrial policy has a different basis in 1996 than in 1993. To the E-Economie. Mr Federal Minister, you have already expressed yourself in press releases, unfortunately not yet. The fact is that after eight years of preparations and eight years of negotiations, to my surprise, I have to say, the European Union has adopted a directive on the reorganisation of the electricity economy in Europe. This essentially provides that competition is allowed at the production level, that the monopoly remains at the network level, and from the technical point of view it is not much different, and that the distribution level is separated from the two other levels, i.e. from the transmission or from the production. In this case, it is not In this way, it will be possible to introduce a certain competition at international level also in the e-business – in contrast to the last 50 years. This directive provides for the first time around one quarter of the electricity market and, within the next ten years, about one third of the electricity market will be open to competition, but only to competition for large industrial enterprises – large in terms of large demand for electricity. The question from the Austrian point of view is now, for example: What about certain city works? Are these included in this liberalisation concept or not? This is not regulated by the EU Directive, because there is an Austrian margin for manoeuvre. [[Abg. May. Ederer: What is the proposal?]] The Minister has already spoken about this – I do not know whether shortly before or after the Commission decision – that he is speaking in principle for the so-called unbundling, i.e. the separation between these three levels, if I have not understood it incorrectly, even more strongly than the EU directive. According to the EU Directive, it would be sufficient for these levels to be separated from accountable, mathematically. Minister Farnleitner even spoke of a division of companies, which I personally value positively. I would really like this better than purely mechanical – provided, of course, from a green point of view, that there are also ecological, accompanying measures. It is clear that one of our "duration burner themes" is differentiation according to the type of electricity generation in the context of taxation. Unfortunately, this differentiation has not been made in the case of electricity, i.e. the differentiation according to caloric, by water, by renewable energies, such as wind, photovoltaics and so on. Tax techniques would not be a particular problem in particular to favour the combined heat and power, or to consider what kind of incentives or sanctions can make the production of winter electricity in Austria more easily removed from fossil power plants. In this connection, we will need both a feed-in law and the already mentioned emphasis on least-cost planning, i.e. taking into account economic costs and not just business considerations. As soon as these framework conditions are met, we are quite ready to talk about additional competition within the e-commerce. I hope that Minister Farnleitner, who knows his "pappenheimer" – and this has been stressed repeatedly in the comments on his appointment – will, I suppose, take a further step in this direction, including the potential interests of the inter-communal society and the national societies. I hope that the additional competition in these opposites will not simmer somewhere. One or two comments on your speech today. It is not that I find everything I don't comment, good or bad, but in the light of the time I get very short. For the commercial order: It calmed me when you said yourself in the discussion, Mr Farnleitner, because at first one could actually have the impression that there was no business regulation for you. To the USA: I found it interesting that you have quoted this study of the Council of Economic Advisors. It is of course true that this study seems to relate only to two years, can refer exclusively to the data from 1994 onwards, but apart from that I wonder whether I did not fully understand when you said – I have to read it too – that in fact it is not the way we always believed that it was only the famous "Mc jobs" but paid better. What does that mean? How do you want to transfer certain sections of American politics to Austria? They have only found that it is not the way in which many – including me – have believed so far. But what does that mean? What conclusions, what economic policy measures, what conclusions do you draw from this? I particularly liked a sentence, Minister of State: You said, so at least in your text on page 11 it says: It is not the entrepreneurship that needs to be justified, but the state regulation. - Wonderful! However, I have once suffered sad shipwreck with this ceiling in a working group of the social partners. But that's about ten years ago. At that time we debated subsidies and had the task of producing a paper on the reduction of subsidies in Austria. We then made a subgroup – also strictly social partnership – and agreed relatively quickly that the reduction of the subsidy should not be justified in argumentative terms, but the maintenance. . We have produced a suitable paper, but for reasons which I can explain later if you are interested, this study is irrevocable in the drawers of social society, at least at that time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Maybe you can pull this out again now, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This study was free of charge, because it works for free in the social partners. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – You think she wasn’t worth anything, but we’ve invested a lot of time. A few comments on Minister Klima's speech today. I liked many points, such as the remarks – he's not here at the moment, then I don't tell him what I liked well, then I'm just telling him what I didn't like – the somewhat euphemistic views: [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: We'll do it to him!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's his fault!]] "First again light in the economic sky." So I don't know if we're seeing light on the economic sky again. At best, a bad situation in itself is stabilizing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The so-called minus growth!]] In so far as it may already be that, because it is not even deeper, it is stabilizing. Apart from this, the already poor forecasts of Wifo and IHS for economic development in 1996/97 are not necessarily based on the fact that the private savings rate is falling by no less than 20 percent. – Whether there is this "light", we will know in 1997 but not yet. I also do not believe that, as Mr Klima has suggested, the issue of employment policy in the European Union has become the issue of number one. So I don't see it like that. This may be the case on the part of the Commission, but at the political level, this view has not yet been enforced. With regard to monetary union, I would like to say the following: If the Minister has meant climate, the objective in monetary union is price stability and the objective in the Economic Union must be full employment, then of course this is right and is warmly supported as a normative statement by the Greens, but as a fact claim it is obviously incorrect. As regards the budgetary situation in the context of EU accession, we have already expressed ourselves sufficiently, but Minister Klima has again provoked me by saying: "The fiscal convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty correspond to the content of the budgetary policy line that Austria followed long before accession to the EU." – It is right: long before accession, but unfortunately not shortly before accession and during accession. Minister Klima says that until 1992 Austria was one of the states with the best track record in meeting the Maastricht criteria and "we had over 3 percent deficit only in particularly unfavourable economic situations". That is obviously incorrect. In 1995, there was no particularly unfavourable economic situation at all, but the highest deficit in the Second Republic with 6.2 percent of GDP. – In this respect, of course, the positive opinion of the International Monetary Fund, which is also quoted by the words: The consolidation programme of Austria is just as courageous and inevitable, a little ambivalent. It is indeed courageous – and I have said that more often than not from this speaker’s point of view; it is, purely technically speaking, a courageous concept – but it was inevitable because the 1994/95 budget has been deflated in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is never very fair to criticize a program, a speech or a study of a non-existent content. I am already aware of that, and in a way it naturally reflects my personal preferences. Nevertheless, I believe that we could have learned a little more about industrial policy, Mr Farnleitner and Mr Klima. It has also bothered me that, in the context of an economic debate, the famous long-term structural reforms in the context of budgetary policy are not again... [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: They don't have it!]] Somewhere they will already be in the concept, I hope at least! In a drawer of the Ministry of Finance there is certainly something like that. I'm just wondering why it never comes. Time goes by. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Phantom drawer!]] At any rate, we have still not heard anything about these issues, and I do not hope that what we have already experienced in 1995 will once again come to mind that a certain paralysis has occurred immediately after the decision on the package of consolidation then. We don't need that in 1996. In other words, I do not think it is necessary for the culture of discussion to be supported if one receives the speech immediately on the same day. You do your best to read it, but it would be more efficient if you had been given the speech at least 24 or 48 hours before. The real issue could have been the report of the Federal Government today "to the economic situation of the nation" – as this great document always means. None of us have read it, and none of us have read it in view of the scarce time. Now, of course, we can be of the opinion that the economic debate is not important. I am not of this opinion. We usually have a budget debate once a year and this takes a lot of time. There are usually no urgent requests to interrupt this. Once a year we have this so-called economic debate, which always takes place at the end of June at the beginning of July – if I am not mistaken. It would be possible to distribute this document one week before, so that one could comment on the Federal Government's report and not only on the individual ministers. Maybe that's working next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15166	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15187	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague Van der Bellen! You know that I always like to talk to you, and even today we could have talked about a lot, but you actually incited my ambition in another way today by showing or trying to show that economic professors can speak briefly at 23 o'clock. Maybe I too will be able to fulfill this ambition. I would therefore like to confine myself to one point. I think it was interesting that today – the first time in this House – we have heard from two ministers a longer and more detailed opinion on the project of the European Economic and Monetary Union. It must be noted that, in this House, we have not yet spoken about this project at any time really serious and longer. This is undoubtedly something that can be changed by us too. I do not, of course, want to change it ad hocly at this time, before this lurking but scarce audience, but I believe that we must do so. On this occasion I should also like to say that we will have a discussion on this subject within the framework of the Financial Committee with the Bureau and the Executive Board of the National Bank, because I believe that Parliament is also required, and certainly many are aware of the timetable. In two years it will be decided on the question: Who is a member of monetary union? ==References== The exchange rates will be finally fixed in January 1999. From this point on, the euro can be used as a currency. And from 1st. In January 2002, the euro will be the sole currency. That means: In less than six years we will pay with the euro in Austria. I think it is a task for us parliamentarians to make even more clear the awareness of the changes involved. I am convinced that we will pay with the euro. The economic data show very clearly that Austria will belong to those countries that will do so. – Tomorrow will be the forecast of the Institute for Economic Research, which shows that in 1998 we will have a net deficit of about 3%. I would also like to make very clear the political statement that we are clearly on this European Monetary Union project by the Socialist Party. We believe that this solution will be good for Austria. We will therefore also fight for it! However, I would like to add: We see this project of European Monetary Union as a future project, a forward-looking project. However, there are some who also see this project as a project of the past, who believe that they can return to the policy of the 1930s through the instrument of monetary union, to a policy in which the State would have to adopt any stabilisation function. – This is not the concept, as we see the European Monetary Union, nor is it the concept, as it is contained in the Maastricht Treaties, in which, for example, the stability criteria are very clearly distinguished between a structural deficit which is to be reduced and, in my view, completely reduced in the longer term, and a economic deficit which is very probably fiscal and which, above all, has a function in the context of the overall economic context of the automatic stabilisers. I do not want to say more about this concept and about these problems today. I would just like to suggest that we in Parliament are very much concerned about this issue. I am pleased that it has been discussed today in the opinions of the Ministers. I see here, as it were, a further debt of Parliament. I would also like to wish the new Minister for Economic Affairs all the best and good luck. In any case, it was always a pleasure for me to know each other for a long time. I think it is a good thing to have someone here who knows the events and the Austrian economic problems, and, I would like to stress this, it is a positive thing for me to have a minister of the economy who comes from the social economy. I think we should be conscious of this: This is an institutional location factor in Austria, and those wishing to endanger this location factor are at risk to the location of the Austrian economy as a whole. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this sense, Minister, I wish you good luck and welcome you to this House! You'll have to get used to late, but that's what you've been used to. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15252	The two professors spoke together for 36 minutes, though in relation to seven to one. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That was a double conference!]] The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15282	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In other words, my previous speaker, Novotny, has found that the house has become tired. That is why he has taken a short look. After the Novotnys debate on monetary union, we will still have to make an argument in this field. There are some counter-arguments to this as to the problem of monetary union. That is what I am saying as a convincing European. It is well known that there is not an economic professor in front of you, but a practical trader who has to deal with many things every day, to teach about the economic professors or to decide by Parliament. On Saturday, for example, in practice, I can conduct apprenticeship training talks. I decided together with my wife to try again if we could find someone to hire an apprentice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Bravo!]] I have not only decided to do so out of love for the apprentices, but also because I believe that the economy is also responsible. However, this responsibility should not be complicated, but facilitated, by laws which we decide on a daily basis. Mr Novotny! Finally, you have still meant to have to address the social partners. In this context, a word for me was very interesting today, namely that of Mr Haselsteiner. Mr Haselsteiner, as I believe, has today shown very well the development of the social partners in recent years. I don't want to repeat his words, but they were good for me, as I said. For it has rightly meant that conflicts must be carried out verbally and that it is now one of the failures of the social partners that these conflicts are not carried out, but that they are reached in broad areas, so to speak, in the dark chamber. – And in this way the social partners have brought us a lot of negative things and is a clot on the leg of the economy and an obstacle to the further development of the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen! One example is the so-called Workers' Protection Act, which in itself does not deserve this name, which is now being fought by the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. All cannons are shot here. It is criticised that this anti-union law – which is true – is too bureaucratic and not to be executed. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The law, not the implementation!]] All right! A law is as good as its implementation, my colleague. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You can interpret a law like this!]] That's the problem! So please don't lie to me now and don't make excuses! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this law on workers' protection is now being boldly combated. Because now it is to be implemented, and there he has determined how terrible this is. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome is the paper war that is coming about now!]] ==References== However, he still praised this law in the highest tones in the decision-making process in this House on May 1994! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: It is due to the bureaucratic implementation!]] Mr President, ladies We also understand the business, this excuse does not apply! I think it's better if I quote you what you're doing on 25th. In May 1994 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations – According to Stenographic Protocol, they said literally: "We are now deciding on a major social package, which is a very important step towards social policy reforms." At the time, they meant the Workers' Protection Act. You also said: "As one who was already allowed to negotiate the Labour Protection Act 1972 – still under the later Minister of Social Affairs Weissenberg – I am pleased that today's decision-making is a continuous path of development... drive forwards." And on top of that: This is clearly reflected in the law on the protection of workers now in force. And so on, and so on. So that means: Stumblingly, in full knowledge of the corresponding bureaucracy, he praised the law that he fought today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] Peter also criticized this because he knows that this must only be done, if at all, with red tape without number. On the basis of this example, once again, ladies and gentlemen, the dual nature of this social partnership will be apparent. And that's the problem you have: It breaks you everywhere the dams: You'll break the dams with your members. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What?]] In Vienna, only more than 20 percent went to the Chamber of Commerce election! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 90 percent consent!]] They are much more angry than this famous, well-known workers' chamber president, who then spoke of a "great success", Colleague stupid! You're much more angry if you still promise 20 percent voter turnout! You don't have the people behind you anymore! That's the problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Mr. Klubobmann! Let us rather talk about the privileges of Khol, then, I believe, we would be on the right line once! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Weak replica!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Economic Affairs has received from us certain supplies of strawberries, or we are waiting for the results of his work. – Today, however, he has sung the song again on the small and medium-sized economy, according to the old knit pattern: At the Sunday speeches you can sing this song quietly, but if it goes to the recorded, very little to nothing will be implemented at all. In this context, we are waiting for your actions, Minister of Economic Affairs, because only with these promises will we certainly not continue. The fact is that those homework that we have always told us were not done in many areas. In this context, it is quite interesting how tax policy looks. Of course, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you have no primary influence on these. However, with a view to the government's overall liability, they would be obliged to create a framework for fiscal policy which will enable economic activity as a whole as well as economic action. It is very interesting to look at the recent title story from the "Industrie", the central organ of the Industrial Association. In that "industry" at the birth of the package of measures – or as you call it: the so-called structural adjustment law – was cheered and said: Now we are finally working on reforms. – Two days ago, however, we had to read in this magazine that the tax package for the Austrian economy represents a setback – I quote: "A climate deterioration between taxpayers and Fiscus must be expected." Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Farnleitner! That's the problem we've got now. You have now taken over a heavy office. A more volatile – although not a tax-free – Johannes Ditz has left the government. You have stepped into his footsteps, and we wish you a lot of success in the sense of the Austrian economy. But how do you want to achieve this if the industrial association, which is not a free movement, does say that climate change needs to be expected between taxpayers and Fiscus? This article also presents evidence of why this conflict is going to happen or why it is already going through the stage. The so-called parking tax is cited as a small example. This shows the climate deterioration. How should this founding offensive – 56 000 companies are to be set up immediately – be replaced if you take every drive on the part of the trader or those who want to make themselves independent? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Peter: But not all at once, but one at a time!]] Every year! – How do you want to achieve that someone takes courage and says: I want to become independent in this country of Austria because I count on opportunities!Unknown term type: "%s".? Because the accompanying tax policy, which the Austrian People's Party operates, really does not deserve the name "reform"! You – and that's your scapegoat number one – went into the red on this 50-S deal! Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner! It has already been said today that last Tuesday you had the first chance to say no and say: Dear friends! If you already want to cash in these 50 S – and it is a second question whether that would have been necessary at all – then the economy should not be dealt with again, which is therefore again used as an unpaid bureaucrat for this state. It is not just my sluggish reason why you have agreed to this, and we therefore regard it as an original sin that you take along on your way, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the basis of this, one more time, it will not be yours, but the unbelief of the social partners. This is how it was articulated by Haselsteiner from the Liberal Forum: Madethaner lets bet against the collection. The Secretary-General of the Economic Union will be sent to the front and will have to make statements as to how unfair it is that the economy will again have to cash in this 50 s. However, in Parliament or before in the government, the representatives of the same group agree to these measures! This double floor will no longer be taken from you! There's no need for any liberals. The economic operators are still alert enough to realize that you have more than failed here, ladies and gentlemen. You can't call yourself – as I now call it – former breaddressers of the traders so quickly to say goodbye to the wishes of these people! At my request, it was adopted on 25 May. In June, a few days ago, a resolution in the enlarged Federal Trade Section decided that this collection should not be carried out in the establishments. But you didn't seem to be interested in that either! I'm sorry. But now, not only do I want to stick to this case, but I must say once again that we have said: Farnleitner is supposed to get a fair chance. You have this opportunity on our part. But you also need to work to reduce the daily "control insanity" – as described in a newspaper – in much-tested Austria. Because this is one of the main reasons why companies from Austria are increasingly saying goodbye and young people are not willing to make themselves independent. It is not so much the work that a trader expects, which is dissuasive, but rather this insanity of control. You know that, Minister of State, I would therefore just like to remind you more briefly of what is going on here because of the hour ahead. – For example: There's an official army with us. In principle, the officials have little to do with this. On the other hand, Parliament can do much for this because we are creating the laws that are needed to recruit more officials. And in the field of testing, in the field of plant and environment, compliance with industrial regulations, water law, piping, forestry, mountain, waste management, detergent, chemicals, environmental impact assessment, plant protection and air recontent law is controlled according to German law. Laws on nature and landscape protection, fire police, events, play equipment, camping sites and waste management are included under national law. That would continue for a long time, this is a continuing novel without end, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But please don't!]] There must be forested, there must be cleaned up with the axe, so that we can control what is necessary but leave so much room for it to be paid back in this country to be entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen. These are the questions we have to solve! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know you know that too. The numerous reports on the situation of KM companies are on the table, for example for the year 1993, in which it could be viewed. And there are also many others in which good insights are contained and the situation is illuminated: The list of proposals has long been the list of trade regulations, deregulation, privatisation, capital base. But implemented, Minister of State, you have little to nothing! You have invented even more bureaucracy, you have built up new obstacles: Workers' Protection Act, Labour Inspectorates' Questions et cetera. That is why we will have to meet in this whaling place and clarify whether you are prepared to help each other as an opposition and as a government, that we meet in the middle and get things to the point. As an opposition, we do not stand at a justamental position, but we are very much at Austria's economic location. That is why we are fighting with commitment to a new economic policy. All we have to do is deal with things with caution. There would still be many issues to debate. However, I come to the conclusion and would like to quote Mr Ronald Barazon from the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', which means that he has hit the nail on his head. – He says: "What zeal will the member of the government Farnleitner show when it comes to solving problems through active economic policy? There has already been no economic policy. It should not change much with Farnleitner, but no one will protest if the new Minister provides for surprises." Federal Minister! We will not protest if you are good for such surprises. Our "forschlostlorbeeren" – under quotation marks – may you have, I put you on the government bank in a symbolic way. But we will watch you with Argusaugen whether you meet this requirement profile or whether You will always borrow the ear of your former Lord and Master Madethaner, who is one of those, I do not say: Concrete heads, but one of the barriers to trade, liberalisation and deregulation. Free yourself from this chamber pressure, then you have the liberals on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15488	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. - He has the word. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Jacob! A maximum of five minutes!]] Deputies! According to the Rules of Procedure, you will not be allowed more than 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15521	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you very much for this reconnaissance that I have so much time! However, I will not use them. [[Abg. Böhacker: Damage!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As someone who has already experienced some such economic policy reports, I am a little disappointed today in view of the time that we have here in Parliament. This day is a disappointment for me. Because today there would have been a chance – and I would have expected it – that the declaration on the economic situation would bring a dispute between the government and the opposition. It is precisely from a party that always pretends to be for the hard-working, for the skilled, for the decent, for the economy, for the jobs, that I would have expected it to use today to deal with them accordingly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You must have rewritten your speech! In the morning, you'd have talked differently!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the F! You have, however, sacrificed this day and this necessary economic policy debate in favour of a poor spectacle! Mr Haigermoser's speech has also changed absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing! For me, there are two reasons why this opportunity has not been taken advantage of. – First of all: The economic situation of Austria is far better than what you like to talk about. She's actually better! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Second reason: The new Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Farnleitner, has made you politically speechless with his dazzling statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's a genius!]] In relation to this, Mr Trattner's statements were nothing but a political spirit train ride. It is therefore necessary to return a little to reality and to present economic policy as it is. For it is not as it is spoken of by you. The political situation and the economic situation should be yours. Ladies and gentlemen of the F, but open their eyes! But it's difficult to explain a color to a color blind person if he doesn't want to see anything else in front of loud blue! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: My God, this is a hearty comparison!]] Dear Mr Ofner! The budget adjustment was and is necessary. I suppose you won't argue! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then finally start with it!]] This is necessary, regardless of the Maastricht criteria! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Once you're in government, it's going on!]] Anything else, or already done? Have you finally gotten minter? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A well-founded budget, stable exchange rates, low inflation rates and associated low interest rates provide a good and sustainable basis for a stable economy and for a development as we need it. If it was actually so difficult and economically so bad, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why I read here: Foreign investors storm Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where's that?]] Foreigners have already invested four times as much in Austria in the first four months of 1996 as in the same period of the previous year. 16.8 billion schillings were invested, four times as much as in the previous year. – I would like every company to be able to present a result in the first quarter of one year, which is better than the overall result of the previous year! I wish I did! We can show this result for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Farnleitner already laughs!]] Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner actually smiles about your calls, absolutely right! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's not smiling, he's laughing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that not everything is good. The problem has been explained by Mr Farnleitner today in remarkable seriousness and openness, and we will support him in the reform projects he has indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15689	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15710	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We must remain in this House undistorted if we are to turn to economic issues, because we can suddenly find ourselves at seven hours' time. This fact will have an impact on the length of my speech. However, I think it is necessary to take up a very specific point, a point which Mr Farnleitner did not mention in his statement – some of my previous speakers have already noted – which, in my view, is very important: For reasons of the infrastructural importance and competitiveness of the Austrian economy and because, I believe, it is one of the biggest challenges to reform which the Minister will face, I would like to briefly address the question of the reform of the Austrian energy economy structures, namely that there will be no too great a contradiction between the view of the Federal Minister and the people dealing with these issues. If, in public statements, you are already familiar with the principle of unbundling the company's purposes, namely the maximum voltage grids, production and land supply, then this is on and on, a foundation on which we can discuss. But one must project this before Austrian reality. Federal Minister! I see a great deal of problems coming to you or to those who really want to make these reforms because they are an economic sector that reflects Austrian economic history in several ways, not from its best side. On the one hand, we have the following findings: In 1987, the great coalition set up a law which states in the constitutional order that the Austrian electricity industry must remain state-owned by 51 percent. – This is a first challenge to reform. Secondly, the same law was laid down in 1987 – decided with the votes of the great coalition – that the current structure, with the new state companies, the special companies, the joint venture in the existing form and the corporate objects, as they are described, must remain as it is. And I say again: These are constitutional provisions. In addition, there are highly divergent conflicts of interest in the individual federal states and between the federal states and the federal government, i.e. between black and red state companies, between pro-dominant national societies and inter-federal societies. It is found that the association has now partly participated in national companies, and the staff are still hypertrophic. And we still have a disproportionately high electricity price in Austria in view of the fact that we have a share of 70 percent of hydropower. I believe, Minister of State, that it was no coincidence that you have also made this issue public. For no one knows better than you that the EU directive, which is now being adopted – Mr Van der Bellen has already pointed out – is a very short-term force for action. If we do not manage to implement a structural reform until the entry into force of this directive, which will at least bring market-economy elements, by 1997 then it will end in a disaster, namely that we will lose the real economic sovereignty in one of the central infrastructure areas in that country. And I believe that this would seriously endanger the cohesion of the Republic as part of the united Europe. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Apart from the technical details and the economic aspects that I do not want to highlight right now, this political challenge, for the reasons I believe, is a real challenge. You will have to explain to your group colleagues the reason why this is reasonable. And you will experience that the short-term fear of not being re-elected in the country of Upper Austria and in the country of Lower Austria is a much stronger motive than the rational consideration that there can be a disaster in Austria in five or six years. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: The Vienna election also means a disaster!]] But it will be those heads of state – I would particularly like to involve a person here so that I do not exclusively apostrophe the political colleagues of Mr Farnleitner – it will also be clear to Mr Mayor Häupl that it will be at the end of the 20th century. At the end of the century, an energy supply company of the size and importance of the city's works in Vienna is no longer modern, in the form of a magistrate department. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's it!]] If You really want to meet this challenge in the next one and a half years – much more time you will not have for it – then you will need a very broad consensus, because it requires a two-thirds majority, and you will have to do enormous persuasion, not only at the surface of politics, but also where the experts meet. I therefore invite all the political groups to participate in this project, because I believe that if we fail to do so, the sale will take place, the structure will be broken down and the high-voltage network still not finished will never be completed. In the end, the load distribution centre would not be moved from Vienna to Kaprun, but from Vienna to Munich or Dortmund, and then we would be periphery in the very sense of the word. And giving one of the "three big networks" out of hand would be a pity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15775	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15796	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a fact that there have been massive economic changes in Europe in recent years: the opening of the East, the collapse of the economic crisis in 1993/94, the accession to the European Union, the adaptation of our economic laws in this area, and also world trade agreements such as GATT, the WTO and the like. The Austrian economy has faced the biggest challenges since 1945 in recent years, and I think we can say today that the Austrian economy has managed these changes relatively well. This was possible because – and we can say this proudly – the economic policy frameworks were given and politics also contributed. The most important task of policy – we have already discussed the reports today; I do not want to do so any more – in the next few years, of course, we, as legislators, will support this process of integration in Europe innovatively and offensively, and I believe that we must pay particular attention to a number of points. Mr Novotny has already mentioned the third stage: economic and monetary union. I do not want to go further, but their preparation is likely to be the most important task in the next few years. This is a strategic decision of real long-term importance, because I believe that the euro – with good positioning in the parity between yen and dollar – can be a fight instrument of the European economy. Federal Minister Farnleitner has already mentioned the export offensive and a founding offensive. I believe that there is a need for action here too, because, on the one hand, the banks in Austria do not really fulfil this function satisfactoryly, and on the other hand, the discussion on such initiatives has been continuing for a very long time. In my opinion, the risk financing that has already been discussed today, but also the location marketing, are two main points that we need to force in the next few years. I would be pleased if, in the short term, perhaps even this year, measures would be taken to facilitate these activities. The Federal Minister for Climate has already emphasized infrastructure policy today. I believe that, despite the savings package, we are setting up relatively large activities in this area. I am very glad that the new Minister for Economic Affairs has made his statements on energy policy much stronger than his predecessor has done, and I ask him to pay attention to the fact that not only in the energy sector, but also in the telecoms sector, there are no similar structural problems. We will need a truly strong telecommunications operator in Austria. What is currently happening in this segment is to be compared with the energy sector: In my opinion, it is rather an operetta policy of the national societies, of the urban societies. I would really ask you to pay attention to this segment too, not to allow any misdevelopments in Austria and not to make any misinvestments. In the areas of road and rail housing, a lot of money is currently being invested, which is known. I ask you to try, although you are not directly responsible for this, but, of course, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you must have a fundamental interest in getting to grips with the following problem: In the construction and construction sector, the proportion of illegal workers reaches a really unpleasant level, which in fact leads to a dramatic distortion of competition. At the end of this year, we will probably face the fact that many farms will not finish or even survive this marketing year. I urge you, together with the Minister of Social Affairs, to take measures to eliminate these abuses. In the area of social services, care insurance and the exploitation of these federal funds, activities which have a meaningful economic effect should also be set up. The same applies, of course, to services. I believe that research and training and technology policy is very important. Mr Van der Bellen has already addressed the technology policy concept. I can tell you that this concept, because it has been in the process of revision since 1994, may be passed by the Council of Ministers before the summer and will be dealt with in the industrial committee in the autumn. I believe that we need to create new framework conditions in the fields of research, training and technology diffusion – this is certainly also in the interest of the Minister of Economic Affairs – so that we can cover active industrial policy in this segment. Finally, the redefinition of federalist structures, as I have already mentioned in the field of energy policy and telecommunications. We have to agree on this – the federal government, the states, the local authorities and the local authorities – who can really carry out what tasks efficiently, who can do the most economically reasonable, the most efficient, and thus distribute the work and, so to speak, place federalism on a somewhat more economic basis, because I believe that there are still potentials in billions. These potentials give me the hope that we will be able to deal with our problems more easily. A final sentence on the new Minister. I've been a fan of Minister Ditz myself and I've thought that no one will do better. – Minister of State! The first days of your work and your current statements may have taught me a better one. I wish you all the best and look forward to our cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15860	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15882	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the two reports, it has been found again and again this morning that the situation of the Austrian economy is not so bad at all. I think that this is at least wrong in many areas. I would now like to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. In 1996, there are massive problems in these enterprises, and the profit situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is worrying. I do not know whether you know – perhaps you already have the relevant statistics – that a significant decline in profits has occurred in most small and medium-sized enterprises. There is therefore a danger that equity, which has always had a bad value, will fall. The fact that there are problems also shows the insolvency statistics of the year 1996: 37.5 billion schilling debts could no longer be paid due to insolvency. A comparison to the previous year: If you subtract the socialist pleite, the "consumer", it was 26 billion schilling in the same period. This clearly shows a dramatic rise. The number of insolvencys has increased by 7 percent. I am not of the opinion that, in the event of a falling equity, in the event of a decline in profits and in the event of an insolvency, it can be said that the conditions in Austria are right. Federal Minister! We expect a minister of the ÖVP to implement the announcements that we hear again and again – for every new minister of the economy explains to us that he will create framework conditions for the economy in Austria – and that he will also implement them. So far, this has not occurred. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to set accents there or there in order to achieve better conditions for the economy. Finally, I would like to give three examples – one of which you, Federal Minister Farnleitner, have mentioned another, Mr. Federal Minister for Climate Change, which is not at all voting. The first concerns the Minister of Finance. Federal Minister! They meant that the difficulties of the apprenticeship market were the responsibility of entrepreneurs – at least they had She said this a little emotionally and in our direction. I think you probably had nothing to do with apprentices at the time, but you may still know how much the burdens in Austria are at present when you employ apprentices. The situation has now occurred that small and medium-sized enterprises can no longer afford the training of apprentices, and this must be addressed. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] In the past, burdens that I do not want to mention in detail have been introduced for apprenticeship training – the municipal tax and so on, you know that very well. I hope, Minister of State, that this trend, to increasingly burden the entrepreneurs who train apprentices, is not related to the fact that you want to promote the state teaching workshops more by the Social Democrats, or at least some groups of the Social Democrats. I think we need less state in Austria and much more private. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, we should promote apprenticeships, for example in the form of tax allowances. A dramatic example is the situation in Lower Austria: There are 40 percent fewer apprenticeships this year, but 10 percent more job seekers. Mr. Cot, because you are nagging right now: I really do not understand why the trade union group – i.e. a socialist initiative – wants to achieve tomorrow in Lower Austria that the apprenticeships in the trade will increase the teaching time from 1,080 to 1 260 hours. There is even a survey in Lower Austria, which shows clearly that this would not be necessary because of curriculum or otherwise. I do not understand this initiative, but perhaps you could influence your colleagues to abandon this nonsense tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I hope that we can prevent this in Lower Austria together with the ÖVP because we have the majority in the National Schools Council, thank God. The second example I would like to explain was addressed by Mr Farnleitner. These are the promotions of young entrepreneurs. Of course, liability is something that can help, but it is primarily necessary to facilitate business start-ups. These include: liberalisation of trade regulations, easier access to trade and rapid and unbureaucratic implementation of operating permits. Furthermore, facilitating acquisitions would be an extremely important aspect. At the moment, it is the case that it sometimes fails to calculate itself at all or a successor cannot take over a business. This, in turn, is linked to plant permits; I think that is known to you on the basis of your experience in the Chamber of Commerce. That is why I believe that measures must be taken here because the opposite has so far been the case. Finally, for example, the promotion of small businesses, which you have also mentioned, Mr Federal Minister. I really ask you to consider whether we can talk about promoting small businesses if, at the same time as this tax package, which was decided a few months ago, the minimum corporate tax is increased to 50 000 s. I hope that at least you know how important the small GmbHs, namely the family GmbHs, are for the Austrian economy, especially in terms of the easier design of successors. Therefore, the argument that I heard in connection with the Structural Adjustment Act should be transformed, because these small GmbHs are not needed anyway – properly reproduced – has no meaning for me. These 50 000 S are certainly not suitable for the promotion of small businesses. Loss deductions were also suspended for two years. This, of course, is also true of small entrepreneurs if they have had the wrong to have losses. In addition, in recent years – due to a lack of tax policy – deposit formations have been made difficult and partly curiosity tax laws have been created, such as autodepreciation. No one will succeed with his car, if he really needs it – and I assume it – to drive eight years, because in eight years I would have, for example, on the tachometer of my car about 600 000 to 700 000 kilometers. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That doesn't matter to the 600 Mercedes anyway!]] I don't have a 600 Mercedes! You're wrong. I have a Mercedes, but not a 600. But even a Mercedes doesn't do 600,000 to 700,000 kilometers so well. . I believe that if you really want to promote these small businesses, too, it must be set up here. Such examples are sufficient in the tax legislation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In any case, there are enough opportunities to change the framework conditions, but it will not be enough, Mr Federal Minister, to talk only about it. They will have to act. They will have to take economic-friendly measures. If you put these, you have the support of the liberals. However, if you continue to pursue the economic policy of the socialist coalition of the last decade, we will oppose your opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15948	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15970	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have followed the truly brilliant speech of the new Minister for Economic Affairs, Dr. Hannes Farnleitner, and I must say that she was not only brilliant, but she has really shown the prospects that we need in particular for location protection in Austria. To say to Dr. Haider at the first item on the agenda that Dr. Farnleitner may be the second or third election, I would like to say the following, as a Member of Parliament, that we have caught the best man for Austria with Dr. Farnleitner as the Minister for Economic Affairs; the first one. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: He will fit you well, the Farnleitner!]] We – Dr. Haider, you will also have followed this – have a new government, a three-way government in Burgenland. We also have a new Economic Council, a very good man, and I am convinced that this axis of Vienna-Burgenland will continue to work very well in the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Stix is already doing this!]] As the representative of an economically weak region – and the Burgenland is well known as Objective 1 – I can only underline what Dr. Farnleitner said in his speech, namely that we have to eliminate the location disadvantages and stop the purchasing power flow. Above all – and this is very important, I stress that especially for the Burgenland – we need to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. Only healthy businesses also create jobs. And small and medium-sized enterprises also keep them in bad times. I would have prepared a lot, but due to the advanced time I am saving myself and coming to a conclusion. I believe that when the programme presented by our new Minister for Economic Affairs is implemented, we can actually face the future with optimism. And I wish all of us and the two ministers, especially the new Minister of Economic Affairs, much success in their implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16046	Mrs Schaffenrath, you have been removed from the list of speakers. The next speaker is Mr Böhacker.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16089	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister for Finance, it will be You will certainly not be surprised if I try to deal with your remarks a little bit soon. Federal Minister! First of all, to your remarks: You said the citizens would have accepted the load package, as you have chained it. That clearly shows, Mr Federal Minister, how far you are from reality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I'll do it differently: I will give your telephone number to all my clients who call me and complain about the wage tax rulings and prepayment decisions, so that you too can hear the voice of the people again. Then you will notice that not all citizens of our country agree with this your tax package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I do the 20 calls!]] That will be a little more, Minister of State! In the context of EU accession, you have repeatedly talked about adjustment requirements in the areas of the economy, of adjustments of exporters and, above all, of adjustments in protected areas. Federal Minister! One thing, however, has gone down on this, namely the pressure to adapt and the need to adapt in relation to tax law. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Should we reintroduce the asset tax again?]] You, Mr Finanzminister, could have lost a few words on this, not on the reintroduction of property tax, commercial, capital or income tax. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a socialist demand!]] On the contrary: Finally, you have to examine the extent to which Austrian tax law, which is still compatible with EU tax law. There are – I refer to the 6. VAT Directive – in particular Article 33, which states that, in addition to VAT, no other turnover-like tax-like tax should be abolished in a country. Financial experts have also shown several times that drink tax, tourism tax in the countries, possibly even the deterioration in the pre-tax deduction of motor vehicles and the minimum corporate tax are not necessarily EU-compliant. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Chamber envelope!]] Chamber environment – yes. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, you should be warned about the disaster in external trade promotion. I invite you to discuss, elsewhere, at other times – if there is more time – whether Austrian tax law is still fully compatible with the EU. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In the near future the youngest child from the climate: amending the regulation on federal uniform evaluation of certain contributions for 1992 and 1993. Federal Minister! I assume that you know the order you have given. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's not so sure!]] I assume at least that you know § 4a, which was inserted after § 4. I'm allowed to quote him literally: Where there is the possibility for the worker to park the motor vehicle used by him for the journeys — workplace during working hours in areas subject to parking space management at an employer's place of storage or garage, a reference of 200 s per month must be made. - Quote. Is this passage familiar to you? – But that doesn't look very convincing, Minister of State. If that's really familiar to you, it's all the worse. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! I have allowed myself to calculate, on the basis of the earnings of an Austrian average earner, what this costs the fictitious tax burden, this point of reference. It costs the taxpayer at a value of 2 400 S per year 1 064 S, the employer pays 709 S, the total is 1 774 S parking tax. – This is a silent, sluggish tax increase that you, Federal Minister, are practicing. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: There has been so far! At the request of the employees' representatives, this has been a harmonization because some financial officials charged 500 S, others 300 S with regard to the matter!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Chamber of Workers demands a burden on the workers!]] [[Abg. Huber: (To Abg. Dr. Haider) He doesn't understand!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! Today, the workers' chamber president of Salzburg has literally declared on the radio: That's a bag cutting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes! – The Labour Chamber President seems pretty stupid, because he doesn't understand either!]] This is in line with the workers. But the following, Mr Federal Minister, I have to ask you now – you are taxing, yes, you are setting a reference point not for actual use of a parking lot, but solely for a fictitious possibility –: How do you intend to implement this in practice? How do you want to control that? How would you handle this if today a company with 100 employees has 40 parking spaces, which are constantly used by the individual employees in the shift. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: You have, I suppose, the way your colleagues complain about the different practice! Now there has been a unification!]] No, that's not true, Minister of State! It is an impotence if only one possibility is taxed. It is right if something that is actually used is taxed if it is a service-like advantage. But this is only the possibility! You may be taxing the lottery game in addition the next time, because there is the possibility of a profit, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Pigry!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I will explain it to you again!]] This regulation is totally inaccurate! I urge you urgently and politely: Before further damage is done, withdraw this regulation!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16325	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16374	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am only going to look at the subject very briefly, where it would be interesting to pick up more than time now allows. I would like to say in advance – not as a major coalition reference – that: What the Minister of Economic Affairs, what you said today – yesterday I actually have to say – I agree to a large extent, even though we still have to talk about this or that in detail. Helmut Haigermoser, who says giving laurels in advance, is not there. I am deeply convinced – and I now know the Dr. Farnleitner for almost a quarter of a century and therefore I know that – that this man has a detailed knowledge of how only a few have. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Age is not a shame, that can have advantages as the experience comes. If you also bring along the necessary dynamics, that is, I think, of great benefit. I personally believe that Dr. Farnleitner will be able to take action and implement all that he has said today and the days before, and I would like to stress this in particular. This is the decisive one, I think, because we don't have much time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now a few words on the data that have been discussed during the past weeks and months: The data we have heard – and everyone who takes the time and deals with these data knows that – is not so bad. Our economy is not so bad. The economic location is not so bad, otherwise within a few months of this year not so many foreign investments would have been made; otherwise, it would not have been possible that our export – still Mother of our economy – would have worked despite the inconvenient environment. So it's big modo our situation is okay. But, of course, we need action in some things – and that's not health care. I believe that it is very necessary to do something quickly, especially in the field of trade regulations, and I see this as a super-concept. I mean the entire administrative simplification and debureaucratisation. There is a very urgent need for action in this area. I have already done this x-time here, and I have also taken the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs that there will be something to do in this context. It is not possible that it will take years from decisions on a day of the board to implementation. It is urgently necessary for us to arrive at short deadlines and make it possible for those investments planned to be implemented quickly, whether from abroad or from home. I do not want to say any more on the subject of trade regulation. We will hopefully have opportunity in Bälden to take care of these things in detail. It is also partly revolutionary action, we must jump over our shadows, even if there will be critical comments from there or there, from any side. We need this because we also need to give signals that we can make ourselves relatively easily independent and that it is easier to enter into an entrepreneurial activity. If we are serious about this – and I am convinced – then we also need to create the appropriate framework conditions. Export theme: I am very glad that very clear signals have been made in this area. If we look at the development of the last 40 years, we see that the development in Austria in terms of prosperity growth has always been very positive when the export industry has worked. And we have a good development, and we know that every third job depends directly or indirectly on the functioning of our external trade and every second job depends on industry. That alone must not satisfy us, however, because there is no question at all. We also need to keep in mind the areas outside the Carpartian, the other foreign countries, the Asian boomers, but also the developing countries. As a small export nation, we should not underestimate what opportunities we can have through a reasonable foreign trade policy in developing countries. An appropriate policy does not bring success within one or two years. However, a follow-up will certainly offer opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises within the next few years. We must bear in mind that we need some reassurance in this area. There are studies – which the Minister of Economic Affairs certainly knows, I am convinced – which we believe we need to catch up in different technological areas. There are a number of EU competition countries that are far better in this sector than we are. We must do something – not just talk – especially in the context of training, the mental situation, overcoming fear of thresholds against other countries in which other languages are spoken and other cultural conditions prevail. Rethinking is necessary, we agree on that. But we need to convey these ideas and give people optimism. Bad-making doesn't do anything. Instead, we have to show the chances that there is really something to do in these areas and that we can do business. In the end, we can thus create appropriate conditions in Austria for improving the workplace situation. Mr Böhacker or Mr Rosenstingl spoke on the question of apprentices. – I’m going to be a master’s, not a question. If we talk about easier access in the context of the trade order, that does not mean that I am against the master's operation at all. On the contrary: We need him, we need to erase his meaning. Because he – and we see this from the statistics – is one of the carriers of our export economy, for example to the EU countries. If we raise the social importance of the master's business, then the situation will also improve in this field and people will declare themselves willing to do something in the apprenticeship field. A sentence on the subject of border area: I am a Vienna MP, but I come from the border country. I fully agree: The more radical we do here, the better. There must be something to be done in this area. Because if today people, as in my home community, are already driving to the hairdresser across the border, then all the alarm bells are beating! We agree on this, and we need to consider which way is the right one. – I hope for a good cooperation, a good start and, above all, a quick start! – Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16456	The next item is Mr Dolinschek's speech. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16477	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Farnleitner, you have made the statement that it is not going to take the long time to work in Austria and spend the money abroad. Federal Minister! That's all right and beautiful. However, how you want to change this is on a different sheet. We are all, of course, interested in producing in Austria and spending the money in Austria. But we also know that everyone – no matter what profession he belongs to – buys where he gets things cheaper. For example, a farmer will buy the seed abroad if he gets it cheaper there. Think of the VAT rates! I just remember that, for example, in Italy, VAT is four percent for fertilizers, whereas in Austria the full percentage is increased. Austrian businesses have things produced in nearby countries, in low-cost countries, in the former Eastern Bloc States or in Slovenia, where it is much cheaper than with us if they have enough orders. And, of course, Austrian consumers also travel abroad to buy their goods there, but not only self-employed, but also self-employed and self-employed. Likewise, people don't necessarily spend their holidays in Austria, but wherever it is cheaper. – And that is not easy to limit. I have to think of the sentence you have expressed in this regard. I thought: How does he actually want to do that? – We are talking today about flexible working hours, a change in the trade regulations, the cancellation of shop opening or closing times. You said: A reform of the shop closure law is not so urgent now. – In my opinion, all of this is in need of reform – regardless of whether it is flexible working hours, business regulations or shop opening times. It must be discussed. The little Greißlers and the near-suppliers have died. There are new close-up suppliers today: In principle, these are the large gas stations that are open 24 hours a day. And there is also a certain distortion of competition in the flexibility of working time. They worked in the Chamber of Commerce and know that. So they come from the social partners. I therefore have little confidence that something will go further in this area. For example, our group made a request in 1991 that the Youth Employment Act be amended in such a way that during the summertime, for example, an apprentice can start at an hour later in the morning and stop in the evening at an hour later. In the last five years, however, it has simply not been possible to implement this in the House, because the social partners have not yet discussed it or seen any urgency in it. – As we all know, however, the holiday guest in Austria lives not after the astronomical time, but after the sun. This is why action is certainly needed in this area. But if it is not even possible to change this smallness, I doubt that there will be changes in other things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! All of us – I am convinced that you and everyone here in the House – are a matter of heart to the Austrian economy, full employment and the economic location of Austria. We - and I hope you too - will be able to make a change in the tax and promotion policies as well as in the social tax policy in Austria. We must get away from the massive taxation of labour and turn to an ecological tax system. There must be an introduction of an energy tax model and at the same time a reduction in the rate of VAT and a promotion of renewable energy. Work on that! We will closely monitor you, Minister. I'm interested in your work, and I wish you good luck, of course.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16528	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member, to make your contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16558	Mr Haigermoser! I don't have any problems you might have! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr President. Federal Minister! The display window function of politics outwards, High House, can no longer be fulfilled at this time, as I mean. It's too late to send messages to the outside, because there's no one there from the media who could record them. I can therefore limit myself to getting rid of a message internally – although relatively few recipients are present here too. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I'm here!]] This is addressed to our coalition partner. I have already wondered at the beginning and during the whole debate that I have heard from some speakers in the House, but also from the media that the ÖVP is described as a delegate of social standards, as a social degradation and so on. In connection with this recovery of health insurance, it was loud that the EIA threatened social peace. Of course, peace and peacekeeping cannot be maintained in such a way as to keep a constant eye on each other and accept the demands of the other, while the other permanently enforces his demands. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why are you watching?]] Peacekeeping cannot exist in this imbalance. I believe that social peace is also at risk because... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why are you watching?]] Social peace can also be threatened by the fact that entrepreneurs are in a situation today... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Karlheinz! You don't have to watch!]] We're not watching. [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] You saw what came out! That can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was today or yesterday that we were talking about the need for new companies and we want to create new companies, because the quota for self-employed people in Austria is very low in international comparison. This may also have to do with the fact that entrepreneurs have to deal with special problems: with high additional wage costs, with a high regulatory density and so on. The Federal Minister, however, thank God, said very clearly that there is a need for action in this context and that he is willing to act. And if we are seeking appropriate structural measures in relation to working time regulations, in relation to shop opening times and so on, this is also a contribution to ensuring social peace. The employees' partners are the employers. And these too must be able to live with the framework conditions that are set for them. Therefore, these conditions must be designed in such a way that economies are still attractive. This has not always been the case in the past. I would therefore ask you to bear in mind that the other partner of this social partnership must also be able to live with the conditions in the future. The whole thing is not as one-sided as you always presented it. If there is peace on your side, it will certainly also be shown on the business side. Therefore, peace will not be threatened, but peacekeeping will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16653	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16683	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to make some revision happen. I am now a Member of this House for a year and a half. I have heard three or four explanations on the economic situation. The surprising thing about it is: They came each from three different finance ministers and three different economic ministers. It must not be surprising if the Austrian economy can no longer build on continuity and no longer have any confidence in passed laws, if these are without any retroactive innovation. I think that further explanations to this need to be made, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, your appearance for me as a practitioner – I work independently in the gastronomy – was very unconventional today. It was a real pleasure for me that you spoke so freely from the ministerial bank. It was very interesting to listen to you, I would like to say that. There is a big difference with your colleagues, who are only giving lectures here, which are rather boring. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are berry locusts?- Oh, my God!]] Mr. Minister! However, I doubt whether you can really enforce yourself and all your declarations of will will be implemented. Our clubman has already given you support in the implementation of your ideas. I doubt that you're going to get this here in the house, but I'm going to doubt it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We've experienced a lot already. I have been confronted with three different ministers and various announcements and Sunday speeches alone since I was here. I have made the effort to browse a bit in various press releases and to look back. First of all, I came across statements by Minister Ditz, who actually had the same intention at the beginning. At a tourism access press conference, Dr. Ditz said at the time: The equity structure must be changed. The beverage tax... [[Abg. Kiss: That's snow from yesterday!]] It's not snow from yesterday! Nothing's changed yet! You probably have other problems. But we are still fighting things that have been demanded for ten or 20 years and have not been realized. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I believe that you, who know the problems of the Chamber, which are always brought to you, should respond to them. Now I'm heading back: Minister Schüssel has also presented the 10-point programme of the Chamber of Commerce. It contains nothing but our programs. I'm just asking: Why has this not been implemented? It was presented in February 1992. Now we write in 1996. I'm continuing: We're coming back to the bowl. In April 1992 he spoke of capital requirements. Competitiveness has been impaired. I'll keep browsing. Now it may also be interesting for you, colleague Tichy-Schreder, because I am coming back to the then business speaker Taus, who said the following at the Tourism Forum in Mayrhofen... [[Abg. Kiss: Was that 1914?]] No, that was not 1914, that would be – admittedly – even sadr, but it was 1989! It's been seven years, seven years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do you know what Taus said? – You will wonder! I quote literally now, and I think you will give me the right to interpret. The then economist Taus said seven years ago, according to the APA: "In addition, it should be considered whether the first-digit mortgages in Switzerland could not also act as equity surrogates in Austria." – This is nothing but what you have deposited today by the Bank of Ministers: that, according to the example of Switzerland, you strengthen the capital base with different funds and so on. Taus also said: "Moreover, the payment system of capital should be tax-privileged." – This is nothing more than ensuring that profits are taxed on reinvestment. These have been our demands for years. And the same demands came from your group in 1989! – It is seen that nothing has happened all these years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Zero Point Joseph!]] You know very well that the 10-point programme or 20-point programme, depending on it, has not been implemented. And that's the real problem in our state! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also the tourist Austria has confirmed, for example, when switching from bowl to ditz in tourism, that the loss is actually not that big, because nothing has happened anyway. So that's not just our words. You can read this everywhere, also from renowned, relatively free tourists. These were not paid by the Chamber of Commerce. So even bowl, like Ditz, didn't make it at that time. That is why we have our doubts that you too, Mr Farnleitner, will not be able to make real changes and provide assistance. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Then you disagree with your party owner! He said something else!]] For me, it has been a disappointment today that you, Mr Minister, have not lost a single word on the tax packages – because we have already lost the second one within two years. They come from the Chamber of Commerce and know all the decisions and unanimous resolutions that come from the field of economic operators. You know the concerns of your members. Why didn't you even cut this topic today or just lose a few words about it. I have there, for example, the Styrian newspaper "Mut". It's a chamber paper. This expresses the problem: "Measure package hits tourism hard", says a headline. Bundessektionsobmann Kröll says the same thing: "The most affected by budget consolidation is tourism." - I can give you all that. But you know the problems anyway, I don't need to give you the documents. This is the problem we have with you. Mr. Minister! They come from an area where you have represented the entrepreneurs. But in the moment you get here in this House, you are subject to the force of your group, even as a minister. – I wonder, honestly, not – nor do my colleagues. We often experience it from your colleagues from the Chamber of Commerce who are equally subject to the force of clubs and then keep talking differently outside with the economic operators. Mr Puttinger said at the time of the drinking tax vote that he needed to go to the toilet urgently. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I am not ashamed of that!]] Okay, I respect your need. But you can interpret what you want. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] That's what someone told me. If it's not true, you can get away with me. In any case, someone told me that Mr Puttinger had to go to the toilet urgently when voting on the drinking tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Take care of your employees! The jobs do not create you, but we do! And as long as we do well and our businesses flourish, we will have employees! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The jobs don't create you! They're driving out the workers! Unfortunately, I have to tell you. I'm really looking for you: Take the urgent and true problems immediately! A real problem remains the equity structure. You know that. And this problem is due to various massive costs from all areas. It would take too long to list all of these. Besides, I don't think I need to call it you. This is a point which must be addressed. But – and there we are again at the staff – where will the first thing be saved? – If labour costs are too high, everyone will reduce their staff, including small and medium-sized enterprises. There are then only more than four or three employees instead of five. But in the sum, that also makes a difference. To this end, I have to say the following: The bonus malus system for older workers is also totally in addition. People are now being terminated at 49 years of age – and not 50. It's just the fact... [[Abg. Silhavy: It's up to you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Who says I'm going to cancel someone? Who says that? I'm sure I won't do that. People are valuable to me, and I'm getting along with them. But there are many farms that have – You know that for sure – a black list on which the notices of termination are noted. The same is true of the discharges. We all know that. There too the shot goes in the wrong direction. This may well work for large businesses, but not for small businesses. I therefore warn against extending this in any form, because the shot will continue to go backwards, as is the case with many, many overregulations. And that's, I think, your job, too. No one says that something does not have to be regulated. But these overregulations also have an impact on the workers' disadvantages in the final effect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why haven't you done anything about the women's night work? – You know very well: They're hurting the women. – Further such examples could still be cited. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] Minister! Why did you disagree with the energy tax, if you know exactly – also from Sectionsobmann Kröll – that the energy tax is, for example, a huge burden in tourism? Think of all the facilities with indoor pool and sauna! It is required to offer ancillary services free of charge everywhere. – However, this is almost no longer possible. That goes into the hundreds of thousands: With a 200-bed hotel with free use of indoor pool, sauna and solarium, this costs the entrepreneur 150 000! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You don't have to laugh like that! The situation is sad enough, because the entrepreneur cannot overturn this to the price. This again means a reduction in the cost structure. These are really problems! As soon as the double toe is introduced, the existing image problem will of course also become an acute problem. I have to say: I am now experiencing a lot of negative mood from the German side, especially in bus tourism. It's gonna come to you! – You won’t believe what I’m telling you now: A bus operator who has about 30 or 50 buses cannot plan exactly in his tour plan which bus goes to Austria and which then picks up the guests again on the next tour. That means: Just theoretically, he needs a toll picker for his entire fleet, 30, 50 or 100 buses. Then I look at who will still lead Austria in his program! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: But yes!]] They're all far away! They all have no problem with it! Go to Germany, talk to the bus operators! I did this. But you want to ignore that! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I am more often in Germany than you are!]] The same problem arises in caravan tourism. There will be more and more people making a bow around Austria, not just because of the toll, I'm now talking about the double hat. It is not reasonable for someone to pay twice! If you drive from Nuremberg to Graz through the Bosrucktunnel and the Kleinalmtunnel, pay back and return with the Mautpickerl 790 for a normal car! You can't explain that to anyone! The Minister of Finance is now sitting back on the government bank: I'm really looking for you all seriously: Testing You will also have a certain degree of tourism compatibility with all the laws and burdens! This may be a dry word for some circles. But do something really! For there is not every law that is effective in another area for the benefit of tourism. And this way a lot of money is lost from the structure. Now I would like to address you very specifically to one thing that is already an old hat. I can't hear this myself, and it's exactly a bagatelle: It's about business lunch. By chance, the chamber newspaper in 1995 brought a large headline: "Fears have arrived. Total flea at business dinner." Mr Finanzminister! This is certainly a bagatelle for you. The lifting and handling probably cost a lot, much more. But you cannot imagine what is caused by the fact that many businesses no longer have lunch business. City businesses no longer have lunch business because businessmen say: I can only drop more than half, so we're not going to eat. Many even advertise a cook from a hood and prepare a kitchen. I am now talking about banks or insurance; You'll know for yourself. There are then own factory kitchens with hood quality. The cook is easy to turn off, because there he has a fixed working time of six hours, cooks exclusively for ten or 20 people – that's it! In this case, it is not However, the tax system also loses money, because this can be reduced as a pure operating expenditure. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Who cooks in the liberal club? How many hoods does the cook have?]] Minister! So I'm looking for you – it's a bagatelle for you – to finally send a positive signal! That's really a concern from my side! To stay in touch with the "signal": I now turn to the two Ministers of State: Please give incentives! I know you're gonna have the excuse. In times like this, it's impossible! But I'll tell you the following: Now there is still the opportunity to repair something – in three, four years the situation will look trister! It will close – as it was prophesied – in the tourism of every third farm in the next few years. How you're going to live with it, I don't know! There are more and more companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, whose owners lock up and emigrate abroad with their families. Even in my circle of acquaintances, there are already such cases. I warn you not to oppose this development!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16937	The next item is Mrs Silhavy's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16959	Mr President. Minister Klima! Minister Farnleitner! It's very interesting: Mr Rossmann once admitted from the speaker's desk – which can be read in the Minutes – that entrepreneurs are not afraid of avoiding social law, labour law and collective agreements as far as possible. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Start in your club once!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You and your group today have disqualified themselves so much in the urgent question that it is better if you behave more calmly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You know exactly that the urgent person has hit the center!]] Minister Farnleitner! If I have followed your remarks correctly, you have come to know that you are against wage dumping. They have also justified the fact that there are many farms with a wage rate of between 11 and 12 percent. This means that those farms have 88 to 89 percent different costs. President Madethaner's strong response to the arguments of ÖGB President Fritz Verzetznitsch and the general attack on the trade unions – with the twinkling of the eye towards the German automotive industry – were therefore probably more than inappropriate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's embarrassing what you suck!]] [[Call to the Freeman:Do not forget the pages!]] It is embarrassing, Mr President, that you are at most your interlocutors, but it is even more embarrassing that you do not even notice. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the Freeman: Hopefully the pages are numbered!]] In the written statement of Mr. Farnleitner's paper, the following "Macroeconomic and social stability are a prerequisite for the efficient operation of market economy processes." [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're in a coalition!]] In order to address the comments made by my colleague, Mr Head: The greatest possible approach to achieving the goal of full employment is probably the most important guarantee of social stability. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But last year you already saw!]] However, full employment also means having jobs that are life-saving and that guarantee social security for employees. [[Abg. Dr. Haider enters the meeting room.]] Mr Haider! They also give us the honour of being present on the "common" agenda, with the exception of giving us the honour to be present! That's very pleasing! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Then you have to be there more often! Then you'd see him more often!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The reduction in part-time unemployment, which has been shown in their written declaration on the Netherlands, is hardly true in those cases where people have to pay their living through part-time work. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Part-time work continues to be offered mainly by the Austrian economy in those areas where low wage levels and often poor working conditions do exist. [[Call to the liberals:Read for a long time!]] It will never be slow enough for you to follow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Part-time work is also often used for flexibilization. Flexibility according to the motto: Today it is too hot, there are no customers coming, the seller can go home after an hour instead of after four hours. This working time must work on a free afternoon she wanted to spend with the child. I hope, Minister of State, that this kind of flexibility will be rejected by all of us. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A little slower, not so hectic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't be so nervous!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nervous are at most you, because you can't even listen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to the repeatedly mentioned shop opening times, I ask you: How flexible are companies if employees want to consume their leisure time in associated leisure blocks? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Against you Mrs. Annemarie Reitsamer fades!]] Working time flexibility must not be a one-way road, which ultimately leads to a dead end for the worker. On page 7 of your written document, it is stated that the tax burden is often unbearable, but the table on page 98 of the economic report of the Federal Government of 1996. In this report, only Greece, Portugal, France and Turkey have lower income taxes – in relation to gross domestic product – than Austria. With regard to the question of the support of small and micro-enterprises with regard to information procurement, Mr Federal Minister, I give you the right. But I assume that the Chamber of Commerce is also required on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You really accepted that!]] I very much like the statement that qualifications and training are to be regarded as an essential point. However, I already ask you what the economy is doing to enable workers to learn lifelong learning. I often have the impression that the qualification offensive is not carried out in the firms but is transferred to the labour market service. Your written statement ends by stating that we are per capita in the front of the world economy and in the top of the EU, as measured by gross domestic product. That is why I am following the fact that in Austria we have a high share of value added by the good performance of employees. [[Call to the liberals:Hänsel and Gretel and the red cap!]] In order to maintain this high quality and to secure local jobs, the economy will also have to become an industrial education and, above all, further training. I hope that this path will also be pursued in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17199	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The early hour does not relieve you of the obligation to hold back. Deputies! You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17260	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first year following accession to the European Union, the Austrian export industry has cut off better than most experts have adopted. A real increase of 8 per cent in exports is significant from both an international and EU point of view. To further promote and support this development is one of the most important tasks of economic policy. Nearly every second job in our economy is directly or indirectly linked to export or dependent on external trade and tourism. Market opportunities in our neighbouring neighbouring countries have been used accordingly by a large part of our export economy, not only by large businesses but also by small and medium-sized enterprises. For many businesses, the markets of Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Upper Italy and sometimes even Alsace have become home markets. This positive development was favoured by the tax reform launched in 1994, which helped the Austrian economy to make a significant improvement. It is now more important to safeguard our site benefits through targeted infrastructure investments. The technical revolution – especially in the communications sector – is now taking place. I am afraid that, if we do not make any energetic efforts in this regard, we will be faced with our competitors. A good infrastructure must be available to enable a company to settle, it is the interface of a company to the outside world: Transport, communication, labour force resources. It is therefore absolutely necessary to train workers in an economic, practical manner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A step has been taken in the right direction with the technical universities, whereby permeability – currently only around 9 per cent of students from the field of teaching – can be improved by targeted measures, such as professional maturity examination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The eastern opening has upgraded Austria's economic location. In my opinion, however, this location advantage is limited in time. It is therefore appropriate to strengthen activities to build up a critical mass of service activities and headquarters functions, particularly in the banking, consulting and insurance sectors, so that we are not overwhelmed by our Western competitors who are increasingly pushing on these markets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is also the following: Not the bigger, but the more flexible and faster will be able to rise in the market. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Very capitalist!]] Thank you, Mr. State Secretary. Of course, the technology centres in many regions – new future and technology parks in which various companies join together and create new, attractive jobs in the higher technology sector – and the transfer of Austrian and international know-how, which helps the economy, are also within the country. A single currency will strengthen the economic location of Europe and thus Austria. Through the globalisation of the economy, targeted location marketing will be of crucial importance in the future. In my view, this factor is the prerequisite to be able to rise in the Pacific and Asian markets which we have neglected so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also very important for the tourism country of Austria that our reputation rise again abroad so that more guests again accept our recognised good tourist offer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I didn't even give such speeches when I came into this house!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter, please go!]] Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner! I am very grateful to you for their statements on improving the capital situation of Austrian companies. I see more and more three categories of businesses: the good that are getting better and accounting for more than 40 percent of equity. Furthermore, the medium-sized enterprises, which can still grow up on the market and take advantage of their opportunities, and the less good that are becoming more and more distressed by increased competition and can hardly be kept on the market even because of low risk capital. It is therefore necessary to substantially simplify and facilitate access to the capital market for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is extremely important that targeted financing models are developed, in particular for the sectors concerned, which will improve the risk capital situation – in the form of participations, acquisitions of liability or funds for smaller enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Savings can facilitate new business start-ups. However, the reduction of bureaucracy, targeted deregulation and simplification of plant rights in the event of new start-ups and extensions are particularly important for our businesses. In any case, there is a need to stop the regulatory will on various issues and regulations. Regulations must be based on the absolutely necessary level. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that we all jointly contribute to positive measures and signals in order to improve the psychological situation in our businesses so that a new mood of departure is given. This is the only way we will be able to secure jobs in the future and successfully defend Austria's economic location against our competitors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17359	Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17380	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make a few comments on the construction industry at an early hour. There has already been a great deal of discussion today, but the construction industry has not yet been mentioned. I think we should also lose a few words on this sector in this economic debate. After the construction industry experienced an unusually long expansion phase in 1988, the construction economy has been very weak since the spring of 1995. Last year, the Austrian construction industry generated sales of 131.5 billion schilling, which means a nominal decline in production of 1.1 percent compared to the previous year. However, the different development between building and civil engineering is to be maintained. While in 1995 construction services continued to increase, which is mainly due to the continued residential construction offensive – in particular the public sector – since we are still increasing rates of approximately 11.6 percent, the construction of the building was down 3.5 percent. This was mainly due to the lack of public and private construction services in road construction. Fewer orders, decreases in sales and, last but not least, the severe winter of 1995/96 did not cause any relaxation of the situation for the construction industry until spring. As a result, a number of major insolvencies and, unfortunately, the resulting decline in employment, which ultimately led to an increase in unemployment in these areas. Especially the construction industry, ladies and gentlemen, has always been characterised by a strong impact on the overall economy – due to very high domestic value added and high employment efficiency. A construction investment of, for example, a billion Schillings has an average of about 1,700 employees, with housing being at the forefront of about 1,800 employees. In view of the situation, it was urgent for us Social Democrats to do something for the construction industry and, above all, for the workers there. In addition to the many general measures to ensure employment and economic location, we have also adopted specific measures for the construction industry in the Government Convention and in the budget consolidation programme as well as for various construction peaks. These measures will secure or create tens of thousands of jobs. I would just like to briefly mention the most important elements of the construction offensive under way: For example, it was agreed to increase the federal expenditure by around 800 million Schilling – 600 million Schilling for federal road construction and 200 million Schilling for federal building. The introduction of the road pricing system, which will apply to trucks and to passenger cars from 1998 onwards and from 2001 onwards, is in line with my group's long-standing demand, which will enable more cost-reliance, especially in the transport sector and the closure of motorway gaps in the future. It is now the task of the new Minister of Economic Affairs to ensure the flow of money quickly. He has already been greatly praised today, and I hope that we will also work very well in the field of construction. Only in this way will it finally come to the so urgently needed orders in road construction – especially in the area of road construction in Vienna. As a further step towards redesigning the management of the high-level road network, as I have already repeatedly called for, a single country-wide society could be created which could transfer the rights of use on the high-level road network, but also the debts of ASFINAG. Now some more ideas on the construction industry. The sale of federal real estates could provide 3 billion Schilling funds for the Federal Building Investments. The new Rail Infrastructure Act will bring up to 60 billion schilling of investments within the next five years. The Bundesmobiliengesellschaft will be increasingly used for residential projects. The increase in housing development and the increase in the maximum contribution of construction savings also release construction investments of more than 2.5 billion schilling. The increase in the amount of investment is expected to activate an investment volume of an estimated 2 billion schilling annually. The environmental promotion of the federal government will be increased by around 3 billion schilling in the area of settlement-water construction and in the area of old load renovation and security. I also do not want to mention the 30-billion infrastructure investment programme for Vienna. This allows the subway, the S-Bahn and necessary trams to be further expanded and improved and Park & Ride facilities built. Furthermore, the establishment of a university on the Donaucityplatte and investment in the renovation and construction of federal schools are planned. Overall, these measures for infrastructure – apart from direct employment and economic development – mean strengthening Austria's economic location, increasing the quality of life in our country, and significantly more environmental protection. What we do – and also in the past – ladies and gentlemen, can also be seen in the example of housing. However, I would just like to say today, given the advanced period, that not least thanks to the responsible and far-sighted economic policies of the Social Democrats, the situation in the housing sector is particularly encouraging. The housing performance has been extremely high over the last few years. After all, this is an increase of more than 10 percent, which needs to be stressed here. For us Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of these efforts to build housing mean not only the boosting of the construction economy, but also the setting of employment impulses and the social commitment to be able to provide affordable and manageable housing, especially for young people. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me once again say to the Minister of Finance that in the field of housing, the capital income tax exemption of residential bonds should be increased as quickly as possible. This would also benefit the construction industry and create thousands of new jobs and apartments. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17447	The next speaker is Mr Kröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17468	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The topic and the ideas of the new Minister for Economic Affairs and the economic report and a report by the Minister of Finance on the opportunities and situation of Austria would have already been 'deserved' in itself that, as planned, all speakers could have a serious discussion here in the House and discuss each other's arguments. I said "sitting." However, as a younger member of this House, I must say this now, it is increasingly true that time is also a reason for conversation. That's exactly what goes in there. Whether to be surprised or annoyed, this should be left to everyone. But you should think about both. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's normal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not normal, in my opinion, for a minister to imagine, who has been concerned with both advance-bodies and rejections, who today has offered a picture of seriosity, of saddle-resistance, of experience, and who has raised very important problems – and we know that we have a lot to do with the convergence criteria in Europe alone – the High House must deal with other things for seven hours in advance. That's really to be questioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to have said that in all forms. As my previous speakers have commented in detail on this, in the end, Mr Ellmauer – I would have done so too – I have only yet to report and have not been removed from the list of speakers, because I am particularly guilty of tourism. I come from this sector and know that many hard-working employees are working hand in the enterprises, in the places, in the associations, in the country, down to the federation. We also have concerns here, but also great opportunities. I also think it is quite easy to ask and invite the new Minister to do all he can in his performance as Head of State and to implement the statement. I am optimistic, despite the more difficult conditions – both as regards the economic location of Austria within Europe and our position and role in tourism. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Which framework conditions have become more difficult?- Oh, my God!]] 170 000 workers work in 60 000 establishments. The importance for municipalities and rural areas in particular is great. The depopulation must be stopped. There must also be quality of life and good infrastructure there. But it would be an advantage for all of you, if I were to go into it in detail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein and Dr. Stummful.]] Much has been said, and on other occasions we will certainly have the opportunity to look at it more closely. A little protest is there – now is a very easy mood. However, I ask you: The mood should not be too loose, for this the problem is too serious! We should think about all of this, otherwise it might go in a wrong direction. Some impressions are not so beneficial. But I already have to emphasize: Important things are to be devoted more time than unimportant.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17538	Mr Parnigoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17559	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In itself, Parliamentary Kröll is absolutely right. Whether you practice passive resistance, take your concept, settle down, or simply agree with the fact that others use the Rules of Procedure without measure and hold us here for seven hours, everyone remains left to himself. I don't want to do that. [[Abg. Kiss: (in the direction of the liberals) You will not do it for long!]] That's your opinion! That is not always the case, but in this case it is. Some thoughts on tourism policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The 1996 Economic Report, which has been presented to us today, states in item 4/8 on tourism policy that the expenditure for tourism and leisure industry in 1995 amounted to 400 billion schilling, 38.5% of which were spent by foreign guests and 61.5 percent by Austrians. Secondly, in the last monthly Wifo report – for example – I have read that the negative development in tourism is due not only to special factors we all know, such as: German reunification, depreciation in competition countries, cheap flight prices et cetera, but to significant structural weaknesses. The Wifo report also states that there are many signs that great efforts and radical rethinking of the strategies applied so far are needed in order to maintain a relatively high market share. Ladies and gentlemen! An article by the excreted Federal Minister Ditz in the anniversary edition of the ÖGZ bears the title "Tourism, the Unknown Being". A regional minister must admit, as it were, that federal competence in tourism and the leisure industry has been neglected for many years and that tourism has remained one of the most important sectors of the domestic economy, an "unknown being". Ladies and gentlemen! Three contributions that I have mentioned, which represent a picture of the situation in tourism today; many proposals have been made. Mr Rossmann has "prayed down" the whole latte, and Mr Peter has now increased the number of beds to be taken out of the market from 300,000 beds to 400,000 beds. [[Abg. May. Peter: Not to be taken! That's all by itself!]] Federal Minister! You have also made very important and superior proposals on tourism policy today, in my opinion. In this context, I should like to mention just a few points of view of the Socialists. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that structural reforms in the field of federal funding are necessary. For example, cooperation should be strengthened and promoted in order to produce more quality rather than quantity. I have always put one-time grants instead of interest subsidies in the foreground of my claims, because I am also convinced that this is a measure to strengthen the equity base, which, in addition to the model of the "eternal mortgage" introduced by Mr Farnleitner, could be a useful addition. We have also proposed fundamental reforms in vocational training. I believe that we must make one step further in this area. We also need to force the creation of full-year working-time models that make long-term employees with appropriate skills and social rights from seasonal workers. In discussions at a meeting in Vorarlberg, in which experts from all areas of tourism, namely federal government, countries, regions and the business sector, took part, we agreed on a model which assumes that regional tourism organisations and related activities are to be understood as a future funding project. These regional tourism organisations are intended to coordinate the networking of tourism infrastructure at the operational, local and local level and to create a range of services dedicated to each region and target group. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that in the future we must understand tourism policy as an integral part of a comprehensive leisure policy, and I am also convinced that the quality concept of the future has nothing to do with quantity. Rather, quality means meeting expectations. These expectations will be highly individual. This future quality, of course, also refers to staff. That is, the satisfaction of the guests can only be generated by high attention, by working communication. This, in turn, requires competent, motivated employees. I am convinced of this, Minister: I believe that some, perhaps too many business representatives, have taken too little account of this fact. Minister of State Dr. Farnleitner! I wish you every success in the implementation of your demands, your proposals and hope that many of my - or our - proposals will be realized. Federal Minister! I offer you constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17617	The last speaker on this point is Mrs Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17638	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In view of this late hour, I will refrain from dealing with the lack of apprenticeship training and the problem that arises in the medium term due to the lack of skilled workers, which is why there are fewer companies for the economy. I would like to wish you every success in your work, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs. With these wishes, however, I attach the expectation that, like Minister Klima, you will work for the industrial core country of Upper Styria, because it is a region where there is a great need for reprisal. I expect you to support our efforts to achieve the urgently needed infrastructure and in particular the Semmering Base Railway and Road Tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17669	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (134 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979 (BDG-Novelle 1996), the Wage Law 1956, the Pension Law 1965, the Additional Fees Act, the Karenz Leaves Fees Act, the Contractual Service Law 1948, the Federal Forest Service Regulations 1986, the Contributory Act, the Law 1989, the Land Teacher Service Law 1984, the Land and Forestry Law on Service Law 1985, the Richter Service Act and the Federal Staff Representative Act (189 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Requests 104/A of Deputies Edith Halle Rund Comrades concerning a Federal Law amending the Civil Service Law 1979, the Income Law 1956, the Pension Law 1965, the Landeslehrer Service Law 1984 and the Landeslehrer Service Law 1985 (190 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (155 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Land and Forestry Law on the Service of the State (1985) (211 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17726	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. These are proposals from the Constitutional Committee or the Education Committee. The rapporteur on points 4 and 5 is Mr Dr Kräber. I ask him to open the debate with his two reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17744	Mr President. High house! First of all, I will report to the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template 134 of the Supplements, BDG-Novelle. The Committee held the Committee's meeting on 18 and 18 November. Negotiating on June. An amendment was tabled, and a resolution was also tabled. The draft law was partly adopted unanimously, partly by a majority vote, taking account of the amendment. The motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority vote. The Constitutional Committee proposes that the draft law be given constitutional approval and that the resolution be adopted. I shall also report on the motion for a resolution 104/A by Mr Haller and Mr Comrades on a federal law amending the Civil Service Law 1979 and others. ==References====External links== Negotiating on June. The proposal for an initiative was not approved by the majority of the Committee. I propose that the National Council take note of this report. I think there's another report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17785	The rapporteur on item 6 is Mr Brader. I also ask him for his report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17800	Mr President. High house! I will report on the Government template 155 of the Supplements to a federal law amending the Land and Forestry Law on Service Law. The presentation was discussed in the Committee on Education and was adopted by a majority vote. It concerns points of definition, redundancy due to lack of work success, performance fixing, certain time-limits, objectives and other service-related adaptations to the BDG. At the time of the vote, the draft law contained in the Government template was adopted by a majority vote, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Höchtl and Dr Niederwieser. As a result of its deliberations, the Education Committee therefore requests that the National Council approve the draft bill annexed to the written report. If there are any statements, I would ask Mr President to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17830	I would like to thank both rapporteurs for their comments. The following speaking time was set for the debate: SPÖ 30, ÖVP 28, Free 26 Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17860	Mr President. High house! Mr. State Secretary! The infinite history of Civil Service Law continues this calendar year, for the second time, and this is nothing new: You have already announced last year that you will present a Federal Workers' Act at the end of this year and will also bring it in and present it to the House. This will ultimately eliminate the differences between the conditions for contract staff and officials. For me personally, the situation is this way: If one has to recognize that in November 1995 a novel to the Civil Service Law took place, in April 1996 a new novel was made, and we already have to experience the second novel in this financial year, in June 1996, then the question arises whether you will be able to complete a uniform Federal Workers' Act until the end of the year, or whether your staff are blocked by permanent repairs of the Civil Service Law, especially since – and that is nothing new – a possible Federal Workers' Act will initially create more costs. You hear the sum of 2 billion schillings over and over again! Mr State Secretary! I ask you: Is it realistic that in this legislative period we can come to a uniform Federal Workers' Act – or will it continue to be repaired and mistakes of the past will be corrected? And: How will the additional cost of the budget be covered? Or is this uniform law already announced by you a new contribution to a burden package of 2,000 million schilling? In view of four to five novels, these questions are raised in the Civil Service Service Law per year – and this has been happening for years. In the end, this shows the inconsistency of the "small social partners" between the Federal Chancellery and the Public Service Trade Union. These novels are product of a sloppy legislation, a legislation that permanently repairs. Finally, it is always only about the exchange of interests; it creates a desire, no matter from which side an initiative comes, so that we are constantly forced to make repairs. For this reason, we have also called for separate votes, as has already been done in the Committee itself. In particular, we reject the provisions of Article 2 of the Wage Law, Article 3 of the Pension Act and Article 5 of the Pension Law and will also proceed accordingly with the separate vote in this regard. In fact, these are worsening measures, measures taken by the Structural Adjustment Act as a result of the sloppy and non-concepted procedure. It was simply forgotten to include certain points, possibly due to the pressure and haste, since the Structural Adjustment Act was adopted in April. The cost question for a possible overall solution to this problem will still be very important to us. It is in fact for us to ask whether you want to continue in the future or whether you will find a solution that is cost-neutral, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As soon as possible, I would like to make a point of principle at this last meeting of the Constitutional Committee. We must note that Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, obviously is not very much at heart. It was really inappropriate for Klubobmann Kostelka, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to wait the entire Constitutional Committee almost 30 minutes to see if he has the grace to give us his presence or not, without informing him whether he will come or not. After half an hour, a SPÖ club secretary to Mr Donabauer of the ÖVP, Kostelka's deputy, had to inform him first that Mr Kostelka was not coming to this meeting of the Constitutional Committee, which is going through important matters, and that he had the message that he had been unprepared and uninformed to take over the Presidency. And it is clear that then, as in the past several times, catastrophic mistakes occur again and again, which are at the limit of visibility for the opposition, ladies and gentlemen! What happened? – By order of course, a request from my colleague, Mrs Frischenschlager, was made to set up an investigation committee, to allocate a resolution tabled by the coalition and to this committee of inquiry on the request submitted by Mr Haller. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a subcommittee! Stadler has already had to correct you objectively!]] I mean, Subcommittee. Excuse me! You can be wrong, too! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: First teach Kostelka what manners are, then speak well!]] In the vote itself, Mr Donabauer obviously made a wrong order in the vote on him or arranged them out of uninformedness. This was then resolved amically, and these votes were carried out again, in the correct order, with the result that Mr Donabuer forgot to vote on the motion for a resolution. Now I read the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I must say that this motion for a resolution, which has not been voted on, is today on the debate or on the vote – yet it has been misrepresented in the official protocol. That's what I'm asking myself: Who, then, has signed this protocol and checked whether there are actually the proper applications which are under negotiation today? And something else: Mr Kostelka is working on this motion for a resolution but was not present at all. There has already been a debate on the Rules of Procedure in the Committee. Finally, although this motion for a resolution has been voted on once, this vote has been withdrawn. The amendment had been adopted unanimously at the first vote. However, the official protocol states that this motion for a resolution is said to have been recommended by a majority vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very worrying that we are getting documents for negotiation here, which do not reflect the actual circumstances in the committees! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think that the House or the House will be able to take such a course of action which, I would like to expressly stress, had its origin in the unpunished absence of Mr Kostelka. He did not inform anyone and ultimately left colleagues Donabauer in the rain. We all know that, if Mr Donabauer has to take over the Presidency surprisingly, he is obviously overwhelmed with this. We had a similar problem once, half a year ago, and it then came to a huge voting margin. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we can negotiate this motion for a resolution here today and vote on it. In any case, we will be able to review this and we will be in the same position as the Committee when we vote on the other proposals that are being discussed today. I would ask the President to check whether these reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights are in any case in line with the documents, namely the documents which should be filed in the President's office, so that we can negotiate them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17931	Mr Mag. Stadler to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17952	Mr President. As the report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights clearly does not correspond to the actual outcome of the Committee's meeting, and as Mr Graf has now pointed out, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer and Mr Kostelka has not been voted on and it is impossible to believe that this motion could have been adopted by a majority of votes, I do not believe that it should be discussed. . I ask you, Mr President, to make an appropriate clarification in front of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17976	Deputies! I shall review this matter with the motion for a resolution. However, we are continuing in the debate, and I am now giving the floor to Mrs Dr Karlsson.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18001	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I think we were at two different meetings, although they were the same Constitutional Committee. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there was no need for an investigation committee to be set up. I didn't know what and what. [[Abg. May. Subject: Subcommittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He did that right!]] No, no, no, My previous speaker spoke of the request made by Mr Freshenschlager for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. The same was said of Parliament, neither of them, nor of anyone else. It has been referred to here by a committee of inquiry. But there was no such desire on the agenda either! [[Abg. Scheibner: Go to Kostelka!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where was Kostelka?]] That's not for the debate! There is a chairman, there is an alternate, there are x meetings where the alternates are holding the meetings! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kostelka didn't apologize!]] In addition: In my memory, the motion for a resolution was voted very well. There has been a lot to do with a request from the honourable Member for a subcommittee to set up a subcommittee. But there was no discussion on the motion for a resolution. However, you also have a Rules of Procedure in mind that someone who submits an application will have to be in committee until the vote on this request. First of all, there is no such thing as the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I can remember that there were x plenary sessions in which Mr Haider & Co. made proposals; when they were then voted, however, the applicants were all gone! We are all day-to-day, but the applicants of the request have not been there for a long time! – For others, you just want to be beckmesse, they should do everything very well! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Kostelka has let us wait half an hour!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the procedure in the Committee. – It is therefore all right to vote here. You cannot even distinguish between a subcommittee and a committee of inquiry. You should therefore not talk about the Rules of Procedure at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't give yourself that way! Give your clubman a better way!]] Of manners: Their failures today, especially those of Clubobmann Haider at the Dringliche... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Deputies! I've never let you wait half an hour! I'd never let you wait!]] It has nothing to do with manners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it would be useful to devote itself to the content as well. Mr Graf said nothing about the content of these provisions, except that he did. Obviously, he didn't read through that either – or he doesn't know about it. It is true that one of the most important provisions – and I do not know why you do not even recognize the praise – concerns administrative simplification. This is something with which State Secretary Schlögl, although you always want to put a haxl on him, really does work in peace and conzis: Various ways of implementing administrative simplifications are discussed. For example, the processing of the child allowance – the first provision – was clearly simplified. If you look at the text, you can see that the regulations have been simplified and concentrated. We should all recognize that, and we should agree to that. However, you always have to find a herb in the soup! That's the problem with you! You can't say: Yeah, that's a good thing! The provisions concerning contract assistants have also been amended. They have also been adapted to the changed position of Austria in Europe. I have to say: Some provisions are not so important, such as those relating to the various titles at the post office. But this too must be done bureaucraticly, and it has been done in this matter of law. Mr Schlögl has done a really good job and continues to do it, and our group will be happy to give its approval to these provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18152	Mr Mag. Stadler to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18173	Mr President. I would ask you, on behalf of my group, to interrupt a session until the matter of dealing with this apparently uncoordinated motion for a resolution has been resolved in the Constitutional Committee. For I, like my group, am interested not to have to listen to me without any lethargic suggestions from a speaker on a request that is not supposed to be under consideration!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18198	Mr Klubomann Dr. Khol on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18219	Mr President. I was present to this committee myself. I've been following the vote. In fact, the first voting process had been prepared by the secretariat in a way that the requests had been voted in the wrong order. The process was expressed in agreement with all the political groups, and it was then voted in the proper order.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18249	Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to say the following to the Rules of Procedure: We cannot carry out a procedure of proof in the course of a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mag. Stadler! I have caused the official protocol to be made available to me through this committee, which is the original act. I shall determine whether or not the vote has been taken on the basis of this Protocol. This finding will take place before voting in plenary. The next item is Mr Dr. Frischenschlager's speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18279	Mr President. My Honourable Members of the Federal Government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Firstly, on the material aspects to be reported from this Constitutional Committee. I want to make it short: The Novelle Civil Service Law contains a series of innovations that bring improvements within this system, concerning the children's allowance and the contract assistants' complex, and also changes to the law on the remuneration of teaching and examination activities at universities. Of course, on all three materials, it was possible to say a few things about the systematic one, especially with regard to university staff. I think it is high time we put our higher education law on a completely new basis. Then, too, the materials that are now being discussed will find their legal end. And I think that's good. But within the existing system, the templates include an improvement, and therefore they find our consent. Of course, at this meeting of the Constitutional Committee, the overall processes were interesting. This has already begun with the fact that the meeting took place on a day when everyone had already been overburdened. The sitting started at almost half an hour late, and then Mr Donabauer did not actually take the vote... [[Abg. Scheibner: Why did the meeting begin half an hour later?]] They were looking for the president. However, it was found by the alternate. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Presidency search" sounds funny!]] That can happen! In my opinion, however, the main thing is the voting behaviour with regard to Mr Haller's request for a new regulation of the time of the civil service. I therefore believe, especially with regard to the forthcoming reform of the Rules of Procedure, that we should take a closer look at this process. What really bothered me was the following: An opposition party has submitted a relatively comprehensive request concerning civil service law, time division et cetera. This is a draft which I believe should be subject to a broader discussion. But how does something like that end up in the high house? – If an opposition party makes a request, then once the government side goes and assigns it to any other matter. In the specific case, this request of the liberals, in my opinion completely superfluous, was brought together with the government template. Although he bears the same title on matter, there is a big difference in content in that the government proposal refers to very specific aspects of civil servants' rights. However, the FPÖ application was about a rapid revision of the terms of service in civil servants' law, if I may formulate it in this way. The request therefore went much further. This means that it has been added to the Government's proposal, that is to say, it will be negotiated jointly and then voted on jointly. On the agenda these two issues were then also brought together in a debate. And that's exactly what bothers me. For I think that a Parliament should deal with extensive requests, including opposition, in a material way. And this has not happened in this case. – That was the reason why I requested the setting up of a subcommittee for this request: So that we can discuss this request in detail. That was meaning and purpose of the matter. I am inexplicable about the fact that, for my really inexplicable reasons, the chairman, because it was negotiated in one and then voted in a block, first made the material request for the vote and then my request for a subcommittee. But Mr Khol is right: In order not to stage a big theater, we have re-assumed this thing and have then voted again. However, I must say that I do not remember the vote on Mr Kostelka's motion for a resolution. I really can't remember that! [[Abg. Haller: That's it! It was not voted!]] I hope that the Official Protocol will provide information on this. What I have to say about this: It is, of course, a special Gaudi that, if an opposition group makes a request which has a relative width materially, then the government side is practically putting in place a motion for a resolution which refers to the declaration of government, so that the grand situation arises that the government is calling upon the government to do something that is at all in the Government Declaration. This is a procedure that simply does not satisfy the intentions of an oppositional application! I believe that, in the reform of the Rules of Procedure, we must ensure that the opposition's requests also experience their own procedural fate in this House. I consider a separate discussion and a separate vote to be an important matter in this context. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As I said, It was somewhat chaotic at this meeting. However, since the issue of the question of the time-limit for civil service should in fact be discussed and this subject should be discussed in detail, I would like, after there has been no majority in favour of setting up a subcommittee in the Constitutional Committee, to call on the House to carry out this matter of its own treatment, and therefore I would like to make the following request: Request by Dr. Frischenschlager and colleagues to refer the motion 104/A to the Constitutional Committee "The National Council wants to decide that the application 104/A of Deputies Haller and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Civil Service Law 1979, the Income Law 1956, the Pension Law 1965, the Land Teacher Service Law 1984, the Agricultural and Forestry Law on Services 1985, as amended by the Committee's report (190 of the Supplements) is referred to the Constitutional Committee for further consideration." [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think we should give the Constitutional Committee the opportunity to deal with this important aspect of administrative reform and to open up a debate on the basis of the request of the liberals. I do not like the request of the liberals, but this should be discussed. That would be the sense of parliamentary debate. That is why I have tabled this request for referral back. Furthermore, the Government’s documents on civil servants’ service law will be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18373	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to state the following on the question whether the motion for a resolution is the subject of today's debate: I have come to the original act which contains the Official Protocol to the Committee's meeting. It is clear from this act that Members Neugebauer, Dr Kostelka and colleagues have tabled the motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/1, I/A. As regards the voting process, it is explicitly stated that: Supplement 1/1 – that is this motion for a resolution – has been accepted by the majority, and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the Freedom Party have voted in favour of it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who was that? – The Greens were not there!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This Protocol has been signed by the representative of the Obmann and by the author. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: He hasn't been there!]] There were no objections within the meaning of § 38 para. 4 of the Business Regulations Act, on the other hand. Therefore, I must start from this act, this resolution is also the subject of negotiations today's debate. Mr Stadler, once again on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18424	Mr President. First of all, I note that the elected scribes were at least not present at the Committee meeting. Secondly, Mr President, you have now said that this request has obviously been adopted unanimously. In the report, however, it says: "mostly accepted". . I would ask you, on behalf of my group, to consult this act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18454	You can take an insight into the act. However, I would like to say once again: It is not possible to carry out a procedure of proof on a committee matter within the framework of a debate on the Rules of Procedure. As chairman of the committee, I have the right to take up the matter. I have not said that the motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously, but most of it has been adopted by three groups of the House. The chairman at this meeting was deputy Donabauer, and writer was Dr. Cap. That's the situation. – It is against this logging within the meaning of § 38 para. 4 no objection has been raised. That is why we are starting from this record. The motion for a resolution is therefore an issue in this debate. The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18484	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! President Neisser has now found that due to the insight into the act of the Constitutional Committee this motion for a resolution has been dealt with correctly and has come to the vote correctly. [[Abg. May. Main: A writer who was not there at all!]] What is the point of this motion for a resolution? . This motion for a resolution concerns the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in which he is invited to present a novel to the Civil Service Law, whose aim is to have as much flexibility as possible in the classification of working time for the Federal Service. I believe that this is an issue that all the political groups in this House can actually agree to, regardless of the current debate, how this has happened formally. Mr Khol, who was present at this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has confirmed that it has been done correctly, at least in the second passage, because the first vote has been re-assembled. This is also reflected in the Official Protocol. Let's stay there. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Did you ask if the cap was there?]] Now it's being checked. If this is really a concern of the political groups, at least the content of this motion for a resolution should be taken into account. There is indeed the possibility that all political groups will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, at least in plenary session. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to comment briefly on a legislative matter which is being dealt with in this package, namely the Land and Forestry Law on the Service Law. We dealt with the Landeslehrer Service Law a few weeks ago. The Land and Forestry Law on the Service of Land Teachers is an almost identical version – with some system differences; therefore, essentially, a corresponding adaptation to all that was decided in the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz. For example, in order to mention only one case, it is now also laid down in the agricultural and forestry law that the directors can be ordered on time for the first time, i.e. for four years, and only then definitely will they be adopted. We from the Austrian People's Party agree with these proposals, i.e. not only the Land- and Forestry Law on Service Law Novelle, but also the others, and we believe that these will lead to substantial improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18541	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18563	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Karlsson, with her speech, has made a very ghastly attempt to go beyond the unpunished distance of the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy Kostelka. Mr Khol, on the other hand, has tried to make the wall of the Deputy President-in-Office of the Council on the basis of the chaotic voting procedures in this committee. For my part, I can only hold the following: I was at this committee meeting from the beginning to the end, and there was no second vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the government parties. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It was rare that neither of the two scribes was present in the voting procedures. Mr Cap was only brief in committee, then left, no longer appeared, and Mr Frieser was not present at all. – These are the facts. On the matter itself: As an applicant, I am particularly sorry that my request does not come up from the subject at all. These are new regulations in the field of part-time work. So far, these have only been made up of big empty words and announcements. A Polish poet once said: There are so great empty words that it is possible to hold entire peoples captive. – One could almost apply this wisdom to part-time work in Austria. Let us look at, for example, the ÖVP jubilee newspaper "Die Austrian Frau", in which Minister Martin Bartenstein, surveyed at part-time jobs, says: It would be important for the public sector to move forward with a good example, creating a more flexible and time-limited opportunity for part-time work. – This is exactly the demand that we want to meet with our request. Another example: If today the new Minister, Johannes Farnleitner, has told us in his speech that there have been nearly two million new jobs in the Netherlands since 1971, largely involving part-time jobs, and that the effect on unemployment, in the positive sense, was not insignificant, in this context he demands a part-time offensive, that is exactly what we would like to achieve with this request. Germany has been responding for a long time in this area, and a part-time offensive has been launched there, an action programme for more employment and growth. The same activities should also be carried out in Austria. The Federation should set a signal and move forward with a good example. Since then, the Germans have written out all jobs in the federal government for part-time jobs, which has led to 20 percent of all officials in Germany working part-time, both female and male. In Austria, on the other hand, one is fully involved in sleeping this trend. We employed 7 percent of all employees in the part-time sector, but only in less qualified areas. It is simply not enough, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties and on the government bank, if one is always talking about the need for family and work to be better compatible, but then does not send any signals in this direction at all. In our neighbouring countries, we have seen the high acceptance of such part-time offensives. Austria is really under compulsion. – We liberals want workers, in this case, to be granted the federal voluntary possibility of working time arrangements between 50 and 100 per cent – which is not yet available. The Federal Government would also have an advantage: the Employers' Federation would thus have the possibility of more flexible staffing. – In particular, the examples of Germany and the Netherlands have shown that such part-time offensives are also a valuable contribution to combating unemployment. But in Austria, you still have scams on it. The proper application of our application would also not entail any additional costs or a disadvantage to part-time employment in the award of leadership positions. However, it must be stressed that appropriate application is required. Before this whole scenario, the request for freedom is rejected, although State Secretary Schlögl has agreed that in his opinion there are proposals in this request, whose implementation he could easily imagine. For detailed treatment, my colleague has even called for a subcommittee to be set up. I'd be very glad if such a thing were to happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and you, Mr Schlögl, too, are really very naked in this matter. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: "Nacty"?]] Yes! Nude, uncovered! This resolution, simply introduced as an alibi by the government parties, contains such vague wording that it is simply insufficient to cover these blushes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You really have to say that. It has only been submitted so that one does not get tempted to agree once to a request from the liberals, a request which is really good in the most widest areas. Mr State Secretary! You have admitted to me, because of my origins, that you are in the process of developing a new law for this area. You have also drawn up the timetable that you want to do this by the end of the summer and bring in an appropriate government proposal by the end of the year: the agreement of the trade union public service provided. And that's what it seems to be doing. However, they were not at all ready to agree to at least a time limit for this alibi resolution request, Mr State Secretary, my intention. That is why I must say: Mr State Secretary, the message I hear is: The first part of a proverb. That means: While a free request may be quite good, it is, in principle, natural to reject it. The second part is: I alone lack faith. When I come to speak to this faith: I would like to see my mistrust that, despite your timetable and your commitments in this regard, nothing will happen again, in this case would be unwarranted.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18614	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18636	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary – dressed again! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this late hour, only a few brief remarks on the revision of the Land and Forestry Law on the Service Law. In principle – and that has already been mentioned – this change constitutes a logical and necessary adaptation to the law of the State Teacher Service Law, which has recently been adopted here in the High House. In the future, teachers in agricultural and forestry schools should apply to those provisions which also apply to federal teachers, in relation to definition, dismissal due to lack of work success, performance determination and the reduction of various deadlines. This novelle has essentially addressed three criteria: on the one hand, increased performance orientation for teachers, increased competence in the management and team capacity of directors, higher objectivity in head orders, and the necessary and meaningful extension of co-determination rights through increased involvement of the school community committees and school forums. We Social Democrats will be happy to give our approval to these innovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18672	Mrs Preisinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18693	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Let me briefly say a few words about the novel to the Land- and Forest Economics Law on the Service of the Land – this is almost a break in tongues. As Mr Höchtl rightly said, this is an adaptation to the LLDG recently decided. Our two main criticisms also derive from this: First of all, the objectivity of the school principal order, which we believe is a pure sham objectivation, as the countries can define additional selection criteria, additional knowledge and skills for the applicants, and thus open the door and door to tailor-to-door the selection criteria for certain persons and groups of persons. Secondly, the head order to take place after this novelle first for four years. This is too far away from us, because we assume that a headmaster can hardly be called off from his office unless he can be proved to be grossly illegal. We are rather representing the view that a leader should be appointed on time, however for the period of five years – and with the possibility of being ordered again and again for another five years and so on. For this reason, five years, because international experience has shown that this – including preparation and preparation – is a time span for the optimal implementation of the personality of a manager, and therefore we are pleading here for this procedure. I therefore propose the following amendment to this amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18777	The amendment tabled by Mrs Preisinger is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18801	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to take part in the professors' competition for the shortest speaking time and therefore make only three brief comments on these papers, as far as they concern the university. Firstly, we implement a part of the resolution, as Mr Neisser said, with the votes of the FPÖ, on the flexibility of working time for universities in the field of contract assistants. Thus, for part-time employees at the university in the future it will no longer be possible, in the form of one-year chainwork contracts, to extend the service relationship in a very much, I would say: dependent way ad libidum. We open up the possibility of a performance-oriented career to contract assistants, which, however, also has the disadvantage – and in part will bring hardness – that this performance, as is the case with each university assistant in terms of dissertation and habilitation, must be provided. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, The Minister of Science will be given a regulatory authority to determine the remuneration of academic officials – we should rather say: academic managers – after the UOG 1993. – I would like to say in the Minutes that the criteria for determining the study success of the students at each university and faculty will in any case be dependent. Thirdly, I am pleased that the new culture of negotiation of science ministers Scholten with those involved at the university is getting their fruit and that it is now possible to move structural measures in the field of assistant teaching to a year. I mean, however, that we should use this margin for real negotiations and not forgave, Mr State Secretary. 60 percent of the academic teaching is provided by the middle construction, by the assistants. And this is finally to be recognized in the law of the service!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18846	Mrs Dunst is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18868	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Although we have already heard that an adjustment to the LDG is necessary in the field of the Land and Forestry Law on Service Teachers and that an answer to this situation is important in particular in the field of agriculture, which has not been spared from difficulties due to accession to the EU. An improvement in training in the sectors concerned will be necessary. This adjustment was also needed as a result of the 1994 salary reform. There are amendments, as Mr Preisinger and Mr Antoni have already said, in the field of definition, performance determination, objectivity in the order of directors and in certain deadlines which are shortened in the sense of streamlining of the procedures. In view of the fact that it is 2 o'clock in the morning, I do not want to address this content now. Your amendment, Mrs Preisinger, is absolutely incorrect in content – it has already been discussed in detail in the Committee. All in all, Mrs Minister, I note that this is a successful revision of the old law, which takes account of the situation within the European Community. The draft is therefore also in line with EU legislation. One of many steps towards the efficient design of labour law conditions, particularly in the field of agricultural and forestry schools and thus a guarantee of proper training! Overall, we have done two-thirds of this in the field of service law – today the LDG, the Land and Forestry Law on State Teachers’ Service Law – and this will only require the adoption of a new version of the BDG in autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18908	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall inform you that the request for a question meeting in accordance with § 92 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also note the following: In the light of the Minutes, I would like to give to Mr Dr. Jörg Haider for the twice-used phrase "brutal liars" a call for order. I would also like to speak, Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Stadler has "the brain of a dackle", Mr. Leikam has a call for order. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: I like that very much with the dample!]] Mr Heindl, I would like to call for an order for the word "reject the Presidency!", even though he was subjective in the opinion that he had been lying something right. Finally, I note that I am not suffocating those who have not been identified by the protocol and who have been accused by Mr Heindl of being the "managing director of a Hasardeur". Mr Neugebauer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18961	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as item 6 is concerned, the Committee on Education has reached a relatively broad agreement on questions of objectivity and the assessment of vocational schools in agricultural and forestry schools. I would ask you, since this is also a social partnership agreement to join this request. With regard to the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, which has been somewhat problematic in the course of the votes, I should like to point out that the first speech by a colleague of the Liberal Group has begun by saying that he was unable to give his consent to the Civil Service Law as a result of the ignorance of this course. . I have noted that this ignorance has been eliminated and therefore invite you – as it is a socially agreed package – to which you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18991	Mrs Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19012	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The innovation of the Land- and Forestry Law on Services gives us today the opportunity to put a school type at the heart of the debate, which is very often neglected. I actually wanted to use my speaking time to highlight the importance of these schools, especially for good education in the agricultural sector: In view of the advanced period, however, I would like to limit myself to pointing out in general the wide variety of this training offer. Agricultural and forestry schools are particularly important for children of farmers. It does not only provide suitable and professional vocational training: The subject canon also ensures the necessary general education in order to obtain the right to study at a university after attending a higher school. I find a single detail a pity: This type of school is mainly attended by boys; the "overhang" to male students in the higher school is even more evident than in the middle. Therefore, it seems to me to be a task of secondary level 1 to encourage more girls to opt for this higher school form so that they also have more training opportunities after graduation – and this right is not used mainly by male students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19046	I am speaking now to the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19067	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Since my previous speakers have already worked in detail on the effects and changes in the agricultural teacher service law, I would like to put the achievements of this teaching body at the heart of my remarks. I am particularly proud of the excellent adoption of agricultural schools for girls and boys as a farming representative. That is, I believe, an expression of the fact that we have excellent specialist teachers there. I'm very happy about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The strength of our farmers lies in a good training. I have already pointed out the very well attended full agricultural schools. And I am also pleased because these schools are becoming more and more the educational centre for the rural population – and not only for the farmers. Agricultural schools are specialized schools, and the visit there is voluntary. Although compulsory vocational training is only available to apprentices, the number of agricultural students has increased throughout the country. A special feature of the vocational schools is that they are run throughout Germany as boarding schools. Accordingly, for example, in the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz there is also the obligation for teachers not only to teach but also to conduct educational services in the boarding school. I would like to thank you very much for including this point in the law. Critics repeatedly suggest that many students do not complete the school. The fact is that school leavers, who come from the technical school and not from the Polytechnic, prefer to be hired by teachers because they have better professional training and personality education. They are taught in specialized schools in the fields of Life Sciences, Political Education and also more ecological management. In addition, marketing skills are taught, and business organisation is taught: All these are skills and skills that young people need today to find themselves in the private sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the sense of practical training, as an alternative to higher education for graduates of agricultural secondary schools, the establishment of a vocational college for agriculture in Wieselburg is planned, which is to be carried out very quickly. In the sense of holistic education, there is a focus on training in ecological management. In rural areas in particular, there must be ecological know-how to ensure that there is clean water and intact natural resources. Agricultural schools are therefore to be seen primarily as long-term investment in rural infrastructure. This type of school is, like no other, predestined to be an educational centre for the country. In order to continue to be well attended – unlike in Bavaria – our schools, I believe, it is useful that we decide today on this law to which I would like to give my consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19130	Now, Mrs Mag. Frieser in word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19152	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief contribution to this kafkaesque discussion on the outcome of a meeting of the Constitutional Committee. Mrs Haller! You have really seen with very little sensitivity: "And the Frieser wasn't there at all." – I would like to say: I was sick, unfortunately. There's a confirmation for that. And I was properly represented. – So much for your information. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: So my colleague, Haller, was right!]] I said: She hit her with little sensitivity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's something else! But the statement was right!]] For a statement about a colleague, I would expect a little more charm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haller.]] But this is obviously not to be expected with you! The administrative simplifications on points 4 and 5 of this agenda have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. . I would have liked to offer you more contributions in connection with the flexibilization of civil service rights and civil service, but in view of the course of today's discussion, I understand that you are of little importance to this. I'll light you up another time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19215	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19233	High house! Reporting on agenda items 4 and 5 corresponds to the actual procedures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is this?]] Any doubts about this are completely unsustainable and taken out of the air, as shown by the documents. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I want the Presidents to clarify this!]] Mr President. I am seeking to enter the voting process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19285	Thank you, rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Civil Service Law, the Wage Law and other laws, including title and receipt in 189 of the Supplements. Mr Graf asked for a separate vote on Rule II Z 1a, (2), (3), (4), (7) and (8), and Rule V. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on Article II Z 1a, 2, 3, 4, 7 and 8 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – I notice the majority. Accepted. I shall now vote on Article III of this draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a positive sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. . I note that this too has been adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on Rule V as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who stand for it to give a corresponding sign. – This too is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also wish to vote in favour of the draft law at third reading, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by majority vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 189 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. - That's the majority. Accepted. (E 13.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Frischenschlager to refer the motion 104/A back to the Constitutional Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of his report 190 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Land and Forestry Law on Services and the Wage Law, including the title and receipt in 211 of the Supplements. Hiezu Members Dr. Preisinger and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I Z 8, § 26a para. 2 and para. 3 first sentence. I therefore begin by voting on the parts of the draft law concerned by the proposed amendment, then on those parts as part of the Committee's report and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I therefore bring § 26a Abs. 2 and para. The first sentence, as amended by Dr. Preisinger and Comrades, was put to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. I now come to the vote on § 26a para. 2 and para. The first sentence of the Committee's report. I'm also looking for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak for it to be a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-06-27-020-XX-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19438	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in applications 240/A to 245/A. Question No 849/J to 886/J has also been received. I call the next meeting of the National Council for Friday, 28. June 1996, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
