ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e826	Please take a seat. – I also ask the photographers to stop their activity. I may attend the first and constituent meeting of the National Council of the XX. The Council of Ministers also adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative I very much welcome all the members of the House, both those who were elected to the National Council the other day, as well as those who are taking part in a meeting of the National Council for the first time today. With respect, I welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is present at this meeting. [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Klestil rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] I should also like to welcome those citizens who are watching the live broadcast of this meeting on television. Meeting of the 1996 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e873	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 9. January, as provided for in Article 27(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In December 1995, the National Council elected the XX for today's day. legislative period and in accordance with Article 28(1). 1 of the Federal Constitution also convened at its ordinary meeting in 1996. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. According to § 3 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, it is up to the President of the former National Council to open the meeting and hold the Presidency until the election of the new President, and in this capacity I shall hold the Presidency at the beginning of this meeting. According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, until the final election of the deputies, I call on four Members of Parliament to provide this function for the time being, after consulting the President-in-Office, Mrs Ute Apfelbeck, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss and Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. No one is reported to be prevented for today's session. 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e931	We go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. Point: It is the fishing of Members. Ms. Ludmilla Perfuss will read the fishing formula, and then the Members will have to do the fishing with the words "I promise" on behalf of the woman who will then be replaced by the colleague Rosemarie Bauer. I should now like to ask Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss to read the formula for fishing. I'm looking for you to rise from the seats.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e966	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." On behalf of the scribes Parfuss and Rosemarie Bauer, the following Members make the fishing observation with the words "I vow." Achs Matthias; Mr Rudolf; Antoni Dieter, Dr. Applebeck ute; Auer Jakob; Aumayr Anna Elisabeth Barmüller Thomas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Bartenstein Martin, Dr.; Bauer Holger, Dkfm.Use custom fonts; Bauer Rosemarie; Bauer Sophie; Blossom Anton; Böhacker Hermann; Bösch Herbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Browner Willi, Mag. Dr.; Brix Otmar; Budder Hannelore; Bures Doris Cap Josef, Dr. Dietachmayr Helmut; Ditz Johannes, Dr.; Dolinschek Sigisbert; Donabauer Karl Eder Kurt; Ederer Brigitte, Mag.Use custom fonts; Edler Joseph; A Caspar, Dr.; Elmecker Robert Fassleven Werner, Dr.; Fekter Maria, Mag. Dr.; Ferrero-Waldner Benita Maria, Dr.; Feurstein Gottfried, Dr.; Fink Ernst; Fellinger Reinhard, Mag.Use custom fonts; Fischer Heinz, Dr.; Friend Karl; Frieser Cordula, Mag.Use custom fonts; Friedhelm, Dr.; Fuchs Brunhilde; Fuhrmann Willi, Dr. Gaal Anton; Gartlehner Kurt, Ing.Use custom fonts; Gatterer Edeltraud; Gehrer Elisabeth; Grabner Arnold; Gradwelt Heinz; Graenitz Ilona, Dkfm.Use custom fonts; Count Martin, Dr.; Gredler Martina, Dr.; Grollitsch Udo, Mag. Dr.; Guggenberger Walter, Mag. Hagenhofer Marianne; Haider Jörg, Dr.; Haidlmayr Theresia; Haigermoser Helmut; Haller Edith; Hazelsteiner Hans Peter, Dr.; Chief Herbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Hawkiek Hilde, Dr.; Heindl Kurt, Dr. Hlavac Elisabeth, Dr.; Hoechtl Josef, Mag. Dr.; Hofmann Max, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Horngacher Katharina; Huber Anna; Hums Franz Jäger Inge Kaipel Erwin, Ing.; Kaufmann Herbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Doppelmüller Peter, Dipl.-Ing. Dr.; Khol Andreas, Dr. Kier Volker, Dr.; Kiermaier Günter; Kiss Paul; Climate Viktor, Mag.Use custom fonts; Koller Franz; King Friedrich, Dkfm. DDr.Use custom fonts; Konrad Helga, Dr. Head Karl-Heinz; Headmaster Erhard; Kostelka Peter, Dr. Krammer Christa, Dr.; Herbs Günther, Dr.; Krüger Michael, Dr.; Kukacka Helmut, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sad Werner, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Kurzbauer Johann Lauter Franz; Langthaler Monika, Ing.Use custom fonts; Leikam Anton; Leiner Günther, Dr.; Leitner Peter; deletenak Franz, Dr.; Luke Klaus, Dr.; Lukeian Dieter, Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Madethaner Leopold, Ing.Use custom fonts; Madl Elfriede; Maitz Karl, Dr. Marizzi Peter; Meischberger Walter, Ing.Use custom fonts; Meisinger Josef; Mentil Hermann; Mertel Ilse, Dr.; Molterer Wilhelm, Mag.Use custom fonts; Moser Sonja, Dr.; Mother Klara; Mühlbachler Josef, Dkfm. May.Use custom fonts; Müller Karl Gerfried; Murauer Walter Nresser Heinrich, Dr.; German Erwin, DDr.Use custom fonts; Novotny Ewald, Dr.; Nuremberg Rudolf; Nußbaumer Wolfgang, Ing. Oberhaidinger Georg; Ofner Harald, Dr.; Ollinger Karl; Onodi Heidemaria Perfuss Ludmilla; Parnigoni Rudolf; Partik-Pablé Helene, Dr.; Peter Helmut, Mag.Use custom fonts; Petrovic Madeleine, Mag. Dr.; Platter Günther; Posch Walter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Preisinger Susanne, Dr.; Pumberger Alois, Dr.; Puttinger Günter, Dkfm. Dr. Rack Reinhard, Dr. Rada Robert, Dr. Rasinger Erwin, Dr. Rauch-Kallat Maria; Reichhold Mathias, Ing.Use custom fonts; Good Annemarie; Riepl Franz; Rosenstingl Peter; Rossmann Mares; Rübig Paul, Dr.; Ruthofer Kurt, Dkfm. Salzl Stefan, Dr.; Sauer Willibald; Schaffenrath Maria; Scheibner Herbert; Arbitrary Peter; Schierhuber Agnes; Schlögl Karl, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schmidt Heide, Mag. Dr.; Schöggl Leopold, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Schöll Hans; Scholten Rudolf, Dr.; Scream Joseph; Schreiner Erich, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kussel Wolfgang, Dr.; Schuster Johann; Schwarzböck Rudolf; Schwarzenberger Georg; Schweitzer Karl, Mag.Use custom fonts; Scatter Emmerich; Swimper Walter, Dr.; Seidinger Winfried; Sigl Robert; Silhavy Heidrun; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Stadler Johann-Ewald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Steibl Ridi; Steindl Franz, Mag.Use custom fonts; Stoisits Teresa, Mag.Use custom fonts; Stupid Günter, Dkfm. Dr. Technical Brigitte; Tichy Writer Ingrid; Trattner Gilbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Dr. Dr. Drinkl Josef, Dr. Tychtl Gerald, Ing. Van der Bellen Alexander, Dipl.-Vw. Dr.; Vergestnichtsch Fritz; Voggenhuber Johannes; Vrnitzky Franz, Dkfm. Dr. Wabl Andreas; Wallner Kurt; Vienna Robert; Wimmer Rainer; Worm Gisela; Wormitzer Georg Deputies Mag. Terezija Stoisitschift, after calling on her name, makes the fishing observation with the words "Zagovaram se" and "I praise".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1068	Thank you. The Angelobung's done with it. Ladies and gentlemen! You have committed yourself with your vow to the law-reliance and conscientious exercise of your function. I can wish you the best possible success for your activities in the service of the Republic. This is the first item on the agenda. 2. Point Election of the President, the Second President and the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1101	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item: This is the election of the President, the Second President and the Third President of the National Council. There are written constituencies which I announce. The proposal for the President of the National Council is presented to Mr Dr. Heinz Fischer. The proposal for the Second President is to Mr Dr Heinrich Neisser. To the election of the Third President, I have three constituencies: Having regard to the proposal from the club of the Austrian Freedom Party, Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt, Having regard to the proposal from the club of the Liberal Forum, Mrs Klara Motterund Having regard to the proposal from the Green Club, Mr Deputies Dr Alexander Van der Bellen. In line with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this proposal for a debate to be approved. Thank you. This is a unanimous decision. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1173	According to § 57 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure will set a speaking time of 10 minutes per group for this debate, even after agreement in the Presidential Conference. As agreed, this speaking time can also be divided into two speakers. We are now going into the debate. Mr Kostelka's first speech is available to me. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== December 1995 – however necessary this choice may have been – has created clear and new conditions: My group, the Social Democratic Party of Austria, has been strengthened in this House, and the Austrians have given 230 000 additional votes in these elections of my party. We are now stronger than the next party by 500 000 votes. This is an award, but at the same time it is an obligation. I say to you that from this point of view we are in the XX that lies ahead of us. The legislative period of the National Council will endeavour to work with commitment, but also compromise, to push forward the necessary reforms in Austria, but we will also strive for broad majority. In this context, I would like to point out that, for us, the Constitutional Arch of Democratic Forces in this House is not a random product of the electoral result of the 9th century. In October 1994 it was a commitment and mission to bring together the democratic forces in the legislative period ahead of us and to move them to a unity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will therefore remain in the next – I hope it will – and my group will do so for you – for four years to have a wealth of political work ahead of us. We have the reforms commissioned by the Austrians – let us say it clearly – with the results of the elections, starting with a consolidation of the budget, through all the topics, through to the federal, state and local relations, and we have to do so in a consensus-oriented manner, in line with the tradition of the Austrian Parliament. Let me add, however, that majority commitments are necessary. We will not only have to introduce compromise ourselves, we will also have to demand it – in the interests of solving the problems of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The electoral act before us is the first decision to be taken by this Parliament during the legislative period which is now under way. It has a signal effect and it is of particular importance both in internal and external relations. On behalf of my group, I should therefore like to say with pride that we are proposing one of the most excellent parliamentarians in this Second Republic as President of the National Council: Dr. Heinz Fischer. And I'll invite you, I'll ask you: Give him your vote as the best candidate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second president was proposed to Dr Neisser, the second president of the previous legislative period. I think he has a broad support and acceptance in this House, and I can say on behalf of my group that we are in favour of his re-election and that we will also take action in this respect. Otherwise, the case is with the Third President. For the first time – but that is not the reason for my group's decision – it has hardly any other president in the course of the legislative period as material and content discussions as with Mag. Master given. I have never experienced in more than 20 years of parliamentary experience that a President was accused of partyism in the office and the reaction of the interpleted person in this way was so quiet and not obliged to the office at all. I know in agreement with many in this House that from this perspective we have a choice of power. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm But that is not the decisive thing for my group. Ladies and gentlemen! Political geography in this country is finally re-established in the National Council. On the extreme, at the very very right edge, during this legislative period, the Freedom Group is sitting where it belongs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the question arises whether this hair-sharp separation, which results here, will not already be exceeded by many of you. Ladies and gentlemen! A removal of statements that are intended to include an approval, an acceptance of eternal bullies, which is based on the rejection of a flat-rate and undifferentiated glorification of the SS, is not enough for me, because I also reject a differentiated and partial glorification of the SS. These are words from the distance to which many, especially the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this House, refer. Under these conditions, as long as there are no clear words, my group cannot choose a free candidate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To this clear attitude, we are not only the social democratic idea we can be proud of, because in our more than one hundred years of history we have never stood on the wrong side, always on the side of democracy – but also Austria and the reputation of our country at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1292	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we elect the Bureau of the National Council – a function that is of great importance to the Republic. The Bureau of the National Council is in addition to the Constitutional Court and the Federal President of the Council of Ministers of our Constitution. It is constitutional practice since 1983 that the third strongest party is the third president, the second strongest party the Second President and the strongest party the First President. In the Chancellorship of Bruno Kreisky, the Freedom Party was granted 12 mandates of the National Council President. Today, the Freedom Party has 40 mandates. If it were then a court, a party with only 12 mandates, to grant the Third President by election, then it is today a matter of justice which, as a principle, enforces our federal constitution and our electoral laws: there is the principle of proportionality, which we apply here also on all other issues: the First President, the Second President, the Committees, the strength in the committees, the representation in the Council of Europe and so on. It has a good reason for the strong groups to be represented in the Bureau of the National Council, because this Bureau is crisis manager; it is house manager; and it is the guardian of the Constitution. And that is the point that consensus can be found there, that all the great forces in this country are represented without censorship and are involved in the welfare of the Republic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore assume from a political claim that the third strongest party in this House has the right that the Third President or the Third President should come out of its ranks. A certain light of doubt has been cast on this right by the "Krumendorf Declaration" and its subsequent statement in the ORF. It was about the credible removal from the National Socialism. – For us these doubts have been resolved, for us this removal is credible. No one in this country should and should be interested in placing 1 million Austrians in the corner of National Socialism by a decision on the Rules of Procedure. That also requires patriotism on our part. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The Social Democrats – and others too – have already disputed the right of the Freeman to the Third President 13 months ago; in the same words as today. There was no "Krumendorf Declaration" at that time. In both cases, reasons for political opportunity explain the actions of the Socialists in this House. But the Constitution is too bad for us to do so, and the consensus in this country is too bad for us. We want an Austria that is governed by consensus and not conflict. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] My previous speaker used the term "constitutional arc". Ladies and gentlemen! So that there are no misunderstandings here! Just as my party officer defined yesterday in the "press hour": It is a political concept and not a legal concept. It is a term that shows that there is a party that, by means of the Constitution, seeks a fundamental constitutional change that we do not agree with. We don't want a Third Republic. But in this country, every party has no intention of trying to reform the amendment of this Constitution by legal means. That is why it is not illegal, because it is not unconstitutional, for there can be no unconstitutional parties; they must be immediately prohibited on their own initiative. If, therefore, we vote for a candidate of the third strongest party today, this means that we will elect a President or a President, i.e. a State body that has important functions to perform. It does not mean, however, that we identify with the objectives of this man or woman, with the political party behind them. This also applies to the First President. We want cooperation and consensus, as far as possible, and today we do not want to establish a Parliament which is from the outset marked by an unfair conflict. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a requirement profile for all candidates: Constitutional fidelity, law-reliance, sovereign and objective leadership, impartiality, distance from day-to-day policy and distance to the party dispute. We shall make this profile available to all candidates for the First President as well as to the candidates for the Second and Third Presidents. The same applies here; we all measure it! It is very well established in our electoral practice that there are no formal elections in the presidential elections, but that each Member and every Member of this House should write a name of his/her election. Therefore, there will be no statement of support from my group, because we respect – just as Cordula Frieser said last night on television – that we are freely elected Members who are committed to their conscience and constitution. However, the People's Party will, in principle, proceed in such a way that, in accordance with the good principle of the Kreisky era, we shall: First President from among the ranks of the strongest party, the Second President from the second strongest party and the Third President from the third strongest party. I call on all of you to respect these principles, which have been in force for many years. We do not want to tear up new graves, we do not want new intensifications, we do not want additional parties and, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want any additional exclusions. The next four years of work for the benefit of our home country begin, and we need the cooperation of all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1416	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor. Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1437	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December, there was a lasting third force in this country, which could call more than 1 million Austrians their followers, and which, in the face of a hard political struggle and in the face of some anti-wind that the liberals had to endure, wants to form as a fixed political community in this community of the Republic of Austria. This is a considerable success for us, which has ultimately led to the democratic forces of this House having recognized that these liberals should, of course, also play a leading role in Parliament's presidencies. We do not want to put the words of the Social Democratic Clubman on the scale, for he has already made it clear so often in his argument against the liberals that, when it comes to the assessment of a party like that of us liberals who have dared to win more than 400 000 votes from the Social Democrats as voters in recent years, he has missed any consistency, any overview, but also any premise. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we do not have to assess these arguments either. I would just like to say one thing to you, Mr Kostelka: If you go out here and start your first speech with a failure by submitting to my colleague the main party, only because you have tried very personally with your group during its presidency to scandalize transactions in Parliament, we could pay back with the same coin. We too have had conflicts with the candidate mentioned by you as the first President. There have also been interruptions in the sitting, and there have also been discussions and differences of opinion on the Rules of Procedure. But we will certainly never err in making differences of opinion about the Rules of Procedure into a political enmity, as you do about the free candidate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you "round off" the whole thing by saying that now these liberals are finally sitting where they belong, on the extreme right edge, then I can remind you that until recently those who want to make a coalition are sitting there. So that's not quite the same, but the logic of thinking has not been quite familiar to you since you were still scientists at the university. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are looking for all possible excuses to discredit the liberals, and once again take out your old reel that the liberals glorify any past, you should also be made clear here again, as I did in my book, as I did in recent interviews: There is no one in the liberal movement who would identify for just a second with the atrocities, with the crimes, with the human contempt of a National Socialist regime, but there are many in our ranks who, of course, take the fate of the war generation so seriously that they do not make collective accusations, but judge people according to their actions and do not condemn them only because they are on the side of the losers in a war. This is the reality you need to deal with. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A party that formed a government in 1971 and where in the "Furche" of the 24th century. In April 1971 a scandal was reported in Holland because then Minister Gratz had to justify himself in front of the Dutch press because so many old Nazis were sitting in the socialist government and asked a Dutch newspaper: "Do you think it is right that 25 years after the end of the war in a liberated country that defeated and occupied Germany, almost one third of the government members are former Nazis? Oskar Weihs, Otto Rösch, Josef Moser, Erwin Frühbauer and Minister for Agriculture Oillinger." – Mr Gratz had to admit the following: There is no need for so many former Nazis to be represented in such a government. I don't judge that. But you, Mr Kostelka, should finally come at your own door before You have always wondered here that you have built up your whole power and all your influence in this Republic for 25 years on the fact that you have made an alliance with former National Socialists in a government you have not yet distanced from and therefore must also note that you are very unbelievable if you argue this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will also talk to you about the story where you have the blind spot because you want to forget what alliances you have made in decades. We've never accused this older generation of their past, we're trying to be fair. Do this also, Mr Kostelka, as we do, and we want to draw a clear conclusion from all the slandering of the older generation, but on the other hand we also observe a clear distance to every human system, such as that of National Socialism, and we have also made it clear by our actions, so that young people do not have to be brought into existence in order to stand up against their own country. Let's save the young generation! And that's why you should be a little more consensual. Even if you do not want the liberals, Mr Kostelka, you should jump over your shadows and acknowledge that this is a democratic force, which cannot simply be made bad all the time. We stand to the basic columns of this Republic. We accept the decisions made by the Austrian people, including those of the European Union, although we also want to contribute to a reform of the Constitution of the European Union, because we believe that Maastricht is the wrong way, but that the Austrians' decision to be a member of this Europe must be respected, because it was a deeply democratic decision. We respect the fact that there are political discussions in Austria about how far constitutional reform can go. We do not want to argue about the term "third Republic", but we want to tell you that this is about more democracy. Hiebei is not a question of the company sign, but of whether we have the courage to dare more direct democracy, whether we have the courage to show more openness to the citizens in this country. We will not make the term "third Republic" a problem for you, but we will point out that in terms of content, it is about expanding direct democracy in our country, involving the population more and not being afraid of the participation of our own people. That is the way we want to go, the liberals who fit into this House. We therefore ask the other ladies and gentlemen of the House to support our candidates, because this democratic movement of more than 1 million Austrians has a moral right to participate in the High House of this Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1548	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. The speaking time is the same.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1570	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The item on the agenda, which is busy with us, is not a single member, but a three-member. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to point out that today we are voting for the first, the second and the third President or President, and not just the third President. That is why I would like to make a brief comment on the proposal concerning the first and the second Presidents. I am pleased that both gentlemen who were in these offices during the last legislative period are available again. It will be my personal pleasure to be able to elect them in this office with my free mandate, just as all of us, in the course of this election, do not have to exercise our free mandate and the personal responsibility for the decision we are making. That is our task as elected representatives of the people – and not the acting in blocks and fractions. Therefore, I would like to address the question of the third President's election quickly and quickly – because of the short speaking time. I think it must be personal elections here and today, which we also have to examine for their political content. If there are three proposals for this position, this is essentially in line with the principle that every Member of this House can make a proposal and that there is no doubt from the legal side that this is in order and good sense. In this context, a distinction must be made between political culture and Uzancen: From the point of view of political culture and the Uzances, it is undoubtedly and irrefutable that no one has disputed so far that the third strongest group in this House can make a proposal. Whoever would dispute this would actually have an disturbed relationship with parliamentarism. But the recognition of a right to propose does not mean that, as Mr Khol has done here, this proposal for a vote is practically in a conditional reflection without having to comply with it. In fact, it is quite possible and in the present case it is true that the proposal of the third strongest political group - I see that as such - cannot and must not be a majority. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] For this reason, it is by no means the disregard for any election will, nor under any circumstances, of the exclusion of 1 million decent Austrians. We have political responsibility, however, if we move towards such elections here in this House. These are also free, equal and secret among all Members for good reasons, so that those individuals who result from such an election can exercise their office without delay and solely based on the majority of those whom they have elected – but just based on this anonymous majority. We must therefore ask ourselves the following question concerning the election of the Third President: Are there any aspects of political culture which it considers against the use, which is also an element of political culture, that the third strongest group has a corresponding right of proposal? Furthermore, the fourth strongest and fifth strongest political group and each of the Members and each of the Members of this House have this right of proposal. We must be aware that we are choosing here in the second highest state office of the Republic, in a state office of high symbolic content and of high symbolic power. It is therefore by no means indifferent, which symbolic content and which political messages one transports with this choice, if one chooses a very specific personality. In this sense, the arch closes to political culture. We have a real problem with the third strongest group in this House not only since Krumpendorf. Rather, we have the problem – and Mr Haider has repeated this very clearly again today – that there is a sham definition of something that has not been kept: It was never claimed that in the sense of expressing crimes, anyone had praised or approved crimes, as Mr Haider said. But it was – and rightly so – put into space that when addressing former war criminals as "love friends", when addressing an explicit comradeship association of the Waffen-SS, which was known to have been classified as a criminal organisation in Nuremberg and elsewhere, expressly mentioning these symbols, is a retroactive and, unfortunately, also leading to the future glorifying of a certain political position with which the Republic of Austria cannot be brought into contact. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If I choose and send someone who stands for this symbolism to the high, second highest state office of the Republic of Austria, I will very well bring this symbolism into contact with our Republic. It is precisely at this level of political culture that this problem arises. I therefore address in particular the Members of the Austrian People's Party: Think about what you're carrying here, if you suddenly stop following your clubman Khol's very reasonable assessments until before the time the topic of Styria became up-to-date, and suddenly stop accepting them. Indeed, it would be a problem for all of us if we were to occupy the office of the Third President of the Austrian National Council with a member of this House, which stands for the fact that his own party chairman calls irrevocable members of Comradeship IV "love friends" and as people who are therefore decent because they have carried the Third Reich's attitude continuously for 50 years. I don't think that's acceptable. This is clear from the fact that I accept that a democratic election has resulted in a party which also stands for such positions with 40 Members and that it is a political group in this House. The fact that she has rights of nomination and has the right to vote is one thing, but that does not mean – I say that again – that I have to choose what has been proposed to me in the conditional reflection. Just as the "Constitutional Arch" is a political concept, an element of political culture in this sense, so is the electoral behaviour in this House, in such a question an expression of personal political culture. We will be able to read at this election outcome whether what I understand by political culture and proper handling of our own past is majority-able or not. I can only hope that there will be a majority in this House who will have to follow this without reservation, perhaps in accordance with the principle, because they have a right of nomination. "The observer has the last word, and when he has spoken, everyone knows what they have to do!" –, given a proper rejection. If you vote here the way I fear it, then your supervisor – I am now addressing the Austrian People's Party – sits outside on the right. Then you have disavowed your own supervisor who has spoken of democracy and I personally know that he has no disturbed relationship with the Third Reich. Then he subjugated himself, and once you submit, you stay down. I really want to put that at your heart.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1657	The next speaker is Mr Voggenhuber. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1678	Mr President. High house! "If an idea coincides with an interest, then almost always gains the interest." That's what the philosopher Hegel said. I would add that the only hope for progress in history is that ideas can also be enforced against interests. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with many interests today, and we should not give the impression that this is today a clear, pure, innocent question. When does politics ever deal with such a thing? – There are games of power and interests of power. Today, there may be the possibility of damaging a black and blue option or of bandaging or humiliating a coalition partner. There is the possibility of perhaps increasing or preventing the extortion of the FPÖ with regard to the Styrian head of state. There may be the possibility to demonstrate an "ampel coalition" or to disprove any intention to do so. All of this today is also the motive of what is happening. But there's also an idea today about what it's all about. And this idea means: It must be created in Austria a political culture in which any secret or open adoration or admiration or even any negligent dealings with the spirit of National Socialism is suspected and leads to exclusion from all high states. – This idea is about, and this Parliament will show whether the idea, when it comes to conflict with power-political interests, goes wrong or not. Mr. Klubobmann Haider! They have rightly pointed out that the history of the major parties Land is full of clandestine co-operations with former National Socialists that the political culture of this country was not strong enough to exclude people from high state offices who also remained associated with National Socialism in these parties. And because you're right, Dr. Haider, it's so important to give you this rejection today. It must be made clear to you that you are no longer right and that you will not be able to maintain this evil culture over the last decades. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Dr. Haider! Without wishing to exculpate the major parties, I would also like to remind you at this point that it has been these major parties who have taken some substantial political steps towards a new political culture in recent years. After 50 years, the declaration of co-responsibility for the responsibility of Austria has been given to the crimes of National Socialism. There has been a year of reflection in which the parties of this country have left no doubt that the history of displacement and concealment has come to an end. After many decades we have decided to set up a fund to compensate the NS victims. Dr. Haider! It is our concern today that this horrendous culture of silent kumpanei – the open and hidden – and of the secret play with the sympathy of criminal organizations and their mental attitude in our society will no longer be tolerated. Dr. Haider! It's not heroism. Heroic it might have been if the parties had renounced millions of voters in order not to have to allied with them immediately after the war. That might have been heroic. Today we have only the chance to gain a natural culture. But we want to stick to this self-evidentness. We will not and cannot tolerate it – and the majority of this House today is called not to tolerate it – that the members of a criminal organization in this country can be called "overriding" and their intelligibility as "true" – and that by a party leader of this Parliament, without him and those who do not distance themselves from it, being denied access to high states, ladies and gentlemen! That's the idea it's about today. You have it in your hand to decide whether any interests prevail or whether this common idea for a new political culture is gaining in Austria. I and my fellow Members are calling on you today to take advantage of the rare opportunity to prove how necessary it is to win an idea about interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1739	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Time left: two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the hour is more serious than many of us can imagine. It's about the basic, but it's in a different direction than tactivists want to represent it. The Third President shall be entitled to the liberal in a specific case. [[Abg. Wabl: Why?]] This right is not only based on use, but also legally based on the d’Hondtsche system, which can always be used in elections and in connection with processes in Parliament if there are no otherwise written rules. This right to the Third President would be an empty sleeve, if one understood it so as to say: You can suggest whoever you want. We choose who we want. – This means a blow to the mind of democratic parliamentarianism, as we are happily accustomed to it. I will be elected first President Fischer, and I will elect Second President Neisser not only because I respect both - I respect both - but because I believe that the respective political groups not only have the right to give up an announcement but also have the right to determine who should exercise the office. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If a false person is to be appointed to a high office on this occasion, that will fall back on him and on the group that nominated him. But it cannot be the case of the other political groups, i.e. the competition, to make a pre-election here and also a pre-condemnification. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm very short: It's a right that matters. And we should beware of it – out of the desire to want to humble others – to tact.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1799	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1814	I am at the conclusion, Mr President. So we should guard against falling out of Hybris into action. For we older people know where to play with parliamentarianism, especially with the Bureau. We do not wish ourselves such times back, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1847	The next speaker is Mr Haselsteiner. His speaking time is a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The last word from Mr. Ofner was "Game". I believe that even if you, Jörg, proposed a political group that at the time had suffered under National Socialism, and if you were really in any doubt on this issue, I would not be able to vote for your candidates today. I cannot therefore vote for it because I believe that you must also be told that this Parliament is not a playground. If we want to play cards, then we play Bridge or from me, but not in this house and not such a poker. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Take note that it is obvious that there are two to poker and that they have said what it is all about. Mr. Khol! Faith You do not want us to feel and not know 183 here, the spectators and listeners and your voters. In my opinion, therefore, no candidate of the FPÖ – neither the one who has probably already prepared his resignation speech, nor any other – is eligible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1912	I call Mr Wabl. Time left: 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1934	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. The Greens are also pleased, the candidate for the office of the The first President is allowed to vote here, for a simple reason: because, because of the history in this House, we have given the impression that Mr President Fischer has certainly remained a Social Democratic in his office, but that he is very well correcting his own group in the critical debate. I can also say this for the Second President Heinrich Neisser, who, in conflict situations, has always said Klobobmann Khol clearly what his position is. Ladies and gentlemen! We have held here in this House a year ago, concerning the Head of Parliament, that he is a committed Member who is genuinely trying to make a contribution here in this House. He is not one to praise the "ordinary employment policy" of the Third Reich. But he's not one who leans against such statements either. We note today that Mr President-in-Office of the Council is not one who sings praises on the spirit of the Waffen-SS – he does not, I would like to expressly say that here; I know Mr Haupt for a long time – but there is no guarantee that he will be opposed to such an attitude. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Khol! Now I come to you: They demanded that the Freedom Party and the Party Observer of the F distance themselves from his incredible statements he made at this meeting. It is simply unimaginable that you actually think that it is sufficient for the liberals and when Mr. Haider to declare to the public: I am against the crimes in National Socialism. I clearly distance myself from these atrocities. If that is enough for you, ladies and gentlemen, forget that the crimes in World War II were associated with faces and with names. They were fathers and mothers. – Mr Haider! That's what I'm Your problem, that's what you need to do. Mr. Khol! Your problem, on the other hand, is that you are selling and betraying the idea in this context because you are afraid that you will lose the political margin in this House. I'll tell you: You are right in the short term – including you, Mr Schüssel – that you could have lost some room, but you would have won much culturally in this country. You've lost this opportunity! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Last word on the SPÖ Group and on the Liberals: Since we have set up various candidates, I urge you to consider whether it can be possible to find a joint candidate or a joint candidate. For we may not have the chance to think again in this House at least a little of the cultural terrain that we had in the short term also with Mr Khol. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1987	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. I would like to see the elections carried out not only by means of voting documents, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but also by voting cells. This request is sufficiently supported. I shall therefore proceed in this way. Election of the President
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2011	The first choice of the President of the National Council shall be made in accordance with Article 30 of the Constitution. I have already mentioned this proposal. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure may also be chosen by other candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be secret to the election of the President by means of votes. I am briefly interrupting the meeting to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2045	The preparations are over. I take up the interrupted session again and ask Mrs Perfuss to stand by. Ladies and gentlemen! The minutes to be used shall be issued, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the rapporteur, by the members of the European Parliament's Directorate. For the election only the official voting paper shall be used. On this is the name of the desired candidate or candidate to write. After completing the poll in the electoral cell, it shall be cast into the urn provided. I would now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes on behalf of the rapporteur and then go to one of the voting cells. I ask Mrs Schreiber to begin with the name call; Mrs Applebeck will replace you in due course.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2085	Have all the votes been cast? – I declare the vote terminated. The House's officials will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. For this purpose, I interrupt the sitting for the duration of the vote. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2115	I'd like to take a seat. I can resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. 183 votes were cast, 179 of them valid. The absolute majority is therefore 90 votes. Member Dr Heinz Fischer142 votes in favour, Dr Lösnak 17 against and 20 votes against. With this, Mr Fischer – so it is my duty to announce it – has been elected President of the National Council. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, the Liberal Forum, the Greens and Deputies Dr. Haider, Mag. Chief and Dr. Ofner.]] Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2155	Ladies and gentlemen! I still owe you the explanation that I accept this choice with gratitude and that I would like to thank all of you very much for the confidence expressed. In the interests of this confidence, I will also make a great effort to fulfil and justify the duties entrusted to the President of the National Council. I should like to point out to you and to all of us that the legislative period of the National Council, which we are today, was the 15th anniversary of the European Council. January 1996, beginning with a four-year duration, i.e. until January 2000, if we wish to do so and if we fully exploit the authority we have obtained through the Austrian population. That is, we bear responsibility not only for the rest of this decade – if you want: for the rest of this century – but we also have to work on what constitution we exceed the threshold to the next century. It is not only those major economic and social problems that we are talking about in these days and weeks and for which we are also trying to find common solutions in the coalition negotiations, but we are also required to fulfil tasks in all other areas of politics – in domestic policy as well as in foreign policy. While the Federal Government in Austria has to make its decisions according to the principle of unanimity in a very manageable group of persons, the rules of the National Council's will formation in the circle of 183 MPs, who belong to five different political groups, which, in turn, partly act as government parties, are, of course, more difficult and complex. And there is sometimes a conflict between the insanity of decisions, which can be desired, with the soundness of the involvement of all Members, in particular the opposition. And the predictability of politics and the pactability of individual politicians may in turn conflict with the constitutionally established and guaranteed free mandate. All these aspects, i.e. the game of power between government and opposition, the personal responsibility of the individual parliamentarian, the commitment to voters, but also, of course, the commitment towards the state of affairs, the commitment towards one's own conscience to bring loyalty to a community of families and to balance a common denominator, is the art of parliamentarianism and the art of democracy, which is not always to be fulfilled and to be realized, but which one can often only approach. I therefore link this statement with the request to take all of this into account when assessing Austrian parliamentarianism and to bear in mind that we should set very critical but perhaps not too critical standards on Austrian parliamentarianism. For example, the presence at the meetings of the National Council, which is excellent and tangible today, always and in all stages making it the standard for parliamentary work, is certainly an incomplete view. We must rather let ourselves be liked to accept the quality of the laws as a benchmark for the assessment of our work. Although one cannot measure the quality of laws according to centimetres, grams, and seconds, a consensus has recently developed in the direction that, in fact, ten laws should provide us with too much more thoughtlessness, more sleepless nights than some laws do. In any event, developing the right perspective is a matter for all Members and for common efforts. The just said applies particularly to constitutional laws and constitutional provisions. The only attempt to adopt constitutional laws as far as possible by a greater majority than they are available to the two strongest groups of the House could, in a reasonable way, act in a slow and moderate manner. The last thing I want to say, and at the end of the day, is this: Our political system – and it has already been referred to today – approves all the Presidents and all the Vice-Presidents of our legislative bodies in the federal and state - similar to in Germany, in France or in other European democracies the membership of a parliamentary group, the participation in a political party to maintain a political opinion. But in the Presidency of a parliamentary body, in the handling of the Rules of Procedure and in the exercise of the functions of the President, absolute impartiality and objectivity is necessary and indispensable. And that I feel committed to this principle and in this sense will make a great effort, of which you can be sure. I will also work with the members of the National Council Bureau to ensure good cooperation with the parliamentary groups, with the Federal Government, of course also with the Federal President, with the Federal Council and other institutions of our state and, of course, with all the elected members of this House. In this sense, I wish you and us a successful parliamentary work, a successful legislative period, a further strengthening of the idea of parliamentaryism and democracy in Austria. I should like to thank you once again for your decision and for your confidence very, very much. [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2219	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now allowed to continue in the constitution and thus on the agenda of this sitting. We come to the election of the Second President. I have already said at the outset that I have a written proposal to elect Mr Dr Heinrich Neisser to the Second President of the National Council. However, there are also votes on other Members, as well as on the previous election. This choice is also to be made with a vote, that is, a secret vote; the use of the electoral cells is also intended. It is therefore the same as before as the electoral process on all points. Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss will, in her capacity as a writer, immediately begin the call for name, replace Mrs Rosemarie Bauer in due course.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2267	The name call has ended, the vote has also ended. Thus, the competent officials of the House will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the correspondents. I interrupt the session for the required duration. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.44 a.m. and resumed at 12.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2298	I shall resume the interrupted sitting and be allowed to announce the outcome of the election to the second President. 183 votes were cast, 179 of them valid. Therefore, the absolute majority of valid votes are 90 votes. There were 164 votes in favour and 15 votes in favour in favour. As a result, Deputy Dr Neisser was elected Second President of the National Council. [[General condolences.]] I ask the elect whether he will take his election as the Second President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2337	I accept the choice and thank you very much for your confidence. This obliges me to continue my presidency as I have done so far. – I hope this is not understood as a dangerous threat.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2358	It is not understood as a dangerous threat. I congratulate you, my dear colleague Dr. Neisser, and invite you to sit here at the Bureau. We have thus done the second President's election. Election of the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2383	We shall come next to the election of the Third President. There are those constituencies which I announced at the beginning of the sitting. I can repeat her: Mr President, Mr Motter and Mr Van der Bellen. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates or candidates. The electoral process is the same as in the previous elections. I don't need to tell him again. Ms. Ludmilla Perfuss will start the name call immediately. Mrs. Applebeck will replace her later.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2420	It seems that all the ladies and gentlemen have voted. I hereby declare the vote terminated. As in the previous elections, the officials of the House responsible for this will now make the number of votes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2452	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election as follows: 183 votes were cast. All 183 votes were valid. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 92 votes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. Dr Brauneder 48 votes in favour, Mr Mag. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Van der Bellen (Christian Democrats), Mr Klara Motter28, Mr Lösnak 6 votes in favour and Mr 19 votes in favour. No decision was taken in the first election because the required absolute majority was not reached. The Rules of Procedure therefore require the implementation of a second election. I have been asked by all the political groups to interrupt the meeting for this purpose in order to enable discussions to take place. I'm interrupting the session for 40 minutes. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2511	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. We are in the election of the Third President of the National Council, and we are coming to the second election. I can tell you that I have the following messages: First: The Liberal Party Club announces that Mr Magistrate. Head of the National Council of the University Professor Dr Willi Brauneder for the election of the Third President of the National Council. Secondly, the Liberal Forum announces that Mrs Motter does not apply for membership and that the Liberal Forum for the Election of the Third President of the National Council makes Mr. Dr. Volker Kiernammich. I would ask you to take note of this. Otherwise, the rules on voting are the same as in the first election, with the exception of the fact that Mr Neisser and I are no longer elected members of the Third President. We can therefore proceed to the second election, and I ask Mrs Ludmilla Perfuss to begin reading the list of names. It will then be replaced by Mrs Applebeck. The rules for voting are the same. I'm asking you to use the election cells. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2571	The vote was taken by all the electorate. The vote will therefore end. As in the previous elections, I now ask you to make the number of votes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.58 a.m. and resumed at 15.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2604	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to take a seat. I shall resume the suspended meeting of the National Council and may announce the outcome of the election as follows: In the election to the Third President of the National Council, 183 votes were cast. It was all 183 valid. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 92 votes. Mr. Dr. Willi Brauneder, 93 votes in favour, Mr. Dr. Volker Kier80 votes to Mr. Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen10. Mr Brauneder has thus been elected third President of the National Council by 93 votes, and I would like to congratulate him on this. [[Prolonged condolences with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider congratulates President Dr. Brauneder.]] Deputies! I'm asking you if you'll take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2660	Mr President. I'll take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2675	Then I may ask you to sit in the Bureau for the first time. I would also ask colleagues Neisser to come up here, then at least at the beginning of this legislative period we have all three presidents on the Bureau. [[Prolonged condolences with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Neisser and President Dr. Brauneder are taking part in the Bureau.]] [[On the way to the Bureau, President Dr. Brauneder and Abg. May. Head of each other's hands.]] I would also like to turn to Mr Herbert Haupt, who hereby leaves his office. I would like to thank you for your work as the third President of the National Council from November 1994 until today and for the cooperation, for the change in the Presidency. I wish you all the best for your future parliamentary work and personally! [[Prolonged condolences with the liberals and with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's what we've got on the 2nd. Agenda item. 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and folders
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2729	We're coming to 3. Agenda item: Choice of the authors and folders. I now propose that the choice of the authors and folders be no longer carried out by means of voting papers and voting cells, but rather that the normal voting process be chosen. Does this raise objections? This is not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. We first come to the election of the scribes. It is my proposal to elect Members Ute Apfelbeck, Jakob Auer, Rosemarie Bauer, Ludmilla Perfuss and Annemarie Reitsamer as authors of the House. This is the election proposal of those political groups who have the right to make proposals. As a debate is not scheduled, I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. I assume that the elect will accept the choice. This is the choice of the scribes. We come to the choice of the folders. It is my proposal, Mrs Ing. Gerald Tychtl, Ridi Steibl, Dr. Martin Graf, Klara Motterand Karl Ollinger to choose folders of the National Council. Here too, we shall take the vote under one. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this vote to give a sign of approval. – I note the unanimous choice of the folders and I also assume that the elect will accept the choice. ==References====External links== Agenda item. 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2839	We're on the 4th. Agenda item: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the main committee shall be determined by the decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the number of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. For the main committee, 29 members are now proposed by common accord, contrary to originally other considerations. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the proposal to set the number of members of the main committee by 29 in order to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. A number of 29 members are absent in accordance with § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ Club twelve members, on the ÖVP Club nine members, on the Liberties Club six, on the Liberals Club a member and on the Green Club also a member. One is selected according to the order of the electoral lists that were submitted. The following Members were elected members of the main committee: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Dieter Antoni, Mag. Brigitte Ederer, Dr. Heinz Fischer, Dr. Willi Fuhrmann, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Annemarie Reitsamer, Peter Schieder, Ing. Gerald Tychtl, Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Franz Löschnak, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser and Dr. Ewald Nowotny ; of the ÖVP Club: Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, Dr. Josef Höchtl, Dr. Heinrich Neisser, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Georg Schwarzenberger, Ingrid Tichy-Schreder, Ing. Leopold Maderthaner, Rudolf Schwarzböck and Ridi Steibl; of the club of the liberals: Dr. Harald Ofner, Mag. Herbert Haupt, Ing. Mathias Reichhold, Mag. Johann-Ewald Stadler, Peter Rosenstinglund Mag. Erich Schreiner; from the Liberal Forum: Dr. Heide Schmidt; from the Green Club: Johannes Voggenhuber. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. 5. Point Election of permanent committees
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2987	We're on the 5th. Agenda item: Election of permanent committees. I have the request to use the following permanent committees within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure – I only read the respective name of the Committee –: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Building Committee, Budget Committee, Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Financial Committee, Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Equal treatment committee, Immuneness Committee, Committee on Industry, Public Health and Consumer Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection Committee on Justice, Public Health and Committee on Culture, Public Health and National Defence Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, The Court of Auditors, Committee on the Environment, Public Health Education Committee, Incompatibilities Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Economic and Social Committee, Committee on Science and Research. We have to decide whether the House approves the establishment of these committees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree that these committees should be set up for a sign on this point. – That is unanimously decided. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members of each committee. These are then distributed to the individual political groups according to certain proportional conditions, either in accordance with the d’hondtsch or the so-called Shapley method. The clubs will then have to make the members of the committee and the replacement members aware of them, which will be deemed to be elected. After consulting the President, the Committees referred to are the following members, whose distribution to the political groups was calculated: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Immunities, the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Incompatibilities shall consist of 17 members and 17 alternate members. This results in the following distribution following the Shapley procedure: Each six members and replacement members to the SPÖ, five members and replacement members to the ÖVP, four members and replacement members to the liberals and one member and one replacement member to the Liberal Forum and the Green Club. For all the other committees listed earlier, with the exception of the main committee we have already found, 21 members and 21 replacement members are proposed. This is avoided – divided by d’Hondt, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure - 8 to the SPÖ, 6 to the ÖVP, 5 to the Liberals, one to the Liberals and one to the Greens, and the same number of substitutes each. We shall come to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the proposed number of members and the proposed composition of the committees to give an indication of this. – That is unanimously decided. The names of the members and substitutes appointed by the clubs to the President, which are deemed to be elected, can be found in, among other things, the Stenographical Protocol of today's meeting. ==References== Agenda item. 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3144	We're on the 6th. Agenda item: Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. This committee consists of a total of 26 members, half of whom are sent by the National Council and the Federal Council. There are 13 members of the Federal Council and 13 members of the National Council. With regard to the 13 members of the National Council, to which 13 additional members are added, six of the SPÖ are to be proposed, four of the ÖVP and three of the liberals. I have the following proposal: Nominated as members of the SPÖ Club: Kurt Eder, Marianne Hagenhofer, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Anton Leikam, DDr. Erwin Niederwieserand Dr. Willi Fuhrmann. The members of the ÖVP Club are: Dipl.-Vw. Dr. Dieter Lukesch, Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund Georg Wurmitzer. Members of the Freedom Club are: Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Mag. Gilbert Trattner, Mag. Johann-Ewald Stadler. The replacement members of the SPÖ Club shall be: Emmerich Schwemmlein, Kurt Wallner, Dr. Ewald Nowotny, Ing. Erwin Kaipel, Anna Huberund Mag. Herbert Bösch. Substitute members of the ÖVP Club are: Ernst Fink, Johann Kurzbauer, Walter Murauer, Dr. Walter Schwimmer. The replacement members of the Freedom Club are: Hermann Böhacker, Peter Rosenstinglund Franz Koller. You heard the proposal. A debate is not requested. I shall therefore vote on these proposals. Is there any objection to putting the proposals to the vote? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members, as I have read them, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. We have thus carried out the Committee's elections to all the committees. 7. Point Election of MEPs to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3302	We're now on the 7th. On today's agenda: Election of MEPs to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament. It is about confirming the MEPs to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament in its office or re-electing in the event of a re-election. There are two Members of the European Parliament to be sent again, as Mr Ing. Mathias Reichhold's mandate as European Parliamentary with effect from 14. Mr. Dr. Gerfried Gaigg, who is the National Council of the XIX. legislative period, but that of the XX. The legislative period no longer belongs to its mandate with effect from 24. It's going to be back in January. The other European Parliamentarians are confirmed in their functions which they already exercise; otherwise there will be no change in staff. The overall composition of the mandates for the European Parliament is therefore within the meaning of Article 151(1). 11 of the Federal Constitution as follows: From the SPÖ Club: MEPs to the National Council Dr. Herbert Bösch, Dkfm. Ilona Graenitz, Dr. Hilde Hawlicek, Dr. Elisabeth Hlavacas well as the federal councils Irene Crepaz, Erich Farthofer, Albrecht Konečnyand Erhard Meier. From the ÖVP Club: MEPs to the Dkfm National Council. DDr. Friedrich König, University Professor Dr. Reinhard Rack, Dr. Paul Rübig – as successor to Dr. Gaigg at the date I mentioned – Agnes Schierhuber, Dr. Michael Spindelegger and Federal Councillor Dr. Milan Linzer. From the club of the liberals: the delegates to the National Council Dr. Klaus Lukas– as successor of Ing. Reichhold – Ing. Wolfgang Nußbaumer, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, Mag. Erich Schreiner and Federal Councillor Dr. Susanne Riess. From the Club Liberals Forum: Deputies Dr. Martina Gredler. From the Green Club: Deputies Johannes Voggenhuber. In accordance with Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that we make use of the possibility of taking the vote, not by voting, but by raising the seats. Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this election proposal, which is therefore in favour of rescinding Members Dr Klaus Lukasund Dr. Paul Rübig as Members of the European Parliament and of confirming the remaining Members and Members of the Federal Councils mentioned by me in their functions in order to give a sign of approval. . I adopt a unanimous decision by the National Council on this matter. This has also led to the election of the European Parliamentarians. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-15-020-XX-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3430	I can still give the House two more letters from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of Germany. ==References== In January 1996, a number of technical communications will be made available and will be added to them shortly. ==References== In December 1995, Mr Bundeskanzler sent the following letter to the President of the National Council: "I am honoured to announce that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 19. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 19 December 1995, GZ 800.410/5/95 In December 1995, the Federal Government adopted a decision and removed the Federal Government and the State Secretary from office in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act. At the same time, in accordance with Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the other members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration of the offices involved so far and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted the State Secretary and State Secretary with the continued exercise of their functions until the formation of a new Federal Government. Best regards Franz Vranitzky" ==References== In January 1996, Mr Bundeskanzler sent the following letter to the President of the National Council: "I am honoured to make the communication that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 3. Jnänder 1996, Zl. 800.410/0/96, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Andreas Staribachervom Amte has removed. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has Federal Minister Mag. Viktor Klima entrusted with the continuation of the administration of the Federal Ministry of Finance." I declare that in today's session the self-employed applications 1/A to 16/A have been tabled. Question No 1/J has also been received. I call for the next meeting of the National Council, which is dedicated to commercial communications and allocations, to be held at 16.45 a.m. Before I close this meeting, I am still aware that in the immediate follow-up to the current meeting, which is now the same, in the meeting room of the Federal Assembly, the constitution of the Austrian group of the Interparliamentary Union will be carried out and will probably be done in a few minutes. The main committee will then take half an hour after the end of this meeting – that is, at 4 p.m. – in the local office of V and then hold a working session immediately. This meeting is closed.
