ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2121	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'm going to open the 13th. Mr President, on the occasion of the budget speech in our midst, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to congratulate Mr Neisser once again on his round birthday. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] I announce that the official protocols of the 10. Meeting and the 11th and 12th meetings Parliament's management meeting has been inconceivable and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, Gatterer, Dr. Schwimmer, Mag. Stoisits and Dr. Gusenbauer. Business treatment
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2170	Mr Van der Bellen has reported on business treatment. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2191	Mr President. Members of the Green Club today had difficulties entering the Parliament building – and my knowledge of at least one MP; a police officer – perhaps over-zealous – insisted on seeing a parliamentary identity card. But now I assume that Parliament's meetings are public, and I wonder how under these circumstances the public of the meeting is guaranteed. [[Unrest and intermediate calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to ensure, as you can, that this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2224	Deputies! I can tell you that we must achieve different objectives at the same time, namely, to ensure the public of the meetings, which are guaranteed today, in particular by television broadcasting, but also by the fully occupied gallery, but on the other hand, we must ensure compliance with the Bannmeile and compliance with the provisions of the Convention. In the early days there was apparently a risk that the Bannmeile would be violated, and the police are faced with the very difficult task of ensuring compliance with all legal provisions with the minimum possible means. I assume that the public is assured of this meeting, and I also hope that the National Council will be able to carry out its deliberations without any pressure from outside. In any case, this is the efforts of the employees. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is a further statement on the Rules of Procedure. However, I would ask you to bear in mind that we are discussing very much on the margins of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2258	Mr President. All possible problems in honour - I know there can be problems here - but it must also be ensured or at least provided that Members can also reach Parliament, even if they have no ID card. [[Unrest.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The problem that has arisen today – I suppose, not only with me, but also with many other Members – was that they were asked for the ID card. [[Prolonged calls.]] It must at least be ensured that Members are informed that they can only reach Parliament on the day of the sitting by means of this card or even come to Parliament's building without ID card.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2305	Deputies! The entry of the building is not regulated in the Rules of Procedure, but in the Rules of Procedure, and it is now not for discussion – nevertheless I have given you the floor. I say again: The obligation to demonstrate is to prevent people from entering the house who then take action which would not, at least, be in agreement with a large majority of this House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] - Please don't give me a chance! I would like to try to make the most of all the legal provisions, even if they are in a certain tension with each other, and I believe that this has largely been achieved. On such a day, showing a card in individual cases is inevitable and hopefully reasonable. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2335	Ladies and gentlemen! It has been notified by the Federal Electoral Authority that Mr Spindelegger has waived his mandate and, in his place, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Richard Kaiserin was appointed to the National Council. Since the election is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, his fishing will be carried out immediately. – I ask you to rise from the seats. The scribe shall read the formula; the service of the scribe shall be provided by Mr Auer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2360	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2375	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2390	I traditionally welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2418	I should like to refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items which have been obtained. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2512	In addition, the templates are: Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Estonia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols, Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lithuania, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols; and Europe Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Latvia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols. In agreement with the members of the President's Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these three Treaties to a committee and to place them on the agenda of the next meeting. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is not the case; then we will proceed in this way. Furthermore, the template is: Euro-Mediterranean Agreements establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Tunisian Republic, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Declarations (77 of the Supplements). I would also propose, in agreement with the members of the President's Conference, that we distance ourselves from the assignment of this proposal to a committee and put it on one of the agendas of the next meetings – when, we will still fix it. On the other hand, is there any objection? – This is not the case; then we will proceed in this way. Aside from the 24 hour lead-in period
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2555	In order to be able to negotiate item 2 of today's agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, with a majority of two-thirds, is required to withdraw from the 24-hour period of stay. This is the report of the Transport Committee on Amendment 142/A concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Railway Act (84 of Supplements). I note the necessary quota and ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the removal from the time-limit for the Committee's report. . I note the unanimous adoption of this Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2588	It is also proposed that the debate on points 4 and 5 of today's agenda be summarized. On the other hand, I see no objections either. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2612	I inform the House that the Members of Parliament have made the request to treat as urgent the written question 324/J submitted to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning "money destruction by Vienna Airport" before the entry into today's agenda. Since this desire is aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, I do of the right according to § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, to begin the debate on this urgent question at 4 p.m. – Please take note. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2636	We are now going into the agenda. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debates on today's agenda. Accordingly, the debate on item 2 is to be limited to two "Vienna hours", so that the following speeches are made: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. In the debate on points 3, 6 and 7, one speaker per group will speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes and a second speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes. The joint debate on points 4 and 5 will be limited to three "Vienna hours". The resulting speaking times will be announced at the beginning of the debate. The debate on agenda items 8 and 9 will take one "Vienna hour" each, i.e. 15, 14, 13, 9 and 9 minutes, divided into the political groups. Furthermore, in the debate on points 10 and 11, two speakers each can speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes each if this is desired. This proposal has been prepared by the Presidential Conference. I'll put him in front of the House and let him vote on it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. - Thank you, that's so decided, and we'll do that. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government's documents concerning the Federal Financial Laws for 1996 and 1997 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2688	==References== The item on the agenda is the statement by the Federal Minister for Finance on the government documents relating to the federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997, together with investments. I can give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e2712	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's budget speech is the start of several weeks of intensive, joint work on an extraordinary but necessary project for our country: It is two federal budgets, one financial compensation for four years, hundreds of budget-accompanied laws and some important structural laws to advise and decide. All of this serves only one goal, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of sustainable economic location in Austria and thus of high employment; the creditworthiness of Austria in international capital markets; favourable interest rates for State investment, for the economy and for consumers; strong schilling; the budgetary margin for public services in future budgets; the credibility of politics and social peace and stability in Austria. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This objective can only be achieved through the participation of all citizens, all local authorities – the federal, the Länder and municipalities – and the legislative bodies and the social partners. [[Abg. Wabl: And the universities!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will achieve this objective together. We must also achieve it, despite some difficulties, because there is no realistic alternative to that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! As a first step, as part of an overall approach, accompanied by numerous measures to safeguard and create employment, the Federal Government is now presenting a consolidation programme, a consolidation programme which naturally constitutes a compromise of different interests, but which could only be achieved because the two government parties, the social partners and the local authorities have worked constructively and decisively together. Their representatives are therefore particularly grateful to me, but especially to those who participated in this four-team, i.e. Minister of Economic Affairs Johannes Ditz, State Governor Herbert Sausgruber and Head of State Karl Stix. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the same way, I would like to thank the experts and officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the other Ministries for their hard work in the most genuine sense of the word, not only from tradition but from personal experience in recent weeks. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the way in which this programme was created can continue to be constructive and determined in the discussions of the House. [[Abg. Wabl: With the universities!]] Only in this way will it be possible – without endangering the consolidation objective – to achieve some improvement and to adopt the entire reform work by the end of April. It is necessary to act quickly. Of course, we are rightly proud of the achievements of the Austrians over the past decades. Austria is today the third largest country in the European Union. After Luxembourg we have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. For years the international rating agencies have been giving Austria the best credit rating level, the Triple A. Despite the effective schilling upgrades, Austria has been able to increase its export market share by 3 percent in 1995. Not least, Austria has been able to increase its market share of foreign direct investment in the last two years and has the highest savings rate in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order for us to remain among the best and to avoid future developments and actual emergency programmes, reforms need to be made quickly. In the years 1992 to 1995, a number of developments in the government's budget had a significant impact, developments such as measures to combat recession, increase staff costs, expansion of transfers, one-off losses due to tax reform, payments to the EU, mainly to the benefit of return flows directly to the private sector, and also exceptional burdens such as compensation for the economic sectors affected by EU accession have deteriorated the deficit of the state budget from 66 billion schilling in 1992 to around 118 billion schilling in 1995. A continuation of this development would have reduced the scope for fiscal and economic action and led to an unfinancing budget burden. However, we also want to take part in the third stage of economic and monetary union – and that is clearly said. Retirement would have a negative impact on monetary policy, negative effects on key location benefits, such as stable currency and low interest rates in Europe. However, higher interest rates would not only have a negative impact on the budget, but also on economic development and jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! This was already known by the legendary State Secretary Seidel, which the state should not have a net deficit higher than 2.5 percentage points of GDP. We are now doing this consolidation programme but not because of any abstract Maastricht criteria. We will be in favour of the quality and attractiveness of Austria's economic location, and we will take decisive action to secure jobs in the long term. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For this reason – and only for this reason – we have set the fiscal policy goal of reducing the federal net deficit to 2.7 percent of the gross domestic product in 1997. Therefore, we present two federal proposals today – a quite exceptional situation. The 1996 Federal Estimate provides revenue of 656 billion schilling and expenditure of 746.6 billion schilling. The 1996 budget will thus amount to 90.6 billion schilling, which is about 3.7 percent of the gross domestic product. The 1997 Federal Estimate, which is also presented as mentioned above, provides revenue of 672.8 billion schilling and expenditure of 740.7 billion schilling. The end of 1997 is forecast to be 67.9 billion schilling, about 2.7 percent of gross domestic product. In order to achieve this objective, measures are planned in relation to two thirds of savings on the expenditure side and one third on the revenue side. The expenditure savings relate in particular to measures for a more efficient and economical administration and also to streamlining the state's transfers. On the revenue side, the focus is on closing tax gaps, removing derogations and no longer modern tax subsidies, as well as the inclusion of gas and electricity in energy taxation. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government, however, submits to the House a constructive programme with sustainable and long-term effects. This is not a package of "caputt savings", but it is a programme that combines reasonable reduction of expenditure growth in the consumer field with investment, it is a programme that secures the future of our Second Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! For this reason, we also need to consistently implement this consolidation programme – not rigid, but consistent. This means that, while it is necessary to maintain the savings target in individual sub-areas, there is a willingness to talk about the method. From the point of view of individual interests, some measures may be perceived as unreasonable restrictions. I also understand the concerns, concerns and critical objections of individual population groups. But in total – this shows us all the surveys – there is, however, a great understanding of the Austrian population and – with all the punctual criticism – a broad acceptance of this package of measures. One reason for this is that consolidation is balanced, that higher incomes contribute more than those of lower incomes, and that all types of income and population groups are contributing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second reason – and we can be proud of it – is certainly also in the political culture of Austria. It was and is irrevocably a culture of social commonness, social peace and political stability. This social common ground is not separated between employers and workers, between young and old, between poor and rich. And that's how it's supposed to stay! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our country is proof by this programme that reasonable political objectives can be achieved in joint work and effort. The present package provides the basis for a balanced path between expenditure cuts, tax measures and investments. I would therefore also like to invite the critics very consciously to take this path into a good future in Austria. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, both of these rails are needed in the future: the rails of consolidation and the rails of the employment offensive, because the economic conditions are difficult. Towards the end of 1995, the economic upturn in Austria – as in all of Europe – has been weakening in advance. Economic growth in most countries is therefore lower than expected, but growth remains. One reason for this weakening of growth is, among other things, monetary turbulence at the beginning of 1995. These brought short-term competitive disadvantages in exports to hard-currency countries in particular. The budget consolidation at the same time in most European countries also contributes to a reduction in the economy. The situation is better outside Europe. In the USA, a moderate economic upturn continues, Japan is expected to recover slowly from its four-year recession, and in the growth zones of Southeast Asia and Latin America, new growth records are reported monthly. In Europe too, however, there is quite a reason for optimism. This economic pessimism, which moves in, is certainly one of the psychological problems we face. Because the basic economic conditions are not bad: The inflation rates are – historically – extremely low, the nominal interest rates have fallen and are now low as long as they have been. The determination to consolidate the budget strengthens the confidence of financial markets; it should also strengthen the confidence of consumers and investors. However, it is in parallel with the consolidation of public budgets with dedicated employment programmes that Austria, with its initiatives in recent weeks and months, has been particularly committed to combating the European unemployment problem. It is generally known that consolidation also results in short-term growth losses. In the medium and long term, however, only the consolidation rate can reduce the interest burden on public debt and create scope for an active economic and employment policy. There is no doubt that, after this short thirst, the Europe more united by monetary union will strengthen its position as one of the most important players in the global economic situation. In particular, stable external economic conditions favour small export-dependent economies such as Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the prospects for the coming years are not as bad as they are often seen. There is no reason at all to lament our economy to death. Both the OECD and the EU expect the current economic downturn to be over soon. The total OECD area is expected to grow 2.3 percent in 1996 and 1997. Within the European Union, growth of just under 2% is forecast for this period. The Austrian economy will grow less rapidly over the next two years than in the last two years. Real economic performance is expected to increase by 1.6 percentage points this year and by 1.2 percentage points next year, according to the December forecasts. However, do not forget that economic researchers expect a relatively strong increase in equipment investment and exports. According to these forecasts, gross domestic product in 1996 is expected to be around 2 449 billion Schilling and around 2 517 billion Schilling in 1997. I already know that these figures are not a cause for rejoicing, but please see also the relations: Even a reduction in the growth forecast by 0.3 percentage points would have only minor effects, estimated at 0.06 percentage points, on the deficit ratio. Of course – this is of particular importance for the execution – we have provided for this case. For example, privatisation proceeds have only been included in the 1996 budget – and only to the modest extent of 4.7 billion schilling. Each of you has followed the discussion about any sales revenues from Creditanstalt, Bank Austria, ATW, Salinen AG, State Printing and the like, so that he knows what we can actually expect. These more revenue gives us additional scope for action. In 1996, both net mass income and available personal income will, unfortunately, increase only slightly. As a result of the expected decline in the savings ratio, it still results in a real growth of 1.5 percent for 1996 and 1 percent for private consumption in 1997. Exports of goods are expected to increase nominally by 7.1 per cent in 1996 and 1997; the growth rate will be 6 per cent in real terms. Imports of goods will increase by 4 per cent less rapidly, with nominally 4 per cent in 1996 and 1997. This, of course, has a positive impact on the current account. For the current account, a deficit of around 35 billion Schilling in 1996 is about 1.4% of gross domestic product, and for 1997 only a deficit of about 20 billion Schilling or 0.8% of gross domestic product. The unemployment rate is adopted with caution at 4.7 for 1996 and 5.5% for 1997. Consumer prices rise by 2.2 percent in 1996 and 1.9% in 1997. High house! The Federal Government is now presenting you with the draft federal financial laws at the same time as the measures taken by those concerned – and we are sure that we are all – of course not always looking forward to joy. I would therefore like to point out once again that these individual adjustments are by far the lower evil than we would not take this decisive step. In recent years, we have had to learn how rapidly rising deficits increase public debt. Since 1992, the federal debt alone has increased by more than a third. Without countermeasures, they would increase by a further 50 percent over the next four years, and the total government debt would remain little below the gross domestic product. If the interest rate remained constant, the burden on the federal budget would rise by interest payments from just under 80 billion schilling to over 110 billion schilling. This, in turn, would either significantly accelerate deficit growth or, to a far greater extent than today, take measures to reduce the deficit. Critics of this package have also applied that it reduces employment. That would be true, there would be no accompanying measures. However, the programme presented contains a number of employment-official measures, which I will address in detail later on. Consolidation is achieved with the aim of reducing economic costs, so that in total – including employment-official measures – structural measures could even be positive. But one thing is clear, and I would also like to stress this openly: A deficit policy is no longer an effective tool for creating employment in the integrated and open markets. As the very high savings ratio of the private households in Austria proves, at least part of the federal transfers are obviously saved. So this money does not guarantee employment. The increased current account deficit that we have had to observe in recent years is partly due to the fact that, in part, the increase in the number of trips abroad and the like is more so. Finally, I must mention that high budget deficits are at least in the medium term at higher inflation rates and not in growth. This does not make investment projects easier to calculate, nor does it support the best income policy of the social partners. That the "hard schilling" would be at risk is not a secret either. Starting %s Currency: It is precisely the hard-currency countries that have had to experience the unfavourable effects of the currency turbulences of recent years, as we Austrians have experienced, that should be interested in the fact that in Europe, as quickly as possible, monetary union is on the broadest possible basis possible. The aim of the Federal Government is that Austria can participate in this monetary union from the beginning. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! The current economic situation in Austria requires an innovative economic and financial policy with the help of a precisely coordinated policy mix. In addition to the renovation of public budgets, a number of more offensive measures are planned, together with the social partners, to ensure employment, the economic location of Austria and to ensure the welfare state. For one thing: The consolidation package includes the following employment-related measures: The increase in housing development and the increase in the maximum amount of construction savings release additional construction investments of more than 2.5 billion Schilling. The Austrian Federal Railways are authorized to invest more than 60 billion Schilling in employment over the next five years. With forced sale of federal real estates, 1.3 billion schilling a year is released for a construction offensive. Toll intakes and road pricing will provide additional resources for the loophole in the high-level road network. Finally, the increase in the investment exemption will activate an estimated investment volume of another billion schillings annually. A study by the social partners shows that these measures can safeguard or create around 30 000 jobs. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You will see that the budget has been made very careful, careful and with the necessary caution. – And that is why the 30 000 and not 300 000 jobs are included. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the priorities of the Investment Plan is, of course, infrastructure development. Modern infrastructure is considered an essential part of a high-performance economy. This is both about the development of regional transport and about the loophole in the motorway network and the development of European rail networks. New financing models, which are summarized under the heading "Private Public Partnerships", will secure budgetaryly the high financing requirements for these projects in the long term. An export offensive will primarily improve the export opportunities of the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies, in particular, have the highest growth and employment dynamics. New models of access to risk capital are intended to facilitate these businesses. The offensive focuses on the rapidly growing markets in overseas countries, but also on specific regional initiatives in the Central and Eastern European markets. Austria's position in the neighbouring countries is thus not only secured but also improved in a sustainable manner. The aim of creating new jobs is like a red thread through the consolidation programme. An active labour market policy will further increase the skills of employees, in particular skilled workers, and thus further improve the quality of the Austrian site. Of course, the particular situation of women in working life will be more taken into account. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's a joke!]] The future of the Austrian site depends largely on success in research and development. Research funding is being expanded and used more efficiently. An enhanced partnership between science and the economy creates appropriate framework conditions for the development and market introduction of new products. Austria's participation in EU research programmes also contributes to this. Technology policy is at the heart of a modern research and development policy today. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You are the Municher!]] It has become a modern form of growth policy in the highly industrialized countries. The expansion of Austria as a high-technology location is driven by an intensification of economic research and development. The funds for this are from privatisation proceeds. The volume of the Innovation and Technology Fund will therefore be increased considerably. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We also create the conditions for positive developments in this dynamic growth sector with the new economic policy framework for the telecommunications sector – the elimination of monopoly. But also with the exclusion of the Austrian Post from the Federal Administration, this flagship of Austrian telecommunications for competition in the liberalised European environment will be strengthened. The budgetary compatibility of this breakdown is ensured by a number of measures. By the end of full liberalisation in 1998, the postal concession charges for the monopoly area will amount to around 10 billion schilling to the federal government. In addition, a total of about 7.5 billion schilling of GSM license receipts comes in. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we not only ensure the around 50 000 jobs at the post office, but also provide the basis for new jobs in the high-tech sector. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With cash guarantees for the settlement water management fund of 3.9 billion schilling, we do not only trigger investments of around 11 billion schilling: We also ensure the high water quality in Austria. Additional impulses for the environment will be given with the amendment to the Environmental Promotion Act, which will ensure funding of a total of 1 billion Schilling in 1996. In the environmentally important area of old load renovation, additional projects of around 1 billion schilling will be launched through structural reforms. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, the Federal Government ensures that, despite ambitious economic initiatives, we are responsible for dealing with the natural resources of our country. [[Call to the liberals: Where?]] Growth and the environment are no contrast for us. Austria will continue to play the ecological pioneering role in Europe! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A second priority, ladies and gentlemen, is the security of the welfare state so necessary for the standard of living of the Austrian population. Increased efforts are being made to combat the abuse of the social network, to adjust some measures and to increase the efficiency of the institutions. These include the overdue reorganisation of hospital financing as well as the long-term insurance of the pension system. And, ladies and gentlemen, despite the necessary adjustments to the social standard in Austria in the second half of the 1990s, it will be higher than at the beginning of this decade. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] After this review of the policy objectives, backgrounds and future aspects of the consolidation programme, I would like to draw your attention to the expenditure page. Two thirds of the consolidation volume is achieved through savings. However, sustainable structures are also being changed – and this is of particular importance – that will achieve their full savings only in a few years – in 1998, 1999, 2000 and more. These include measures such as the promotion of the employment of older workers, the gradual increase of the actual retirement age at the unchanged legal boundaries, measures for efficient and slender administration with a gradual transition also to private-law forms of organisation – contracting out, outsourcing are considerations that need to be very critical – in order to avoid abuse of and non-useful use of services, better return assistance in the profession as well as the review of transfer services for efficiency and incentive effects. Ladies and gentlemen! If you consult the laws in detail, you will find out how to break down obsolete structures with them and now lay the basis for long-term effective reforms. We are thus creating the conditions for a sustainable discharge of the budgets of the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Public services account for 16 billion schillings in total. In order to achieve this objective, measures were put in place for future pensioners in both the assets and pension rights. Staff expenditure in the public service will not be significantly increased by 1997 but stabilised at the 1995 budget implementation level. For this purpose, legislative measures are put in place under the Service Laws, restrictive measures in the establishment plan and also in the budget implementation. The salary round for the public service is with one-time payments of 2 700 S to 1. ==References====External links== It was very moderate in February 1997 and does not burden the following years on a sustainable basis. The cost of this is 844 million schilling for the year 1996 and 1,500 million schilling for the following year. A total of 249 822 planning posts were available in the 1995 establishment plan. On the other hand, the 1996 establishment plan only has more than 234 066 posts. The difference is due to the savings of more than 5 200 planning posts and the breakdown of postal and telegraph management. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What does that mean?]] The 1997 establishment plan has 230 049 planning posts. The difference compared to the 1996 establishment plan is due to the savings of more than 4,000 more planned jobs. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What does Planstelle mean? Effective positions are interesting!]] Further savings are being examined as part of a monitoring. But what was essential to us, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to stress this very strongly: Additional facilities for the disabled and older unemployed are, of course, excluded from these measures. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Part of the consolidation measures in the public service are for school and higher education. There is also a need to reduce the continuous cost increase. In the field of schooling, it is planned to reduce the number of hours worked, to change the salary for evening school teachers, to increase the shift of teacher training to teaching time and to shift the additional services to young teachers. Free access to schools and universities remains. There are no tuition fees, no Numerus Claus. There is also sufficient and more resources available for investment in higher education institutions. There is sufficient flexibility for further negotiations in the savings in the area of personnel expenditure, while maintaining the savings target. And because, ladies and gentlemen, all of us are making their contribution, we have agreed on further zero-one rounds for politicians. In this context, I would also like to point out that the promotion of the parties will be considerably reduced. - Where's the applause? [[General hustle and bustle.]] The general objective in the field of public services is to approximate the actual retirement age to the statutory retirement age. About two thirds of the last year's public service in pensioners had this 60. Not yet completed. The retirement age is different in the various areas of public service, but is on average only about 56 years old. The resulting costs cannot be financed in the long run. In order to reduce the number of early retirements, an increased incentive to stay in service as long as possible must be given. As with the ASVG-pensions, early retirement will also affect the level of pension in the case of official pensions. The basis of rest is therefore to be used for each full year between retirement and completion of the 60. Year of life reduced by 2 percentage points. This significant structural reform in civil servants' pension law will only be sustainable in the following years. As early as 1996, however, a relatively small savings volume of about 600 million schillings will result and a volume of approximately 900 million schillings in 1997. In the following years, this will result in one to several billion schilling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, accompanying measures ensure that the reduction in the basis of rest is not over-compulsory. For example, in the event of early retirement due to a service accident or occupational disease, this reduction does not become effective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of social systems, we must ensure that these remain financially viable in Austria in the long term. To this end, the cost development of the various social security pensions must be monitored and reviewed. There is also a risk of an increase in early pensions. We have observed the following principles: 1. strengthening the insurance principle, 2. maintaining the statutory age limits for early retirement, 3. no interventions in existing pensions and 4. manageable transitional schemes that take into account personal life planning. In essence, four measures have been adopted: 1. the definition of longer periods of insurance for the right to early retirement; for this reason, with a looping scheme which should, in particular, reduce the problem with regard to women; 2. the reduction of the percentage of pensions in the case of early retirement; 3. the priority of rehabilitation prior to the recognition of an incapacity or invalidity pension; 4. the easier access to a pension due to reduced employment – it will be left for women at 55 years, but for men only after completion of the 57. Year of life allowed. As a further measure against early retirement from working life, the expiry of general special assistance in unemployment insurance should be referred to as a transitional model. These changes in pension and unemployment insurance legislation are accompanied by economic and labour market policies which ensure that older workers can be kept longer in the labour market, but that these jobs, which are no longer available to younger workers, are compensated for by other newly created jobs for younger workers. In addition to the measures to promote employment, a bonus malus system will be implemented in the event of recruitment or termination of workers for over 50 years. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Directly into a disaster!]] The importance of labour market policy is that there is no reduction in labour market promotion. Together with the funding from the European Union, there will even be an increase in funds for labour market promotion. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Positive labour market effects can also be expected from the introduction of the pension provisions still to be negotiated in detail, especially in the event of the meeting of pensions and employment, without the pension being affected. They should apply equally to all public pension schemes. Harmonization of pension systems is an essential objective. In addition to the above-mentioned measures, which will only develop their full impact in a few years, socially acceptable emergency measures were necessary. In view of the fact that the adjustment of social security pensions to 1st is necessary. In January 1996, the figure of 2.3 per cent was significantly higher than the forecast inflation rates, and we believe that there will be no general percentage adjustment in this area in 1997. Low income recipients will receive compensation of a total of 900 million schilling. Nevertheless, this measure, ladies and gentlemen, results in a savings of 4.6 billion schilling compared to the high bill. The level of self-financing has been increased for farmers' and commercial pensioners' pensions. The federal grant to pensions can thus be reduced by a total of 1.3 billion schilling. The statutory retirement age for old-age pensions, including the early retirement age for long-term insurance and for unemployment, remains unchanged for women and 60 years for men. The amount of the pension remains equally unchanged at the age pension, i.e. at the age of 60 for women and 65 for men. This is a support to life planning for women and men. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that trust protection is also safeguarded that pension rights are intact in its core. In this way, the Federal Government has also ensured that the active will not be taxed higher and that the additional wage costs will not increase. The measures set out in unemployment insurance's right to benefit are also intended to counteract concrete developments. The aim is to reduce the existing imbalance between contribution income and expenditure by extending the annual working time in seasonal sectors. Here we are counting on the support of the social partners in order to move quickly towards an appropriate system. Saving effects – and there is no doubt savings – in the case of karenz money, the reduction in the duration of the use by a parent to a maximum of one and a half years. To sum up, it remains for these two years, and for a single person, labour protection remains for two years. But we hope that this will also – I admit, it is a small incentive – that more fathers will be involved in childcare in the future. But it seemed important to us that there were new childcare programs and new childcare places for women who were at home after the child was born and first years of life. The Federation will support 600 million Schilling initiatives so that countries can quickly create the necessary childcare facilities. The misuse of unemployment support, black-and-collar employment, but also illegal employment – both on the employee and on the employer’s side – is strongly opposed by more efficient controls and more stringent sanctions. Savings in the care sector are aimed at stabilising expenditure on care payments by 1997 at 1995 level. Socially compatible and also discussed and negotiated measures with the care-necessary organizations, such as the retirement of the care allowance for hospital stays, ensure that the expenses for the care allowance are limited. However, this will be done in a socially balanced form. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite these savings, it will remain – and we can be proud of it – the quality of social services in Austria will continue to be in the top European field. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our elderly, our sick and needy fellow citizens can continue to rely on our sense of responsibility. High house! The Family Compensation Fund has developed high deficits in recent years. In the interests of the overarching objective of ensuring high-level family policy services in the future, there must also be adjustments in the field of family support. However, the core benefits of family policy should be preserved. The aim is to increase the reliability of the transfer services and to avoid general reductions as far as possible. In the absence of benefits, such as birth aid, there are transitional arrangements. Payments, which would still be made in 1996 and 1997, will be disbursed in 1996 – this applies to births up to 31. 12. 1996. However, there are also transitional schemes for low-income population groups; there is a kind of hardness fund, which ensures in particular the security of low-income population groups. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is a particular problem in the field of students: for example, the departure of free rides for students. Social hardships, which may occur, are avoided by a cost allowance. The link between family aid and the success of the study will and must also lead to savings. There are still discussions with the competent Federal Ministers here, so that the savings target is preserved in the performance of the parents of students, but flexibility exists in the methods. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if it is the goal of political agitation to prevent the implementation of the consolidation programme, I would like to insist here that it not only harms our country but also the future of the students. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! After this review of the expenditure side measures now to the revenue side. About one third of the federal consolidation needs are covered by the revenue side. The principle of "absorbing taxes instead of raising taxes" was that of the revenue-based measures. The reforms therefore focused on the closure of tax gaps, the removal of tax advantages, the elimination of tax subsidies and tax arrangements. In order to ensure the tax advantages of Austria's location, tax rates and tax rates were essentially not increased. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the tax system is also subject to additional expansional measures and incentives for the economy. Examples of this are the increase in the investment allowance from 9 to 12 percent for long-term investment goods, the reduction of the period for the transfer of silent reserves from three years to one year, thereby making money available to the economy, the acceleration of the deposit resolution provided for in the 1994 tax reform, and the abolition of the rent-rate deposit with a rapid, favourable resolution of the existing reserves. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you calculate only one moment, you will see that these measures will release additional investment funds. The height of the housing promotion – the very significant elevation of housing development! – will boost the construction industry in particular. Due to the increase in the maximum by 20 percent additional construction savings are also expected. [[Abg. Böhacker: When the premium is reduced at the same time!]] Social justice has also been given special attention in the measures on the revenue side. The burden of the various social groups is balanced. The contribution of the individual is in a fair relationship with its economic performance. In the case of tax reforms, it was taken into account that any type of income was actually covered. The tax measures will, in total, increase the net income of the federal government by more than 33 billion schilling, of which about 60 percent will already become effective in the 1996 budget year. Additional tax revenue comes from the breakdown of the post. Almost a quarter of this increase in total, ladies and gentlemen, will flow in the form of income shares to the countries and communities. In the area of wage and income taxes, there are now the following concrete changes: The introduction of rules for general deduction from income of 200 000 S and the deductibility of special expenditure from 500 000 S as well as the full tax obligation for overtime supplements are measures which comply with the principle of social justice only from the maximum basis of contribution. We have made sure that those involved in small and medium-sized incomes make a lower contribution to consolidation, that higher incomes will make a higher contribution to consolidation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the framework of the package of measures, a number of inconsistencies and abuses have also been removed. In fact, every logic lacks, for example, 13th and 14ths. In respect of the month on which the social security contributions in respect of this reference are to be deducted as advertising costs in the current reference. [[Abg. Böhacker: It must be a favor!]] The current tax advantage of Fiscal trucks also falls under these inconsistencies. In the course of corporate taxation, several – in itself reasonable – measures in recent years, such as final taxation, re-foundation tax law, foundation law and so on, have created some niches that have led to unplanned tax avoidance. Therefore, for example, the multi-use of losses in capital companies, the exploitation of the partial tax freedom of foundations also for corporate profits and the depreciation of company value are eliminated. In this sense, the abolition of the tax freedom of recovery profits is also a follow-up. Similarly, the current flat-rate 15 percent partial depreciation for foreign claims is abolished – but not if there is a risk assessment. But if an Austrian company delivers to its German subsidiary and can use 15 percent write-off as a risk discount, this is actually somewhat incomprehensible. At the same time, the tax-free return on banks and the risk-backs on insurance are re-regulated. We have also provided for new rules in the case of sales profits taxes: We have retained the half-rate tax for those operational tasks where the entrepreneur is already over 60. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, sales profits like all other profits in Austria will be fully taxed, but with the option of splitting up to five years. Loss models based on loss losses will be largely eliminated in the future. Of course, real losses continue to be offset. The tax exemption on rents, which has led to a disproportionate shift in the tax liability on rental income, is abolished. The transfer of silent reserves, which in the past was often exploited by a fee, is limited in so far as it can no longer be carried out on holdings at all and on land only more on the purchase costs of other land. In some areas, the previously twelve per cent set-aside of operating expenditure appears to be unwarranted, and is therefore reduced to 6 per cent. In order to ensure that all these measures, which will, of course, only be effective in the following years, now ensure liquidity for 1996 and 1997 and do not generate excessive income peaks in the following years, the advance payments on income and corporation taxes will be increased. In addition to this general five-percent increase, the support of the loss premium for the next two years – the 1989/90 losses premium will not be abolished; no loss premium will be applied only for the years 1996 and 1997 – and also by increasing the minimum-cost rate from 15 000 S to 50 000 S the required liquidity will be achieved. In the case of wage tax, the effectiveness of the allowances for special expenditure shall be suspended, and new clearance decisions shall be adopted without delay for advertising costs and exceptional charges. High house! An important measure is the introduction of the energy tax on gas and electricity. This introduces a practically comprehensive taxation of energy, including the mineral oil tax already existing and raised in the previous year. However, in order to eliminate the most negative effects on the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, the new energy tax for goods-producing companies is limited by 0.35% of the value added. As we believe, ladies and gentlemen, it is also to be expected that there will be impulses for energy-saving and therefore also environmentally friendly production of space heat as well as energy-saving products. Part of the package of measures concerns the motor vehicle sector. On the one hand, the pre-tax deduction is limited to real trucks, i.e. those with a separate box, by abolishing the so-called Fiscal trucks. The standard excise duty formula will in future be based on the new EU-wide consumption measurement, and the spray will be slightly increased by increasing the maximum tax rate. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the tax depreciation period for cars of economic use is adjusted and set at eight years, i.e. the depreciation rate is limited by 12.5%. This consolidation package also includes an increase in the capital income tax rate from 22 per cent to 25 per cent and accompanying this – I think this is a very essential point – an increase in the insurance tax on the so-called short-runners in the field of life insurance from 4 to 11 per cent. Furthermore, there will be an increase in tobacco tax and inheritance tax. High house! A fiscal consolidation package of this scale certainly also leads to income loss of the population. Nevertheless, I have already mentioned it, as surveys also show, there is understanding of the need for these measures. It is undoubtedly important for their acceptance that no population group is exempted and that the personal contribution is largely based on the respective financial performance. Calculations that have been presented – most recently coming from Tyrol – and try to show that particularly well-earned payees contribute less to their income in relation to their incomes, pass by reality. It is not taken into account that the highest income-saving constructions, such as loss participations and the like, have played a special role. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a mistake to assume, ladies and gentlemen, that high income could simply be met by a higher peak tax rate. In many cases, the income to be taxed by taking advantage of various depreciation possibilities is significantly below the economic income. It is therefore far more efficient to identify the tax base, to determine the tax income, as Figurea shows. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the principle of social balance, we have achieved a number of reform points which make the Austrian tax system more understandable, modern and easier to manage. In addition – and we must be proud of it in the sense of our business settlements – the attractive tax rates in Austria could be maintained. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! At the latest with the entry into force of monetary union, a new quality of financial and budgetary policy is required. The financial performance of all public households is crucial. This means that cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities is necessary in order to achieve the budget objectives. The budgets of the federal, state and local authorities in Austria are determined by the financial compensation. This instrument secures the financial basis of the countries and municipalities and takes into account the federalist principle of the federal constitution. Budget consolidation measures are therefore necessary in the area of budgets of all three levels of local government. In recognition of this common cost responsibility, countries and municipalities have committed not to exceed a deficit ceiling of 0.3% of gross domestic product in 1997. In order to achieve this objective, the national and local authorities will also be required to implement the personnel economic measures set by the Federal Government in their area. In the context of the financial compensatory negotiations, the Financial Balance Act 1993 was extended by one year until 1996. It is important, however, that in these financial compensatory negotiations it was possible to reach agreement on the possibility of a new law on financial compensation between 1997 and 2000. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On this basis, the federal government receives an advance deduction of 3,75 billion schilling from the countries and municipalities in addition to its share according to financial compensation. In addition, the Federal Government reserves a share of 1.7 billion schilling, which would be allocated to the disaster fund and FLAF from the surplus income. In the urban water sector, which regulates water supply and waste water disposal, the existing funding volume was secured by the year 2000. The annual cash guarantee of 3.9 billion schilling will trigger investments of around 11 billion schilling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The federal government also receives an amount of 828 million schilling from the energy tax for environmentally friendly and energy-saving measures. The municipalities receive 350 million Schilling from this title for the support of public passenger transport. Besides – and that's a huge crumb! – the countries receive additional housing aid of around 3 billion schilling. Local authorities benefit from the distribution of the postal service an additional income on municipal tax of around 500 million schillings. The financial compensation partners have also agreed to solve the major problem of hospital financing within a few weeks. [[Call to the liberals: I look at that!]] If an agreement is reached in the near future, the Federal Government has prepared additional funds for it. Between 1997 and 2000, the Federal Government will also provide 3 billion schilling for the financing of hospitals to address the problem of the host patient, but also for the structural adjustment of the cost situations in the individual Länder, if the following requirements are met: 1. Development of a binding Austrian health care plan, 2. Development Plan for Ambulances, 3. Solution of the host patient question, 4. The establishment of a structural commission, which also deals with extra-mural areas and the disadvantaged. But one of the most important things is that the transition to the LKF service-oriented health care system is included with a "cost cover", so that the cost development in the health care sector will be managed in the future. The Federal Government, with the support of the reform of the funding of hospitals, aims to ensure that the comprehensive health care system remains financially viable in the future and that its high level is maintained. High house! For the achievement of the convergence criteria for participation in economic and monetary union, the overall public budget is crucial. By 1997, the overall maximum deficit is to be reduced to 3 per cent of gross domestic product. This consists of 2.7 percent of the federal government and 0.3 percent of the local authorities. On the basis of the budget data for 1996 and 1997, an Austrian convergence programme will now be drawn up, which will be transmitted to the National Council and the relevant European Union bodies. In order to support this mutual coordination in order to ensure the convergence criteria, a consultation mechanism between the local authorities – the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities – should be established equally. High house! Finally, I would like to give a brief overview of some budget chapters which have not already been discussed in other contexts. For example, the Supreme Institutions and all the departments will contribute to consolidation by essentially stabilising staff and material expenditure for 1996 and 1997 through committed reorganisation programmes at 1995 level. For grants from the National Council to the National Fund of the Republic of Austria, 200 million schillings are estimated in 1996 and 1997 and 400 million schillings are provided for in the Federal Finance Act. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Which is forgotten again and again: For multilateral and bilateral development assistance, a total of around 8 billion schilling is included for the years 1996 and 1997. Bilateral assistance to Eastern European countries will be subject to the budgetary targets of the previous year. In 1996 and 1997 the Austrian contribution to reconstruction measures in the former Yugoslavia will be taken into account by an overcapacity of 100 million Schilling. In the area of the interior resort, the construction of the border service of the federal army represents a new challenge. Close cooperation with customs authorities will keep staff costs more cost-effective than originally planned. The burden here is also that temporarily the extension of the German army's assistance at the state borders in the East is planned. In the field of refugee care and integration expenditure, savings from the development of peace in ex-Yugoslavia and also through the return of war displaced persons are possible. An efficient and rapid design of the case law will lead to savings in the staff and material expenditure of the judicial unit. A focus will be placed on the development of security facilities in court buildings and judicial institutions. The development of the IT equipment of the judicial administration will ensure a more efficient judicial system. The revenue-based measures take account of the principle of cost-effectiveness. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Defence expenditure for 1996 and 1997 is mainly stabilised at 1995 level. The changeover to the new military system on time – that is to say, the time soldiers – results in shifts from the actual effort to the personnel. In addition to the ongoing Austrian participation in international peacekeeping operations, we have also made budgetary provision for the IFOR-Bosnia deployment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian agriculture is indeed facing major challenges through the accession of Austria to the European Union. The budgets for 1996 and 1997 provide for the appropriate assistance under the Europe Treaty. Agricultural support will be given to the extent agreed between the Federal Government and countries, with the aim of ensuring the exploitation of EU co-financing. The transitional measures have resulted in savings in respect of the 1995 budget implementation due to the degressive compensatory payments and, of course, by the withdrawal of any remaining financing from the previous Austrian agricultural market system. In the course of the administrative reform, at the end of 1996, two Bundesanstalts will be abandoned, and the Austrian Federal Forests will be distributed from the budget as quickly as possible, but the question of ownership will be examined, in particular with regard to land ownership, because it is the protection of the most important groundwater resources in Austria, the protected forest for the alpine regions and, last but not least, the largest nature reserves in our country. High house! This consolidation programme, this consolidation package naturally improves expenditure dynamics. Sometimes it's not pleasant. But it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, and it is accompanied by offensive measures. It has recently been called "as courageous as inevitable and socially balanced", so that "the nature of the programme can serve as a model for the international community". Ladies and gentlemen! The most beautiful thing about this recognition is that it does not come from its own ranks, but it comes from the delegation of the International Monetary Fund, which was recently here in the context of the current Austrian examination. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, This consolidation programme is necessary. Make sure that it can also be implemented. The same will no longer be necessary to the present extent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3104	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his comments. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3127	There is a request for the Government template concerning the first reading of the Federal Financial Laws for 1996 and 1997, 70 and 71 of the Supplements. Let me put this to the vote and ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a first reading. . I note that the National Council unanimously decided to carry out a first reading. She's on the lookout for tomorrow. 2. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 142/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Railway Act 1992 (84 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3169	Now we get to the 2nd place. Agenda item: Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 142/A by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Railway Act 1992 (84 of Supplements). Mr Seidinger has been elected rapporteur by the Committee. I ask him to initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3188	Mr President. High Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the task of presenting the report of the Committee on Transport on Amendment 142/A by Mr Rudolf Parnigoni and Mr Comrades on a federal law amending the 1992 Federal Railway Act. It is essentially that the Supreme Court has decided that the Federal Law must be amended. At its meeting of 19 December, the Transport Committee held a meeting of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. On 6 March, after a debate of six Members, the request was put to the vote and adopted by a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Transport Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation annexed to the written report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3215	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. At the beginning of today's meeting, we decided on a block-time of two hours in Vienna, so that the following speeches can be made: SPÖ 30 minutes, ÖVP 28 minutes, Free 26 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 18 minutes. Mr Rosenstingl spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3242	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can describe it as just too typical if, after the first item on the agenda, the speech of the Minister for Finance, today, we are dealing with a subject which clearly shows that this government coalition is in fact incapable of adopting proper laws. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it were capable of doing so, we would not have to deal with the Federal Railway Act today, namely a pass which the Constitutional Court of Justice has abolished. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Your decision!]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You have no idea!]] In this context, the question arises why, after the Constitutional Court on 9 October, we should ask ourselves why. On 1 March 1995 a provision of law with a period of until 31 March 1995. It is only now, at the end of March, that this repeal has been repealed in March 1996. It would have been time to look for and decide on a mature solution on this issue last year. But what happened? – Nothing happened last year! And now we are being presented with a Hush-Push proposal to be decided. It is quite a nonsense what some colleagues have meant by the government coalition in the Transport Committee, namely that one could not alter this pass, because one was too busy with government formation. Ladies and gentlemen! The government really took a long time to form and present itself to Parliament But one thing has to be kept in good hands with this government: It did not need it from March 1995 to March 1996, although it took a long time, but not so long. This means, however, that we would have had enough time to change that last year. If Mr Scholten believes that the election campaign has ended in between, I would like to say that the election campaign started at the earliest in October 1995 and not already in March 1995. So from March 1995, you could have decided on these arrangements by summer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This procedure shows that this government coalition, in particular the Federal Minister concerned, the current Minister of Finance and the former Minister of Transport Climate, speaks a lot but does little. Now something is being brought in, which is quite to be questioned. Federal Minister Scholten! Unfortunately, I had to find in the Committee on Transport that you were relatively uninformed about what it was all about and what backgrounds this question has. I am generally of the opinion that this change of competence, which has now taken place, has brought together the transport sector and the science sector – and for me the transport sector is a very important, extensive area – so that through this change of competence there is a wrong development in this place. I have the impression that this has been made of party interests, and transport policy remains on the road. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But why is this a husk-fush procedure now? – Constitutionality is still not established. Federal Minister! You really make it too easy for you to answer the question of the constitutionality of the new provision in the Transport Committee: It is impossible to rule out constitutional concerns. I think you would have had time to rule out constitutional concerns with this passus. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There is no one!]] I also wonder why the Socialists have celebrated it in such a way that it comes, in particular the representatives of the railways sitting in the Committee on Transport, because it is really a regulation that would in any case lead to a disadvantage for the railways, a disadvantage which may be unjust. There are advantages for the railways you can talk about, but there are disadvantages for the railways – and that is one thing you should talk about. And there you should stand up for the little railways who do their work every day! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr Edler! They must be aware that there is something here only until 31. 12. In 1992 the Commission adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to But if, for example, the serious case occurs in ten years, it could be that a staff member who, for example, has a salary of 25 000 s by collective contract increases, i.e. by legal increases, may have secured only 15 000 S instead of 25 000 S, namely the value he had at the time. I was very surprised that this was celebrated as a success that the Federal Minister defended in the Transport Committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Play They do not always appear as a railway representative, because the issues that are important to the railways fail You're always here! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] It is also interesting to note that the government is responsible for what it is responsible for and when it is responsible for something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] At the time, Federal Minister for Climate Change said on the question of how he came to the salary conclusion: As the Federal Minister of Employment, I am not responsible for the salary clearance, which is a question between staff representation and management. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where's the whole red game?]] Mr Edler! As a railway operator, they forget that the Federal Government officials responsible for the infrastructure have to pay. That is why the Federal Minister is already responsible and should be interested in the fact that the Federal Government pays. The interest must be present! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Edler! They're defending this now, saying, That's right, of course he's not responsible, so I'm asking you as a railway driver: Why have climate and ditz now agreed that there is a zero-son round in 1997 if they are not responsible? – At the time he was not responsible for the wage clearance, but now, in addition to the staff representation and the management of both, climate and ditz, he cannot be responsible – not at all, since he has nothing to do with the railway at all – and these two are now negotiating a zero-one round for 1997. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] In ÖBB policy, this government, Mr Edler, is nothing but chaotic. She has no jurisdiction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Transport is always in breach of the ÖBB law – that belongs abandoned! Again and again, there are negotiations with countries in which countries are invited to contribute to the operation. You know very well that according to the ÖBB Act, the countries have nothing to do with the operation. The ÖBB Act states that, under certain circumstances, countries must contribute to infrastructure. It is therefore in breach of the ÖBB law in this way and it is necessary to finally introduce a local financing law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] It is rather ridiculous if you, Mr Federal Minister, in the Committee on the subject: What about the local financing law? Say, literally: "The work on the Transport Finance Act continues continuously!" – These works have been carried out continuously for many years – but there is nothing to be done, you can't specify a date for when the law will be presented here, when it will be sent for review. They're just saying: The work continues unbroken! – This work has been too long, and because of your inability the people concerned suffer – these are the people who need connections in the transport sector, the people, the railway and bus connections and so on. Federal Minister! In view of your comments, it should be feared that this local financing law will not be presented during this legislative period. It should be noted that: Obviously, the ÖBB law is bad, otherwise the Constitutional Court would not withdraw parts of it, otherwise the Transport Minister himself would not continuously infringe the ÖBB law. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Four words are removed!]] It should also be noted that the distribution of the federal railways has increased the need for funding rather than reduced the budgetary burden more than ever that private initiatives by the Austrian Federal Railways and by this law will be prevented by the fact that there is no burden on the budget, that the ÖBB Act is in need of innovation and that you are once again sparse in the process of innovation. The Transport Finance Act is unsolved; the present application concerning the ÖBB Act is a disadvantage for the railways, it is constitutionally worrying.– This is typical socialist transport policy. We liberals will not share in this chaos!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3421	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3443	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: ladies and gentlemen!]] Mr Rosenstingl – like shadow transport ministers – I have not read that you now have a chance at the shadow cabinet. In recent years, I have always believed that you are responsible for transport issues within the "F". You were the first speaker today, but what you have announced today, Mr Rosenstingl, is evidence of the ignorance of the ÖBB matter or of an ecologically acceptable transport policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you claim that the government is incapable of bringing in and adopting laws properly, I must tell you: You have valued yourself, because we here in Parliament already have the responsibility to pass laws – to decide them properly. At the time in the preliminary consultation of the Federal Railway Act 1992 it was such that the submission was examined in terms of its constitutional conformity. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be glad that the individual citizen can then, if he thinks something is wrong, invoke supreme courts. Today, we discuss the 1992 ÖBB Act on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 9 December 1992. 3rd. 1995 – An opposition from an ÖBB-college, who meant that it must continue to give the Republic the federal government responsibility for its right of service. He was right in this question – and only in this matter – and we are today invited to specify the relationship of trust between the federal government and those public authorities, which before the 1. 1. In 1993 the train took place. Ladies and gentlemen! It is sometimes said that the ÖBB could sometime be sent to insolvency. I'll tell you: The ÖBB currently owns 100 percent of the federal government, so there is no need to be any fear at all. A large majority of railways are not afraid of this either. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the 1992 ÖBB Act was also a challenge for the EU in the consultation process. It is EU-compliant, and the railway trade union at that time expressed its willingness to take part and to share responsibility. We have made substantial reforms. In particular, I should like to point out that the railways are the only group in the public service, in which new entrants have had a so-called ASVG service right for some time. This is a forward-looking decision. The Austrian Federal Railways are really on track for success due to the 1992 Federal Railway Act – Mr Sigl will continue to take part in it. The services currently provided by the ÖBB, in particular those provided in the interest of a reasonable transport policy, but also in the interest of the Republic, are available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: At the expense of the budget!]] ÖBB plays a very important role in Austrian transport policy. Again and again it is said that there must be a rethinking – combined with a changeover. The conditions for this have been created, and we have to include our environment in our considerations. As a discussion is currently taking place with Brussels, I say as an EU advocate: I am not at all delighted that there are reservations about bureaucratic bodies that are not appropriate. We have to discuss this in Brussels and we cannot agree to it. In Brussels, an EU White Paper highlights the burden of road transport. The ÖBB – which has also addressed climate finance ministers today – has a major role to play in employment policy. For the future – I think I can say that there is no difference in this respect between the parliamentary groups – we have to take precautions in the direction that we are expanding local transport – especially as regards the flows of commuters so that they can really change. We will probably have to consult a local transport law in the next few weeks. It is also about – and this has already been mentioned in the declaration by Federal Minister Klima today – finally coming to a so-called rail infrastructure financing law and trying, with private involvement, to expand the rail networks. It is said so often that it is necessary to leave some services to private people to discuss everything – Mr Firlinger has also mentioned this in the Committee on Transport. Agreed. However, I have not yet noticed that, for example, Mr Haselsteiner, as a large construction contractor – your business spokesman, who seems to have very good proposals, but who is more concerned with his statements – than offers private entrepreneurs with regard to the expansion of infrastructure, I have not heard that he proposes financing models. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haselsteiner, which is clearly stated here, lives on orders from the public authorities and depends on him receiving some funding! In any case, private individuals are not excluded from this area. In this connection, however, I should like to refer to the so-called Eurotunnel between the continent and Great Britain. We constantly hear the news that this does not count. That is why it is not possible to leave this to private people alone, but rather to see a national economic task. Ladies and gentlemen! As a railwayman, I say: I am pleased that in recent years, since we have had the law, the ÖBB and the railways have not been a dispute. It has been tried to deal with this objectively, but the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Civil Service Saving Package was the reason why a few seem to have awakened from the winter sleep and again led and led bitter attacks against the railways. Ladies and gentlemen! We have always explained - I say this for the railways - that the railways in the equivalent will carry the savings package of the public service. As a criticism of the Federal Government: We have our own organs that are elected and ordered, we have the staff representation that is elected, and these have autonomous to negotiate. The fact that these negotiations have resulted in increased pension contributions for the railways and also the involvement of pensioners is something of a one-time nature; it is unique that there is solidarity here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka, where else do you find this solidarity? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: They disavow the castle!]] The fact that over a billion schillings also contribute to the consolidation of the government budget is worth recognition for our railways and railways. I should like to point out that 80 per cent of the railways are in use around the clock, i.e. day and night service, Sunday and holiday service, and are therefore subject to certain burdens. And a basic requirement for us to take measures that are necessary to be as economical as possible, but to seek a solidaric solution – and this has happened. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by pointing out that the ÖBB Act is also a basis for the health of the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Hard measures to be taken by railways are being implemented – that is certainly not easy. Exbundesminister Streicher has already launched transport policy reforms, ex-transport minister climate has implemented them efficiently, and our new transport minister Scholten has our full confidence. At the meeting of the Transport Committee, he pointed out in the brief idea that he would be able to implement a future-oriented, environmentally acceptable national transport policy. ÖBB will certainly have an important part to play in this transport policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3539	The next speaker is Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3560	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Edler were right about the state of transport policy and the state of the federal railways, I would be very pleased personally. But I fear: He is not quite right – although we do not differ so much in relation to some visions in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a detailed rehabilitation – Mr Mag. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... I wanted to know visions!]] Kukacka, I know you don't know the word "visions" so well. This is the basic problem of your policy, Mr Mag. Kukacka, but you'll tell us later what traffic policy visions the ÖVP has. The only problem is that I have come to know the previous transport policy concepts of the ÖVP – I don't want to call them "visions" – under the motto of "copt savings of the railways" and under "fully free ride for free citizens on Austria's roads". And that is exactly what we can no longer accept and no longer need for environmental policy. We have here today a detailed recast of the ÖBB law on decision-making. A question has already been raised in this debate, which is still a problem, namely the constitutional acceptance which, in my opinion, is not clearly clarified in this amendment and reorganisation proposal. I think this is a serious failure that can go at the expense of the railways – not have to go, but can go; you should not paint the devil on the wall. In fact, due to the present situation, this readjustment of the ÖBB legislation should have long led to a total reorganisation of the fully unsuccessful ÖBB legislation; a completely unsuccessful OBB law which led to a breakdown. Mr. Edler! We're probably not going to disagree so much: Our central transport policy problem is currently the lack of or unclear access of transport policy to the ÖBB, which also means a withdrawal from the responsibility for the ÖBBB. I have a railway group in Austria for which the Republic is responsible. After a large dedusting action – in that we will agree, probably even with power. Kukacka, which has to be dusted in many areas of detail – it has to be said: full responsibility for this company, for this group, also in financial terms. At present, the situation is such that we have delegated the railways to our own responsibility and that the railways are now on a stop track, because there is no coordinated transport policy with a view to public transport, environmentally friendly transport in this country, in this Federal Government, which I fear will be rewritten. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is the main problem, and there must be a general reorganisation of the ÖBB legislation: clear overall responsibility of the public authorities for these ÖBB Group, with the measures necessary for dedusting, and with the consequences of coordinated transport policy, with priority for public transport in that country. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the last election campaign, the OECD report on the environmental situation in Austria was often presented. I am still reminded of television discussions in which, for example, Mrs. Ederer, Member of the Federal Manager, went home with the "Best Notes for Austria" environmental certificate. In addition to positive chapters on the Austrian environmental situation, it has overlooked a detailed chapter: the transport chapter. The OECD is giving a disastrous witness to traffic in Austria. Road transport increases of over 80 percent since 1980 are the highest rates of increase in the OECD area. That means something's wrong here. Mr Kukacka! Faith You really are saying that we are up this disastrous curve, which will soon make us a car driver's nation number one in Europe – we are at the rate of increase in road traffic by twice the OECD average – that we can continue this disastrous increase in road traffic in the next few years? If you believe this, accept it and accept it, you will also accept that in the next few years we will have record ozone values, that we will have a forced forest death and that transport policy in Austria has failed de facto! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not have this coordinated transport policy – and there should be the overall renewal of the ÖBB legislation. [[At the government bank, Federal Minister Dr. Scholten and Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein talk to each other.]] – I think it’s nice when the Minister for the Environment speaks to the new Minister for Transport, because these are the two resorts that have to go hand in hand here. I hope that this will also be the subject. But the actual Minister of Transport is no longer here. He's actually sitting here. He has a different name: He is the Minister of Economic Affairs in this country. We have a black transport policy in the truest sense of the word, a deep-black transport policy by the Minister of Economic Affairs, who, on road construction, road construction, road construction, on low tariffs and on no steps towards cost-truth, and we have attempts to achieve a more ecological planning policy in the area of the actual Ministry of Transport, which, however, also clearly fail, because nothing goes wrong. This Federal Government has not taken advantage of the great opportunity to create unified competences, to create a strong Ministry of Transport. The opposite happened. The traffic is somehow docked, attached to a relatively large, already existing resort and, I fear, remains an attachment there. So one of the main issues for the future in the environmental field cannot be solved! We have an uncoordinated transport policy with an ÖBB law that has put the railway on the line, we do not have a local transport financing law, we do not have a federal road map. Mr Kukacka! The brakers from the ÖVP are always on hold. I really have to appreciate your achievements. I really have to appreciate that! You're only on the wrong side! It is always the concrete and asphalt fraction on transport policy issues, and that is the Austrian People's Party. We don't have a local financing law. The cities, the municipalities, the countries, the public transport carriers are still on the verge of pleite. They only have a possibility of action through cross-subsidisation from the energy sector to the transport sector in the cities. We do not have a federal road map, so there are no priorities and no priority lines, especially in the constructions of HL-AG and thus in the large railway buildings, and we do not have a single place. This will continue to be done in this country. A small flicking work on the ÖBB Act is carried out out from an occasion out because you can no longer change. Unfortunately, the great throw of an overall reform of the ÖBB, the great throw of a fully coordinated competence in the field of transport, remains God's. In the field of the Federal Government, the Tohuwabohu – I do not mean the ORF broadcast by the same name – is actually the restless chaos. One hand doesn't know what the other is doing. In my opinion, a classic example of this is the question of the planned new infrastructure concepts in the railway and road sectors. In the railway sector, we will still have a very precise answer to this question. We have already put parliamentary questions to this effect. In the street area it is extremely interesting. It is planned to expand the trans-regional road construction, which is de facto an attempt to escape from the Maastricht convergence criteria with a debt of over 85 billion schilling. Mr Kukacka! You probably know as well as I do – if not better; perhaps you are with one of the planners in this context – who is currently drawing up these infrastructure concepts, these breakdown concepts. – It is a Vorarlberg civil engineer who actually came out of Nirwana, out of nowhere. Do you know who the Commissioners of this Lord are? PORR AG, STUAG, STRABAG and a fourth large construction company. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There are no good suggestions from you!]] The future infrastructure planning in Austria is already being created by those who want to make money. It is their legitimate right to want to make money, but transport policy priorities cannot be made dependent on the question of whether a group is predestined for tunnel construction, and therefore, because this group has the highest qualities in tunnel construction, chooses a large series of tunnel constructions in Austria. That can't make any sense, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All in all – Mr. Edler will probably give me justice in a quiet hour – the ÖBB – whether we are honest – are facing the financial ruin after this breakdown. [[Abg. Edler: That's not true!]] If you talk to your Director-General, Mr Draxler, you will judge the situation a bit differently! I believe that the ÖBB is in an incredibly tense financial situation for a number of reasons – I agree. [[Abg. Edeller: Every train in Europe!]] That's the tragedy! Every railway in Europe is currently in a very precarious financial situation. But this has to do with European transport policy. This has to be done with the fact that the competitive situation of railways and public transport as a whole in Europe is at present inconceivable, because the financial burden is entirely one-sided with the railway and the actual cost of road transport is not taken into account. That means, of course, we also need European solutions towards a new road cost directive. That is completely undisputed! But we also need measures in Austria, which do not seem to be logical next steps, to drive the railway to a further financial increase by, for example, demanding charges of use in the future, because this would, of course, further strain the financial situation. If we look at what Director-General Draxler has precalculated on user charges, for example in the example Semmering Base Tunnel, we have to ask ourselves: How should the ÖBB be able in its current financial situation, should the Semmering Base Tunnel actually be built in the coming years, with these calculated user charges, so that the projects expect to offer an attractive range of trains and actually pay these charges? How is it responsible, Mr Kukacka, that the railway is now thinking of selling the power stations as well? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I'm not the Transport Minister!]] – Thank God you are not the Minister of Transport, Mr Kukacka; this is another blessing in this country! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you are close to it, and that is the problem of this railway, which is why this railway is in a dead end, ladies and gentlemen. How is it responsible that the ÖBB are in such a disastrous financial situation that they already have to sell off their power plants? [[Abg. Edler: The Rosenstingl demands this over and over again!]] Mr Edler, what does that mean for the future? – This means, of course, enormously increased costs in the future when these power plants are gone. This does not mean a possibility of self-sufficiency, a complete dependence on the market price in this context and a massive increase in actual costs. In other words, the train must sell its last family silver so that it can penetrate and survive financially over the next two or three years. This is with a consequence of this ÖBB law, an ÖBB law that has cut red and black in this house, at the expense of public transport, at the expense of public transport, at the expense of railways, at the expense of the environment. You will not believe seriously by starting a minimal detail flicking work here today, you have taken the ÖBB out of the dead end. That is why we cannot give our assent to this step either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3695	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Kukacka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3716	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Anschober and, I believe, Mr Rosenstingl – which can be said in comfort – have missed the opportunity to make reasonable, sensible, practical and, above all, feasible proposals on transport policy. The usual roundings you make here at the speaker's desk do not do anything in the matter at all and only show that you have no transport policy competence. Just keep going! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to say the following about the Federal Railway Law: We welcome this novel. We have always assumed that this § 21, according to which the company ÖBB continues the rights and obligations of the federal government towards the active staff and the beneficiaries of retirement and care benefits, means that all active servants who have been in a service relationship until the exclusion have, of course, the Federal Government as guarantees for their corresponding remuneration. Today's decision-making also repairs a corresponding constitutional concern of the Court of Justice, which considers that the exclusion of the ÖBB into a legally independent company was linked to a deterioration in the legal position of the active ÖBB staff, because it was feared that the insurance existing for their claims would have been lost, since the ÖBB could now, at all events, go into bankruptcy as an independent company distributed by the federal government, while previously the federal government had, so to speak, unlimited reserves of coverage. This danger that, as a result of a bankruptcy, any charges of the railway staff would have been lost can no longer occur. This deterioration of the legal position for former ÖBB staff is eliminated by this innovation, and thus also the original intention of the legislator is restored, because no one wants a deterioration of the legal position of the ÖBB staff; certainly not the Austrian People's Party. What we want and what we have already urged of the more often is a just, comparable remuneration, service and pension system, which is not known to be preferred to the public services. That's our concern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also in the interest of ÖBB staff so that it does not always come to the mutual playing out of the various groups of the public service. That is why it was also very justified that Mr Schlögl, State Secretary, wrote a letter to the Board of Directors asking him to enforce equivalent measures with regard to the ÖBB, as agreed for the other public service. This was a real and necessary requirement, linked to a second, namely, that – with the aim of pre-accession of the actual retirement age to the statutory retirement age – a 2 percent reduction of the pension will be retained for each year at which the statutory retirement age will be lowered. That is to say, the Secretary of State has called for these arrangements to be implemented in a similar way with the Austrian Federal Railways. The Minister for Finance also pointed out that: Yes, this must be implemented in the public service. There has already been an agreement between climate and ditz on the increase in railway pension contributions. That is correct, necessary and justified. That's what we're confessing. This will also be implemented accordingly. This is a real step, but it can only have been a first step for reasons of justice to all other groups of public service. If certain rationalization measures have also been initiated by the Austrian Federal Railways – and we recognise this – there is still a further way ahead of them to actually become a modern, powerful, customer-oriented company. The introduction of the actual retirement age to the statutory retirement age is very important. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently – these are the figures from 1995 – the railways are on average retired at 53 years and four months. That's too early – that's no question at all. [[Abg. Edler: What about the sliders?]] And because of this low retirement age the number ratio of pensioners to the assets is so unfavourable. Today, there are 60 000 active 73 000 pensioners and pensioners in the railways. This relationship just isn't right. In the postal sector, 54 000 active 40 000 pensioners are opposed. [[Abg. Edler: You compare with the SUG-pensioners!]] This ratio must be corrected. This is where the development is going in the wrong direction. If you don't believe me, believe in me. You, at least, your own Minister of Finance, who only took this claim half an hour ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have always heard of the recent ÖBB management success reports, especially for the sales sector. I do not even argue that success has occurred. The rationalization measures are certainly necessary. Productivity has been increased. Excess service posts have been abolished. But this is only one side of the medal; that must be clear to us. Then: There is no such thing as excessive optimism in this question as to shift the main structural problems of the federal railways from the company to the state and to the budget. This has clearly been the case in the last two or three years. In the case of staff expenditure, a shift from the federal railways to the budget is made, because if federal railways, as we have just heard, are regularly sent to retirement at 53,4 years on average and in the cases of early retirement, then the federal railways will save the salaries of these staff, but this savings will be at the expense of the budget, because the federal government must now pay for the pensions of the public service staff. This amount currently accounts for between 15.5 and 16 billion schilling in the year. In the infrastructure sector, not only pensions, but also all assets are borne by the federal government. So we see clearly and clearly: The railway is to a good part at the expense of the federal government, at the expense of the budget, at the expense of the out-of-budget debt of the railway, for which the federal government is also liable. This is a way that must not be continued! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Internal regulations also counterbalance a desirable extension of life-time work. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: After your speech, do you agree to the law?]] What we decide today is right and necessary, Mr Haider. I would like to say that. What we decide today is a proper and necessary measure. Mr Rosenstingl has even said that what we decide is not enough. He even wants to see even more decided for the railways. So do not object to this question! I must say that clearly and clearly to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He's an opportunist like the peasant chambers!]] I just want to point out a fact: At the Bundesbahnen there is a fidelity fee for 40 years of service. But this loyalty fee for 40 years of service is already paid out at 35 years. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Insanity!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There is also this at the National Bank!]] This does not create any incentive to work longer, because anyone who reaches the pension allowance at 35 years of service receives the 40-year-old fidelity allowance and then goes into retirement. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's the same thing at the National Bank! What are you so upset about the railways?]] We have long felt that these things should be abolished at the National Bank, just as they should be abolished in the Federal Railways. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have the opportunity to do so! Then why don't you do it?]] [[Abg. Edler: Is that your opinion or that of the ÖVP? Otherwise we need to talk about other things too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a development that we do not want to carry. So you see, there is much to do with the Austrian Bundesbahnen. The Minister of Transport has great problems to solve as the owner. We will support him where he is working with us to tackle the major problems of the railways. We will offer him our cooperation and wish him success, even in the interests of Austrian transport policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3898	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Meschberger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. The maximum speaking time for you is 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e3920	Mr President. Minister! High house! Member of the Kukacka has gone out here and has criticized colleagues Rosenstingl and his ideas and proposals for solving our transport problems. We have counted on how many possible solutions Mr Kukacka has put in his speech. We have come to nothing because I believe that the problem of transport problems in Austria cannot be solved by means of fidelity schemes and retirement age schemes. Mr Kukacka! It has already been allowed to expect from a new Minister of Transport, of which nothing has been heard of in principle on the subject of transport and the related problem at all, to obtain a few declarations of principle. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Schifferlversken he can already!]] But he's not particularly interested in matter either, apparently he's not read in, otherwise he'd have heard something. [[Abg. Böhacker: He's thinking about the future! You don't understand the whole thing!]] He did not even listen to the first three speakers, Mr Zukunftsminister, who is also subject to the field of transport. Ladies and gentlemen! A comparison is needed if one has listened to this debate, namely what Austrian media and transport policy have in common. Both areas together are particularly one: that nowhere does anything go further, that no government policy takes place on these issues and that, finally, when a legislative decision is taken, this post-turning must be repealed by the Constitutional Court, because something is wrong in the back and in the front. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the sentence of the day: nothing goes on!]] After the failure in road transport and transit policy, it seems that there is a similar fiasco to the great hope of solving traffic problems, railways: Billion debt, which ultimately brings no solutions, but only burdens to the citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that this fiasco is already beginning in the planning area. While, after years of real criticism of the opposition and the Court of Auditors, the road construction companies have succeeded in making two out of six companies, that is, a red and a black – unlike in this proportion division – unfortunately, it is not in this country – one goes the other way. It is made up of two planning companies, which have not done anything else, three: The Brennerstreckensplanungsgesellschaft adds to the infrastructure of ÖBB itself and HL-AG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] There you see, Mr Lukesch, you too will have to admit that – how the cat bites in the tail here. On the one hand, the railway management for Tirol and Vorarlberg in Innsbruck is dissolved, because there is nothing going on because there is one failure after another, see e.g. ecombi or the terminal in Wörgl and many other things more, and on the other hand you do not know what to do with the functionals that you put in front of the door. Government politicians then have the "glorious" idea to set up a planning society, for a burner line with the main planning point Brenner-Batistunnel, of which everyone in this house and everyone in Tyrol knows that it is ultimately unfinancing and can never be built if the EU does not co-finance. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr President, I should like to thank You know exactly what the EU's responsibility in this area has been for us. They told us: No tired Mark in the Brenner Base Tunnel! The Germans have also predicted this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Italians have no interest in investing something there, Austria will remain. [[Abg. May. Main: bacon!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: 80 percent of the planning costs will be taken over!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 50 percent!]] Mr Lukesch! I'm a step further with thinking than you are. I wonder, Why do I plan something I will never build? That's the question that concerns me. They know as well as I do that the train has passed us for a long time. The Gotthard Tunnel and the Lötschberg in Switzerland will be put into operation in 2004 and the railway transit will end there, the Swiss will have rail traffic and also do business with it. We're not gonna do business with it. We continue to have road transport and the environmental impact in Tyrol. You should consider this as a Tyrolean MP, and not always defend things that cannot be defended. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They know exactly what we are doing here by means of the EU's insanity action, which is ready to provide 400 million schilling for the planning of a route that will never be built because 400 million schilling has been co-financed from Austria. This is where a planning company is established so that you can employ Director Lindenberger and accommodate officials – that is the first part. The second part is that people in Tyrol are turning sand into their eyes and saying that you are planning anyway, you try everything, you will solve it already, although you are aware that this solution will not actually take place. The result for Tyrol is clear, you also know it: 25 per cent air deterioration in Hall in Tyrol due to the sleepy transport policy, the sleeping railway expansion, the over-the-table drawing at transit negotiations! All these things you have to share with your red colleagues. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since it is useless to build a planning society, to provide 800 million schilling and to explain the people of Tyrol as so stupid that they do not understand! You have the invoice on the 17th. The election results of the Tyrolean People's Party were presented in December 1995. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many voices did he make?]] – Not many, I don't know exactly, it's not worth mentioning. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's not talk about it!]] The preferred votes have been very few; at the next speech I will bring the number. We have to go back to the subject quickly, because a colleague will still speak, and we need time. I would like to say something about the 60 billion Schilling package presented by the Minister for Finance today, which is being made available for railway development. That's such a thing: One has provided the train with 60 billion schilling. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know exactly that this is nothing but a credit guarantee from the Minister of Finance and not a provision of capital. The Federal Railways with their economic figures and their economic outlook will never be able to repay even the interest for these 60-billion-shilling loans. In the end, it remains the federal government, it is reserved for the taxpayer, and nothing has happened except that this 60 billion-billion-shilling financing has been distributed from the general budget. These are the real backgrounds, and I believe that we will not continue in transport policy. In this way, development is not managed quickly enough as we need it to solve our really serious problems. I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Anschober, when he says that there was a final cut made here, here was dusted and new momentum taken with a private solution. I also believe that the German railways in this area are a good example. There you really got a heart, there you made nails with heads. Mr Heinz Dürr, the Executive Board of the AG of the Bundesdeutsche Bahn, has made the condition that he will only take over the job if he can really approach it unpolitically in an independent stock company. [[Abg. Edler: Mr Meischberger! What's the German Railway doing? Lock!]] ==References== In July 1993 this stock company took up its operations, a so-called black zero was written in 1995 – the ÖBB do not know how to write a black zero – and in 1996 one expects profits, dear colleague. I believe that politics has also contributed to this by ultimately taking a heart in depoliticizing the whole, and by replacing finance ministers Waigel with 400 billion Schilling old debts – so many in Germany. And he did well because he saved the German citizens 730 billion new debt for the next ten years. These are solutions that can be seen and which can be put into practice within two years. Mr Edler! They are a personal example of how such a thing can never succeed in Austria. [[Abg. Edler: Go, go!]] It can never succeed, therefore, because the Austrian Bundesbahnen will always be playing a game between the Red Minister of Finance and the Red Minister of Transport – even if he doesn't hear the whole thing like that – because it is only about securing 60,000 ÖBB votes for the SPÖ. That's the power game, that's the acting we hopefully don't have to watch for long. This is the true background, why you can't really start anew, why you can't really create new structures that would ultimately help us. I would have liked to hear some concrete basic statements from you today, Mr Federal Minister. We know that you have already indirectly mixed in transport policy, not by rail and not by road, but by waterways, at that time still as Secretary of the former Minister of Finance Vrannitzky. You have proved how fast it can go with a good thing like the DDSG if you want to go a little boating and put 500 million schilling in the Danube. This has ultimately resulted in the fact that DDSG no longer exists today, although this waterway would be a highly interesting transport area for Austria. Here you have mixed – rather immeasurable. I would like at least today Your promise is that the Austrians no longer have to expect such a thing from you in the transport policy. So far, we have lacked faith in it. But maybe you can give us security through an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4120	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4141	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the 1992 ÖBB Act, which was adopted by reason of the decommissioning of the federal budget, does not contain a vulnerability, but a number of weaknesses. That is why I believe that this law needs a broad sense of revision, and I would have liked it to be. Instead, yesterday the Committee on Transport has dealt with a single correction, namely that which the Constitutional Court has not recognized on account of a successful private challenge for constitutional purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! As so often, at the very last moment, five minutes ago twelve, such a law repair was treated in a parliamentary way. ==References== March 1995 – that is the date of the Constitutional Court’s announcement – and today’s day has gone on for more than a year. This case clearly points out – yes, Mr Kukacka, I come back to your comments – how the government is actually working: inefficient, sloppy and without innovation! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The Rosenstingl has already said that! That's nothing new!]] There would not have been this external occasion, ladies and gentlemen, then the existing Federal Railway Act would have been formally and materially cemented over the next few years. I dare to say that from this point of view. The government groups would have waited until this case ended sometime before the Constitutional Court. But a genuine reform of the content would certainly not have taken place. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need to believe that the problems of disseminating the ÖBB are the problems of the table. This really only took the very first step; an important step, but only a first step, so to speak, the basic requirement to be able to set in motion a continuous ÖBB reform at all. At this stage, the government fractions have stopped. Nothing's moved. I shall be allowed to ask myself: What has really been going on since the two years ago? – I found a few points, but these are not exactly happy: First of all, a very problematic new right of service was created on the paper, which is not new at all. This right of service only has the name "new service law", since it seems that it was only a matter of giving the impression that the improvement of public service employees would be significantly reduced and significantly compared to private employees. Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, only the tip of the iceberg was cut with regard to the privileges of the ÖBB staff and, at best, the inequality treatment was somewhat mitigated. But that was certainly not a reform work. The past has been rewritten with the available resources. A second point I would like to highlight: Successful privatisation is often spoken of, in particular by the SPÖ government representatives. First of all, the current Minister of Finance's climate takes this word into its mouth. He is only too happy to claim how successful this "privatisation" – I must say: under quotation marks – has gone over the stage. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can say one comforting thing, and I won't tire of repeating it at this point again and again: A breakdown from the federal budget is far from privatization! It is the continuation of a previous state with a new face, namely in the legal form of a stock company, but it is basically still a continuation. It also has nothing to do with the alleged liberalisation of rail transport. Here, however, the terminology differences in general use seem to be quite large. Such liberalisation is only achieved if there has been a complete operational separation of infrastructure and railway operations – as the first condition – and if at the same time the monopoly of the ÖBB falls in the railway operation. Then liberalisation is achieved, otherwise not! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Please stop me with your sidecars, Mr. Colleague. They're always coming with me with the little Pimperlbahnen! [[Abg. Edler: Can the French drive with us or not?]] De facto the monopoly of the ÖBB has not been dismantled, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, we understand something else under liberalisation and not what is widely spread in Sunday's speeches, in particular by members of the SPÖ Group. The separation of infrastructure and railways exists only on paper in Austria. Grey is the theory, I would say, and completely different the daily reality. The mutual participation of the infrastructure in the sales and distribution sectors in the infrastructure sector only means that responsibility anonymity is increased and not reduced. If I speak of'responsibility anonymity', then I would like to take a word by Rudolf Streicher in my mouth, which I have known for a long time also from my extra-parliamentary activity, for he has also very much used this word in connection with the rationalization of companies. I think he hits the nail on his head with that word! An example of this anonymity, ladies and gentlemen, I see how this so-called 60-billion schilling thing is handled. At the time, he was still Minister of Transport, he was both for a time, and the ÖBB should not worry, there are the 60 billion schillings and he will ensure that they are made available. It is good and nice to finally consult a rail infrastructure law in parliamentary terms, but please, the Minister cannot make promises without a decision in Parliament. I put this into the field of responsibility anonymity, and I stick to it. From all that I have said so far, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that the Federal Government – and this is also seen in the government agreement – does not seek to achieve a serious liberalisation of rail transport. A third point which the Government has done or, better said, has actually failed or has not prevented is that of the last salary and salary of the PDO staff. It is extremely high with an average of 2.8 percent, I would say once. In this sub-area, it is also clear that those responsible do not take any account of the general economy of the economy, of the attitude that is so to speak sold to the Austrian population as a necessity. On the one hand On the other hand, the Austrian citizens are supposed to be saved everywhere. In the budget, the lawn mower method is brutally driven over without anyone being able to defend themselves. But you like to keep it on the other side of the federal railways with the Floriani principle: Save it, but with the others! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot approve of this procedure, and it is also symptomatic of how much the government parties, in this case in particular the SPÖ, set up two standards in the case of unpopular measures. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Where it hurts, in its own area, where a constituency clientele is present – 55 000 or 60 000 ÖBB staff who are mostly assigned to the SPÖ election – the big exceptions happen – elsewhere not! Where the citizen is unable to defend himself in this country, it is overrun. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to beautify. I am, however, surprised that the EIA has agreed to this special scheme for the ÖBB staff in their salary accounts. But I assume that there is still a different, complementary agreement. Perhaps one has agreed, perhaps this was a junkim for any particularity in agricultural support or in financing the chamber system or in other areas. I fully recognise this junkim, Mr Kukacka, and you will not be able to tell me anything else. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: millions!]] A fourth area, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the sad issue of public services. They all know that the public service sector is not sufficiently and dubiously defined in the ÖBB Act. For this reason, we also have to deal with more extensive discussions every year, such as the regional transport sector is now being financed, what the countries are paying, what the federal government is doing, whether these are business deposits, whether they are cash benefits, and so on. So we have a huge grey zone in this area. We are talking about this, and there is a debate, but a Larifari debate, because, at the end of the day, something which is then packed in as an opinion is more or less adopted, without addressing the core of the matter, the subject matter. This is, of course, also a condition that should not be left in the ÖBB law. Federal Minister! You see yourself, you'll have to do quite enormous tasks in your megaressort. I hope that you will not be overwhelmed in dealing with these tasks, because I must say that this hope, which I have now expressed, is precisely because I believe that your predecessor has left you a lot of unresolved cases of problem. The only reason why I have been reported as a pro speaker today is that I do not want the PDO staff to regain – and that threatens – that service status which they had before the exclusion, namely the status of a federal servant. That is really the only reason why you can agree to this "repair" – not "Novelle", Mr. Kukacka – in the matter itself. That is why this is one of the few areas in which we agree with the government groups. In all other areas, there will still have to be a sustainable and intense discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4237	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If I may add to the last point: I have not begun this function in the expectation that there will be no more questions to be solved. It has also not been transferred to me with the accompanying remark that there are no more questions to be solved. On the contrary, I think that, of course, a company like the ÖBB will be faced with important issues at all times. This will not only relate to organizational and even not only to service issues, in particular if it succeeds, which obviously all project in principle, namely that this company operates independently on the market, but taking into account its social tasks, in the sense of those who are employed in this company but, of course, primarily within the meaning of the customers. If this company is to act in this way, it needs first of all the willingness to respond to the questions that the time asks, and there have been traffic policy issues, as you know, very big changes. But it also needs – and with this I come to a point that seems to me substantial – to be able to act the certainty that a distributed company, an independent company, I think, can expect. I have already met a number of cases and a number of arguments in these few days, where it is said: Yes, we know that is distributed, but they should not be allowed to do so and that they should not be allowed to do so, and they should not be able to agree independently, but agree on this. I see that – and I am saying that – a company of this size, and so to speak, with this closeness to the public sector, cannot stand out from the general public view. This must already be in some harmony. We will probably not be able to explain it to anyone else. But I think that a principle that we should not only be our own, but also keep ourselves, and perhaps, if danger threatens, a little stronger, is that this independence of the company also finds respect, not only if one can give any unpleasant stories, but also if decisions are made by the board of directors or by the corporate bodies as a whole, which are to be respected. Only in this way can exclusion make sense. The second point, which seems essential to me in this connection, is that this company comes to rest, and if I say so, I really do not mean being inactive, but to rest in the sense that the sum of all those who are there, no matter what the level of hierarchy, no matter what the status, gets the certainty that those who are de facto owners of this company, namely the state, gives them space for further development and not at any time, which is something which can be seen to be miserable. I believe that, in practical terms, the employees of the ÖBB have a right to recognise that, in a particular form, they have been involved in the changes of recent years, in a form that they have been involved in these changes, which have been very likely to take account of all that we eventually wanted from them. So there's no way to blame them for a lack of cooperation. However, I believe that they deserve one, namely a certain advance of confidence in the future, and not just the byword that we are, as it were, now after. This is not a call for economics, but it is a call for respect for those who have put up a lot of commitment in recent years, personally and vice-president for others to achieve these changes, a call for them to now also give them the necessary space and not to re-reciprocate immediately, as it were. This is not a free letter for abuses, it is not a free letter for misdevelopments, and it is not a free letter for passiveity at all, but it should, as has been said, be a proposal of confidence. The third point is that, in the political debate, the ÖBB – and I believe that this can be said in political order too – also deserves this kind of discussion. I say this quite consciously as someone who is a few days of transport minister, emphasizing this circumstance. If one listens to the contributions to the debate here, then one argument becomes clear again and again, namely that one only sees this subject from the perspective that a high number of PDO workers belong to the SPÖ. If this is held up by my group, it is an accusation to which you have to respond. It is to be respected that this is a matter of entrepreneurship. It is about the fate of the company, it is about transport policy issues, it is about the fate of those who are busy there. From the point of view of criticism, it cannot be a question of the high number of high-level political attitudes that the employees of this company have. This cannot be an objective argument, and that is not an objective argument either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that it is precisely the one that has repeatedly been conjured up – not wrongly conjured up – that it is necessary for the company to develop into economic independence from its political dependencies, to a very special extent, which does not always involve, so to speak, this political discrepancy. Last point: The ÖBB is certainly an essential, if not the key to resolving the transport issues of the future, both in terms of its infrastructure and in terms of its transport tasks. In parentheses, I would just like to say: If Mr Meischberger is suspected that a company of his own will be found to provide a staff member, then if we do not already have this, at least the EU should be assured that it will not make substantial funds available for it. This attitude, I know, is not supposed to be said by the government bank, but I am still doing it now – to think everyone is stupid, and then all of Europe, I think I am missing. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The ÖBB are now a transport policy key, a transport policy key for solving future issues. This goes from the well-known topics of the various transit routes to the general issues of the relationship between modes of transport. I believe that if we are talking here today about the ÖBB in particular, we should protect that area, especially from the inconspicuous polemics, which is and will remain our essential instrument, to answer these questions. At the end of the day, there is a sentence on the specific provision that is being debated here today. It appears again and again – perhaps too brightly perceived by me now – subserviently the argument: Well, who knows if that's gonna hold? . So I think that a provision that has been corrected in the form proposed by the Constitutional Court has a high chance of being recognised in accordance with constitutional law. I believe that there should also be a clear signal to the employees of the ÖBB that it is not a question of the fact that, before this provision, no one concerned their rights and, so to speak, the Constitution has now taken care of their rights, but it is possible to say, with fug and right, that before that provision there was a guarantee of the rights of the employees of the ÖBB in a materially equivalent form, but at the same time it has to be established and to respect this recognition of the VGH, of course, that the current version can also guarantee the necessary constitutional increase. And that's good. I would also like to thank the Committee for having been able to hold a very factual debate on this subject. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4351	Mr Trenk is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Your remaining speaking time is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4372	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Edler, you said the wonderful sentence in your speech: If a staff member behaves in some way unarmedly and at the ÖBB, for example, does not agree with the laws or the new novel, then he can protect himself by law. – You said that today. I would just like to draw attention to this: If he does, he certainly has no work left, because then he will probably be dismantled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With this novel, you will pull all ÖBB staff over the table, and we liberals will certainly not play in this drawing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If, in 1996 and 1997, the 70 000 to 73 000 pensioners are burdened with an increase in pension contributions, we think that this burden is too suddenly borne by the SPÖ and the ÖVP groups. You would certainly have had some years to think about this novel. I think that is the same thing as my colleague Rosenstingl said: a husk-fusch-party. The ÖBB staff will be pulled over the table. You decide here a novel, but certainly not with the liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister Ditz said in a radio interview that this measure led to a reduction of the charges for pensioners. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Stay in the inn!]] – Mr Parnigoni, you talk to me anyway. We'll hear what you're saying. Ladies and gentlemen! The increases in salary are not included, but only the biennials. Colleagues from the SPÖ! I think we cannot agree with this novel because we are still working for the small workers, especially for those workers who have to work at the ÖBB on the railways et cetera. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I would like to ask our new Federal Minister the question of how he stands on the Semmering base tunnel, which falls into the transport concept on and for itself. On the one hand, you say: Saving package, savings package, there we take the pensioners away a little, but we still build the monster project that costs between 10 and 15 billion schilling. The predecessor, Mr Klima, has not been able to present a package of funding here in Parliament so that we could have debated this funding. This monster project doesn't want anyone from the Lower Austrian side, that doesn't interest anyone at all. The SPÖ's announcement that 20 minutes are saved and faster in the cut-off or in Bruck, these 20 minutes, ladies and gentlemen, cost the taxpayer 10 to 15 billion Schilling. In the sense of the savings package, we liberals will certainly not do so, but try to prevent the construction of the Semmering base tunnel. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Scholten! I would ask you not to start your work as she has left your predecessor, Mr. Federal Minister for Climate. I would ask you to take a slightly stronger stand against the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel, because on the one hand, the pensioners are taken away by percentage, on the other hand, money is wasted at billions – and that is for a project that nobody wants.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4439	Mr Sigl. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trenk, now there is an amendment to the Federal Railway Act to the debate, but not the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blünegger: Because you don't trust yourselves anyway!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Kukacka! You have spoken here of superfluous railways that have been rationalized. I would just like to say to you that the Austrian Federal Railways have been saving 7 000 colleagues over the last three years, since 1993, in the last three years. Of course, the ÖBB confesses to reasonable rationalizations – if, for example, there are no more set-ups, you can't set up a parking machine if there are no more steam machines, you don't need a heater anymore – but there's no need for any more! For, ladies and gentlemen, we have transported with this reduced number of around 60 000 more passengers and the highest number of tonnages since the Austrian Federal Railways existed. – And that is also worth a thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Firlinger, who spoke about the various so-called privileges, as he said, I must say that the Austrian Federal Railways were and are the only ones that had a total wage sum in 1995 for the first time and once a total lower than in 1994. – And that also says a lot. As you mentioned, Mr Kukacka, that there are about 73 000 pensioners in the Austrian Federal Railways, I must say to you that this number of 73 000 is of course made up of retired officials, but 35 percent is also made up of widows, namely 26 000 widows. – You have to mention that. Finally, a word about all those railways, who are from 1st century onwards. In January 1995, the Commission re-entered the Commission's proposal. They will – as in no other area – be given rights and will now be treated in accordance with the General Social Security Act, a new saving model of working time will become effective for them, as is the case in no other operation of this scale. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This initiative, initiated by our group and supported by the coalition partner, is intended to ensure the continuation of the reforms in the Austrian Federal Railways. It is intended to be clarified by the clarification of § 21 as required in this application that there is a subsidiary-limited federal liability for a particular group of staff, namely for those group of servants who before the 1. ==References====External links==* Official website This damage or failure guarantee is intended to ensure that, in the event of a possible insolvency of the private company Österreichische Bundesbahnen, the federal government assumes liability. It would be up to 31. In March 1996, there was no amendment to the 1992 Federal Railway Act, and many successfully introduced reforms would have to be brought into effect at the ÖBB. Since the entry into force of the Federal Railway Act, numerous rationalisation steps have been taken. The change in service law has made significant progress in the organisational field. The successful reforms are already reflected in a more efficient organisation of the ÖBB. For example, it is possible to force part-time work. Today, it is necessary to vary with different working time models in order to ensure the company's operational efficiency. These promising measures would not be possible if the newly negotiated new service rights of the Austrian Federal Railways were to be declared void, because the Federal Service Law does not provide for such working time models. The company's associated increase in performance is a major step towards international competitiveness. For example, these changes also lead to an increase in the range of offers and thus an even more attractive Austrian Federal Railway. It benefits not only the company from the new service law, but also the consumers of the Austrian Federal Railways. Similarly, this increase in the supply of road transport can be offset, which in turn would mean a reduction in pollutants, noise pollution and energy costs. This led to a significant environmental burden. This secondary effect, based on the reform of the rights of service, benefits not only the railway user but also the entire population. It would also be worth mentioning that there is no legal protection for workers in the new service law. For example, a staff member of the Austrian Federal Railways can continue to be transferred to Austria at any time for operational reasons. This also certainly leads to an advantage over other private carriers which have not included this possibility in their service law. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to tell you that without the new service law, the Austrian Federal Railways would have serious structural disadvantages against competition. That is why I am looking for you, numerous of the amendments to the Federal Railway Act 1992 § 21 para. 1 to be accepted. This is in the sense of a forward-looking transport policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4516	I don't have a word message anymore. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? [[Rapporteur Abg. Seidinger: Thank you no!]] No, that's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. I shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 84 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to this draft in third reading may declare it by a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 3rd. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (6 of the Supplements): International Cocoa Convention 1993 and Appendices (66 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4554	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item: International Cocoa Convention 1993 and Appendices (66 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mr Oberhaidinger. I ask him to make the report. [[The gallery throws leaflets into the meeting room.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, please wait a second. What is it? – Please, perhaps the staff of the House could ensure that this is not continued. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for your report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4582	High house! I shall bring the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (6 of the Supplements): International Cocoa Convention 1993 and Appendices. The Economic and Social Committee adopted the Government's proposal at its meeting on 7 November. ==References====External links== As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council: The State Treaty: International Cocoa Convention 1993 and Appendices (6 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. Mr President. As there are speeches, I would like to continue the debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4614	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. Ladies and gentlemen! As everyone obviously already has his leaflet, we can continue the debate. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] For this debate, it was established that per group a speaker with a speaking time of 10 minutes and a second speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes is speaking. Mr Haigermoser spoke. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4650	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Some accompanying remarks to the International Cocoa Convention. Yesterday I was allowed to find out in a Vienna coffee house that the whole thing is called "Gaugau", but now good. As we have heard, the focus of these measures is on the preparation, evaluation and statistical measures. I do not hope that it will remain, but that this agreement will undoubtedly lead to some improvements for the countries of origin of this beer-shaped tree-fruit. Austria must accept this agreement as a result of its accession to the EU. We are thereby handing over sovereignty rights to the European Union. – However, this should not result in a plagiarism or a repetition of EU bananas in the EU's banana import regulations, which has led to lower prices for emerging countries, producer countries, and, on the other hand, to lower prices for Austrian consumers, up to a doubling of the price of bananas. This means that in this special field we must be very careful that the delegation of problems to the EU does not lead to disadvantages for the Austrian market. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, as the Wiener said, "Gaugau" is also popular food, since it is the main ingredient in chocolate, and we must therefore also look at things from the price side, namely that a proper, good price for these products from emerging emerging emerging emerging markets is the best development aid. We will therefore be careful to ensure that these development aid interests are respected for the developing countries. We believe that a solution, as has been said, to the banana import regime, leads to further work on monocultures. This European Union monocultural policy has already had a negative impact at various levels. That is why our representatives in Brussels, in particular Commissioner Fischler, are called on to look at the right, so that the problems of environmental protection are also included in the general considerations. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, admitting that this International Cocoa Agreement, to which Austria has not yet joined, has been able to shape the price situation evenly for at least the years in the past. In other words, if we look at the development on the London raw goods market – see also today's issue of the "New Zurich Newspaper" – it can be observed for months that a price that remains at about the same price can be determined on this London stock exchange, detto on the large stock exchange in New York. These measures will certainly help developing countries – and this will also be possible if there are proper monitoring periods. We therefore agree not only with this accession, but also with the view that appropriate monitoring of the countries of origin of the cocoa can certainly be achieved at appropriate prices. I also ask consumers to understand that it is not only always the deep price for a product that is decisive but also the quality that should be respected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4705	The next speaker was Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4726	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is true, Mr Haigermoser, that Austria is not joining the international cocoa agreement until it has become a member of the European Union. This is an agreement that regulates the imports and exports – i.e. production and consumption – of cocoa, and within this organization, both the cocoa-producing countries and the consuming countries have 1 000 votes each. We want to achieve a balanced relationship between cultivation and consumption, and in particular we want to support third world countries, which mainly grow cocoa, so that they can also get a fair price. However, my speech refers to an amendment which I would like to make here, because I have forgotten in the Committee, because of my guilt, which I must say, a provision which I would like to make and which must be decided here, namely: Request Mr Ingrid Tichy-Schreder, Dr Kurt Heindlund colleagues on the Government Template (6 of the Supplements): International Cocoa Convention 1993 and Annexes to the Committee's Report (66 of Supplements) The National Council wants to decide: In accordance with Article 49(l)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 49(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 B-VG, the texts of this Convention in French, Spanish, Russian, Arabic and Chinese are announced by the fact that they are available for public inspection at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs during the official hours. The aim of this proposal is to save our paper and to make the publication in the other languages simply available in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask the House's colleagues to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4786	Ladies and gentlemen, please present the original amendment here in the future, so that I can check whether this is also the request that has been read. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: She's not in Parliament for so long!]] [[An official shall submit the application to President Dr. Neisser.]] Thank you. The proposal – I see it now – is sufficiently supported. He is involved in the negotiations. Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Your speaking time is up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4824	Mr President. High house! Another international agreement such as the coffee agreement or, for example, the GATT trade agreement – I just wonder: Has it been or will it improve the situation of cocoa farmers, the coffee farmers in any way? If this agreement prevents land flight, will the slums in the cities become smaller? Is there fair prices for producers, for farmers – a price that will cover their costs and make them profit so that they can feed their families? There is so far no agreement for coffee, which includes fair prices for producers, nor an agreement that would guarantee fair prices, for example, for cereals. The coffee farmers in Brazil, in order to survive, already deviate in the cultivation of plants from which drugs are then produced, or they migrate and increase the slums in the major cities by their search for work. From Africa, most of the cocoa demand goes to the whole world and to Africa and amounts flow to billions of development aid. Just yesterday, the UN launched an aid programme for Africa of 285 billion schilling – and yet, unlike most regions of the world, African incomes have fallen considerably in recent years. In Africa, 220 million people live below the absolute poverty line – 220 million of 758 million people! – but the billions of aid from the First World to Africa is partly wasted and spent on useless projects. International agreements – especially GATT – have a devastating impact on all farmers' families around the world. Without any difference, the American farmers, if they are in debt – the highest suicide rates of all professional groups in America, show – the European farmers – in Europe is an indescribable scale – are hit by the farmers in Latin America, in Africa and in Asia. At a production price of 3 to 5 s per kilo of coffee – it is sold in Austria by 130 to 150 s; at cocoa it is similar – or at a price of 2.60 s for cereals, while 1 kilo of bread costs 23 s, no farmer can survive anymore. Is that the market economy you mean?: Coffee, cocoa and grain prices are negotiated by a handful of powerful people behind closed and padded doors. The free market economy is only faked! In reality, it is only annihilated. Not for nothing, Karl Marx said the following to the free market economy – listen carefully; this is especially interesting for the ÖVP – I quote literally –: "You're considering total free trade. I am in favour of total free trade, because this will surely eliminate the bourgeois element." The free market economy will eliminate the peasantry and the bourgeois element worldwide. And you from the ÖVP are fast on the road!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4873	The last speaker to speak has been Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Your speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4898	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We agree with this agreement, because we see it as an opportunity, in particular, to enable imports into Europe to be made, in which cocoa production is a substantial part of its economy. But, I would ask you to consider this and to take it into account now, the Commission of the European Union is currently working on a directive that is contrary to this agreement. It provides that the UK, Ireland and Denmark should be allowed to replace cocoa butter with vegetable oils as well as chocolate. Should this directive actually enter into force, not only would the purity of the chocolate industry be sacrificed, but it would also have a pretty devastating effect on those countries that are benefiting from this production. This would result in a decrease in cocoa production or in a fall in cocoa beet or storage. This would mean an additional price pressure due to reduced demand. Of course, à la longue, if the European Union were to put in place such a measure, other States, non-European countries, such as the United States, would go there in order to re-establish and maintain the conditions of competition. Clearly, such a presentation by the European Commission would not only be contrary to this cocoa agreement provided for in Article 32 that imports should, in particular, make every effort to increase the demand for cocoa, but also to the coherence required in the European Union. In other words, such a measure would no longer be in line with a number of policies. It would be contrary, in particular, to the development policy, which is set out in the Maastricht Treaty in itself. Interestingly, in order to show another example of these contradictions, the World Bank in the late 1980s supported precisely those projects through which cocoa production is extended in the context of a structural adjustment programme. This too would now be questioned. That means it's important to be vigilant right now. If we join this cocoa agreement, we must also take care of what is being prepared in this regard in the European Union. If there is indeed a presentation of the EU Commission, I would like to appeal to you now, in joint deliberations in the main committee, to prevent it from going contrary to the cocoa agreement we are deciding on today and leading it ad absurdly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e4943	There is no more word message. I therefore conclude the debate. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Abg. Ing. Madethaner enters the meeting room in haste.]] Mr President, we are also waiting for you. We shall first vote on the Committee's request to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and its Annexes in 6 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. [[Two Members are in one place at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this comes from not being here in time: Now they're both in one place. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But there are still some places free in this house. Maybe you can spread. Furthermore, it is requested, in accordance with Article 49(1). 2 The Federal Constitutional Act, together with its annexes in French, Spanish, Russian, Arabic and Chinese, provides for these texts to be published at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs for public consultation during the hours of office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. . I can also see the unanimous adoption in this request. 4. Point Report by the Economic and Social Committee on Amendment No 7/A by Mr Arnold Grabner and Mr Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Mountain Law 1975 (68 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 30/A (E) by Mr Rudolf Anschober and Mr Comrades on the reform of mountain law (69 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5040	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. These are reports by the Economic Committee on Amendments Nos 7/A by Mr Grabner and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Mountain Law (68 of Supplements), and 30/A (E) by Mr Anschober and Mr Comrades on Mountain Law Reform (69 of Supplements). The rapporteur on both points is Mr Dietachmayr. Deputies! I would ask you to give both reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5065	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall first report to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 7/A by Mr Grabner and Mr Comrades on a federal law amending the 1975 Mountain Law. In order to enable communities to be more involved in the granting of procurement permits, they should be granted the status of a formal party in their own matters of action in the field of enforcement. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. ==References====External links== The Members of Parliament, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Comrades, tabled an amendment which contained a formal corrective position. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn applied to set up a subcommittee 3:3:2:1:1, which did not receive a majority. In addition, MEPs brought Dipl.-Ing. Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Comrades tabled three motions for resolutions. At the time of the vote, the amendment was adopted by a majority vote in favour of Amendment No 7/A. The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades did not agree with the majority of the committee. As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the written committee report. I shall also refer to the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal [30/A(E)] by Mr Anschober, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on mountain law reform. The members of the European Parliament, Mr Anschober, Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades, took part in the debate on 30 October. In January 1996, the current motion for a resolution was submitted to the National Council. The Economic and Social Committee adopted the motion for a resolution at its meeting on 7. ==References====External links== At the time of the vote, the motion for a resolution in motion for a resolution was not approved by the majority of the Committee. As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council should take note of the present report. Mr President. I would ask you to hold the debate on this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5138	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. For this debate, a limit of the speaking time to three "Vienna hours" was agreed, so that the following general speeches were made: SPÖ 45 minutes, ÖVP 42 minutes, Free 39 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 27 minutes. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5165	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Not quite overcrowded! Ladies and gentlemen! It can be seen that, although the matter of mountain law is of great economic importance, particularly in the ranks of socialists, there is no special interest in it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I hope that I can make some comments on this, which are also interesting to you. In recent months there has been an increased public debate on mining in Austria, in particular the Berggesetz and its novelties in 1990 are the subject of public discussions. Many times the ground of reality is left and addressed with polemics the issues of mining. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the mining industry, the classical mining industry, has lost its importance, it is still extremely important for the people. Some examples of this: It is currently operating in 451 establishments with 11 500 employees. The value added of the Austrian mining plants is about 30 to 40 billion Schilling. 52 million tonnes of solid mineral raw materials are mined and transported, and approximately 1.1 million tonnes Oil is being promoted in Austria. Of course, these 52 million tonnes also have to be transported, which is about 2.1 million trucks. The pollutant emissions cause the Austrian environment to be taxed. Of course, the high number of imports of mineral raw materials also has a corresponding burden on the trade balance. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a matter of discussing mountain law, of no more and no less than the use of Austrian resources and of Austrian raw materials policy. Important guiding principles are contained in the National Environmental Plan. However, these are essentially their implementation. It must be in the general interest, however, that resources available in Austria should be supplied in order, sustainable and by reference to the highest environmental standards of their economic determination. In order to implement this reasonable raw material policy, in my opinion, federal competence, especially in technical and technical terms, is essential and therefore sustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mining is also an image of the respective society. During the period of reconstruction, the extraction of raw materials was of much different importance than today. Today – and rightly so – environmental relevance is equal with economic aspects. This is also the cause of the fact that the Berggesetz will always have to be discussed with its associated regulations and that it will be necessary to adapt to social and economic requirements. Hand-made economic interests of large companies must be carefully considered against the interests of the many small entrepreneurs, who, due to their proximity to the demand providers – the construction sites – make a significant contribution to the Austrian economy. The transport problems must also be taken into account. According to ÖBB's communications, there is a lack of capacity to ensure that a substantial part of the transport of raw materials by road is carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! If access to mass raw materials is deteriorated, for example by extending the duration of the procedure or by increasing the red tape, then the raw material imports will increase significantly, and as a result, the current account will also deteriorate. Such a statement is also contained in the "National Environmental Plan". I quote from it – it is about mass raw materials –: "In contrast to the other mineral raw materials, however, shortage of the mass raw materials is much more likely to be expected through the restriction of access than by the exhaustion of natural stocks. Where a mass raw material occurrence is once installed directly or around it, subsequent use of raw materials is made impossible due to the lower value and the immissions caused by mining." This note in the Environment Plan shows the tension between the interests of citizens, the economy and the national interest. This makes mountain law – in conjunction with environmental law – so complicated. For these reasons, we are convinced that we will need a general modern version of mountain law and associated regulations. The materials of environmental law, commercial law and mountain law must be coordinated in an objective manner. This applies in particular to the terms used. It is indeed unbearable that in commercial law a concept of plantation other than in mountain law is assumed and that in commercial law the processing of the procedures is completely different and a different instance than in mountain law is carried out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that these legal instruments must be consistently coordinated and harmonised. This cannot be done with a single request. It has already been built on mountain law for some time, which I personally do not agree with. The regulation in Amendment No 7/A, which is to be discussed here, according to which the municipalities and thus the mayors are to be granted a formal party position, certainly represents only a small measure. This may improve citizens' participation or access to justice. But if I think of the problems arising, for example, in the context of the implementation of the construction regulations, by the fact that the mayors are also a construction authority and that they are a much more complex and economically important matter, I do not agree with this step if it is carried out alone as a reconstruction or reconstruction of the existing mountain law without general reform. In addition, I believe that the mayors or the authorities are under very great pressure. I cannot imagine that the communities can solve the problems of mining and the raw materials industry without a complete reform. We shall therefore reject this request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now a few words on the request 30/A of the Greens. This proposal contains approaches that we can fully support: for example, the harmonisation of the concept of the plant and the approach to the transport of environmental standards. That is what we agree with. But the other approaches are wrong. For example, a location requirement is required. In mining, it is impossible to apply these because the mining is just site bound and one cannot simply transfer a deposit from one place to another. I also believe that most of the claims contained in this request have already been made. That is why I can only describe this request as unfermented and will also reject it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mountain law and all the materials associated with it are very complex and of great economic importance. Our amendments to the Committee have been rejected in the usual way, I would like to say. In cooperation with experts from the economy and administration, we are working on a fundamental reform of mountain law, so that modern, practical and environmentally sound mountain law can be created. This work will still take some time because of the complexity of matter, but we will submit the relevant proposals to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5269	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5290	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Mountain Law has been in discussion for seven years, has often been innovative and has given rise to disagreements, particularly in the last five years. The novel of 1990 was and is the subject of public and political criticism. The main criticism was the extension of Section 5 of the Berggesetz by the basic mineral raw materials – quartz, quartz and quarzan – as far as they are suitable for the production of cements. And thus the scope of the Berggesetz has been extended to the gravel and pebble mining and the party position of agrarians and communities has been severely restricted. Complaints from both local and local authorities were the result. Our group has repeatedly turned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs to step up the situation, and because of the Novelle Mountain Law in 1994 and because of our activity we have achieved some important changes – we, the Social Democratic Group, which seems to be very important to this issue. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who is "we"?]] Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has so far not taken up our proposal, namely to standardize the community's land use as a public interest within the meaning of the mountain law. The interests of those – and this could be concluded from it, Minister of State – who operate the scrapping of gravel were a little more important than the interests... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Sandler!]] How was Mr Haider? They're sanders? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: These were sanders!]] Sandler, you think that's what you're doing. The gravel barons will be pleased that they are called "sandlers". I don't have a problem. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you must be for the Habsburgs too!]] I'm not going to have any voters at the gravel barons, but maybe you'll have some if you call them "sandler." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] This is for your mind, Mr Haider. I am very grateful for your public prostitution and say what you think of people who work as entrepreneurs. You should know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: For you there is only one term for a word!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, today's proposal allows the communities to finally obtain a party position in the construction of gravel pits and gravel pits. I think this is an important step in the interests of the communities that need to be set up. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Schotterbarone!]] And I would like to say that, of course, this is only a step towards solving the biggest inadequacies and problems. Now some remarks on the fundamental problems of the mountain law. The Berggesetz (mountain law) is in the field of tension of different and conflicting interests – which my previous speaker quite correctly presented. On the one hand, there is mineral raw material degradation and mineral raw material protection, on the other hand there are the interests of the water industry, the interests of environmental protection, nature conservation, tourism, the recovery and the interests of spatial planning. The approval of a mining site under the Berggesetz depends exclusively on a point of view, namely the mining law. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, that's wrong!]] The lack of consideration of other interests, Mrs Fekter, but also of general interest, is the real reason for the conflicts that occur permanently in this regard. However, I should like to say that very clearly here, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be feared that these unsolved conflicts generally reduce the acceptance of mineral raw materials and thus endanger the protection of mineral raw materials. My previous speaker pointed out that there are at least 11 000 employees in this area. That is why this is an issue that must be addressed with a certain degree of seriousness. We Socialists are committed to safeguarding mining, we are in principle committed to reducing mineral raw materials – but we must discuss the question of balance of interests and therefore the issues of neighbourhood and party rights and offer them a wide range of opportunities. We insist on the inclusion of mountain laws in the trade regulations in order to ensure respect for spatial planning and a balance of interests. It is not to be seen why, depending on the circumstances, the mountain authority or the commercial authority is currently responsible for the reduction of gravel. This is a situation that leads to conflict. And the abolition of these parallelities gave rise to rationalization, taking a step towards administrative simplification, giving rise to legal certainty. [[Call:Legal security above all]] And that is also something agreed in the Coalition Agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the study "Harmonisation Model", which has been developed on this issue. This study deals with mineral raw material prevention and mountain law. It contains 1 000 pages, and I assume that my previous speaker has also referred to this study. In order to improve the situation, this study recommends that, in the field of mineral supply safety, the mass raw materials included under the Berggesetz-Novelle 1990 under the Berggesetz (mountain law) should again be returned to the industrial regime. That means that this study actually confirms our considerations, and all the other variants that show this study point to a further change in the legal matter. It is also true that the coalition has agreed to reorganise plant law in general, that in the next two years we will have to create, in general, simplified, secure provisions with this matter for the future, and on this occasion we should also deal with the problem of mass reduction in the mineral sector with mountain law accordingly. High house! I would like to ask the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs - we can assure him of our support - to draw up a proposal in this direction, to draw up in this proposal the reflections of the harmonisation study, and to come to a solution that will address this conflict between neighbouring communities, communities and those who will also secure jobs in the field of mineral management and mineral raw material mining in the sense of the Austrian economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5432	Mr Anschober is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5453	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear son of a bitch! At the beginning of this topic, I would like an article on mountain law, i.e. on our topic today, from the "South German newspaper" of 6. citation of March this year. [[Abg. Auer: Austria!]] Listen carefully, Mr Auer, then you will know what this has to do with Austria. [[Abg. Aumayr: Unique in Austria! There's nowhere else!]] You can exchange very old and long outdated concepts with the name Austria, colleague Auer, then you may see what this has to do with our current topic in Austria. The title of this article is "Drained as a Swiss Cheese". March 1996 in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung": It smells like rebellion and insurrection, six years after the end of the SED dictatorship, fiery speeches were again made in East German countries. Of course, this is not – as one could assume – about the main problem number one, which remains high unemployment or about the new wastewater charges, no: Instead, the cause of the excitement is a piece of the GDR heritage, the mountain right, which is now transferred to the present time. A little further down, this article says: For a special feature of the East German mountain right is the following: Unlike in West Germany and throughout Western Europe, coal and valuable ore are not only subject to the Federal Mountain Act, but also to fewer raw materials, such as sand and gravel. While these land resources in the West are fully subject to the ownership of the owner, they have little to say under mountain law. The extraction of mountain-free raw materials is usually given priority over other public interests. Environmental, nature, water, Immission Protection and also municipal planning law must withdraw. This DDR-typical regime, Mr Auer, was incorporated into the basic treaty in order not to delay the expected economic upturn by lengthy approval procedures and restitution requests from old-owners. – The mountain right east as an annex to the GDR relations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The last western European country – except Austria – which has such a mountain right, which is responsible for mass raw materials, was until recently the GDR. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! You don't know each other! You don't know the difference between mountain-free and land-based minerals!]] Mrs Fekter! Ten days ago, under the leadership of the CDU/CSU Group, a request was submitted in the German Bundestag, supported by SPD, FDP and Greens – only the PDS did not agree – that this regulation should be democratised, that mass raw materials should be removed from mountain law, that Alt-DDR ratios should be democratised. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true! Mountain-free minerals are supposed to be their own!]] Mrs Fekter! It is difficult to understand for an upper lobbyist in the gravel industry what these undemocratic conditions, which have only met us more in the GDR regime, mean here and today. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I'm sorry you don't know about the mountain law!]] I understand very well that you cannot accept this. But we have had a very similar situation in Austria since 1990; Mr Parnigoni has already done this. Since 1990, the bulk raw materials have also been covered by mountain law, a mountain law that should ensure particularly protective, rare raw materials. This is quite understandable from the basic approach. But the fact that a mass raw material such as gravel and gravel is also covered by this rule is an arbitrary measure and is quite simply a special right for gravel barons and gravel baronesses, Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I'm a "sandler" and not a baron!]] I do not want to hear any self-thinkings from you now, that is far from me, and I will not take that into my mouth, I remain with the gravel baroness, and I remain with the special rights for such gravel baroness and gravel baronesses, which have actually lost nothing in a country like Austria, a country I have always believed that there is an enlightened democracy, such as in West Germany, where such displeasure has not lost anything for decades, such as in Eastern Germany, where these Old DDR and Stasi laws have been repealedd, where such a stone-time undemocratic law has not lost anything. – But I obviously cheated. There is a lobby in this country that has the coalition partner on the gangband, which has its own party on the gangband, which the federal states have on the gangband, thereby asserting special rights for their own clientele. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The winner of the debates, the parliamentary debates, the many attempts to get rid of these special rights since 1990 and the same right to achieve the same environmental conditions, the same laws in all environmentally relevant procedures, the winner who has turned this all down is among us today, and I must say that I can only congratulate her: For six years, it has dominated a parliamentary assembly, and for six years it has understood how to prevent such regulations, which is a remarkable achievement – a remarkable achievement, but at the expense of hundreds of citizens’ initiatives affected, hundreds of communities protesting, from all the federal states that protest. And that should make you think too. Mrs Fekter! I would now like to get away from these rather abstract statements at the beginning and deal directly with you. You will certainly know the resolutions of the Upper Austrian Land Day and the letters written to you by the Upper Austrian head of state on behalf of the Upper Austrian Landtag. You'll have them in the map. You know the appeal that you should allow for an overall disposal and a comprehensive reform of the competence of this mountain law for mass raw materials here. – An internal appeal to you. You will certainly have the letter with you, he is from 1993. He'll still be quoted by other speakers here. And I must say, Mrs Fekter, that you do not fulfil this request to him who has put you into the function of a State Secretary, the former country father of Upper Austria, and that shows who you are actually obliged to do so. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have strongly protested against this regulation since 1990. There have been proposals from the Greens since 1990, in the direction of the fact that mass raw materials are no longer covered by mountain law. Since 1990, we have had many alliance partners, there is the ÖGNU Umweltddddachverband with now more than a hundred citizens' initiatives, which have joined forces in a platform against the Berggesetz – loud victims of the Scottish Willy Office in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have with us Mr. University Professor DDr. Meier, who is vehement against it, said: With an informed democracy, such a legal substance is incompatible. We have a wealth of expert opinions, and there are here the statements of Heinz Peter Rihl, who will certainly also know you, who says: The Novelle mountain law does not even find a cover in the mountain world, nor does it seem to be unconstitutional in the light of the principle of equal rights. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have been working for two and a half years on the study "Harmonization Model" of the Institute of Geology; twelve scientists have cooperated, Dr. Letouzé has been their coordinator. It was also prepared on behalf of eight federal states, the Ministry of the Environment and the Federal Chancellery. This study has been conducted since 28. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and the rapporteur for his excellent report. I really can't understand that! If you read only the summary of the project "Harmonisation Model", this two and a half years-long study on behalf of the eight federal states, on behalf of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Ministry of Environment, then you must see that this is incompatible with today's regulation, which I fear will be decided. I quote the summary of this study: "The legal opinion qualifies the inclusion of the mass raw materials under § 5 of the Berggesetz as non-competence and states an insufficient respect for the consideration given by the mountain legislator." That's the key! For gravel pits, for a mass raw material, the mining authority cannot be responsible and cannot apply the same rules as for actually protected rare raw materials. That is why we need to learn to differentiate – including all concerned mayors in the municipalities. Mr Auer, for example, knows this for the good of his region with regard to the projects there. We must make it clear that we need to differentiate and that instead of this placebo proposal, which we have today, we need an overall reform. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is a placebo proposal that aims to calm down communities and countries and the citizens' initiatives concerned. All those with whom I have so far talked about this – and these were dozens of mayors, some representatives of the country, for example Upper Austria, – are appalled at the fact that they do not comply with their resolution. For example, the resolution of the Upper Austrian Land Day, if I think properly, has been adopted unanimously. It is appalled that the demands of all the other Länder and, above all, the Letouzé study are not being met. I have talked to all those concerned from the Umweltdachverband who coordinate the platform against mountain law and are active in the public sector. And no one understands why you create complete facts in a Horuck action at the beginning of a legislative period. The SPÖ tells me – I understand Mr Parnigoni: This is not the conclusion, it is just a further step, and further steps will be taken. More is not possible within coalition! – But let us be honest: Anyone who looks at how long the Subcommittee has spent in the previous legislative period, for reasons that Mr Parnigoni and I know very well... [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're in court!]] That's right! The reasons were also discussed in court with Parnigoni. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're in court, not me!]] Anyone who knows the processes knows that this is the attempt to have a total reform of the right to the mountain with the aid of a purely placebo rule in the dead end. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot agree to this sham innovation because it is by far not an adequate response of the legislator to the conflicts of interest in the Austrian gravel reduction and is a pure placebo. The countries and the municipalities will not be placed in the legal position in which they found themselves in front of the Novel Mountain Law in 1990. And I have to say to the representatives of the party who repeatedly speaks of federalism: It is precisely you who should, together with us, try to restore the same legal relationship for the countries and communities that were given before the novelle in 1990. That must be our goal! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the final effect, it is indifferent how we achieve this goal. – But they do exactly the opposite. I can still recall – Mr Doppelmüller is right here – the broadcasts of the colleague Doppelmüller, which I found to be good for all contents that were absolutely correct and that we had to move back into a legal area, as he was before 1990, before the great revision of the mountain law. – There was a similar broadcast by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Grabner. Some other politicians have formulated this in the same way in the public. But what is happening today? For example, I sent a questionnaire to all members of the National Council before the last national elections in cooperation with the environmental organisations. The answers that came were very clear. Almost everyone meant: Of course, we have to take out the mass raw materials gravel and gravel from the mountain law as a whole. I only quote colleagues from the SPÖ, who formulated the answers for the Lower Austrian SPÖ. On the question: Should the gravel reduction generally be removed from the provisions of the mountain law?, he says: Yes, he's supposed to be removed. On the question: Will you use yourself in the next legislative period in the event of a re-election for a general removal of the mountain law and for the solution of the protection of particularly rare raw materials as part of the commercial right?, he says: Yeah, I'll bet. On the question: Will you be committed to a revision in this sense in the first six to ten months of the coming legislative period?, he says: Yes. Today, however, the SPÖ, on the gangband of the ÖVP lobby, agrees with a proposal for innovation, which has nothing to do with these positive promises. Because this is a total placebo evolution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I don't know how you're doing. But that's not my personal problem either. In this case, a lobby representative has only one part of a particular economic sector – I know representatives of the gravel industry who are completely opposed to the opinion, Mrs Fekter! – enforced, the party's own, and the coalition partner, as it were, still took with them in the handbag. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Hundreds of citizens' initiatives and thousands of people affected will not be able to do so! We will inform each and every one of you about the spectacle you offer here and that you do not follow your promises and announcements when a lobby representative gets up and says: Hurra, trara, this is a coalition question! I can't do that! I want this! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you're not in the coalition! You don't know how it's happening there!]] As it happens in the coalition, I can well imagine the statements made by Mr Parnigoni, Mr Doppelmüller and Mr Grabner just a few weeks ago on what you decide to do here today. I can imagine very well how this happens in your coalition: Obviously there is an exchange of views in many areas, a coalition gangband, which is not about scientific solutions, but only about the fact that a lobby interest prevails. There were many representatives of the gravel industry who said: We want to see the end of this wild-west conduct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We want to see agreements and negotiations in which the citizens are involved, where there is no polarization between citizens and a part of the gravel industry. That must also be the concern of this sector as a whole. The representatives of the gravel industry I spoke to – Mrs Fekter, I do not know if you are talking to them at all! –, don't understand your actions at all. They say that this causes a serious damage to this industry, and this is done in the end-effect of reputation murder in this industry. Because they are present as the eco-deactors of the nation. - And that's not true! For no one argues that we need gravel and concrete. The questions are as follows: What rights of participation do I give to the affected citizen? How did I put him in the trial? Can I answer that there are special rights for certain industries and for certain people? Or do I create the same environmental law for all? – This should be the crucial debate here, but you are doing quite the opposite here. I have read to you the article, which is not even ten days old, at the beginning of my speech, namely that until recently, except in Austria, there was only such a regulation in a single country in Western Europe, namely in the former GDR. – I am very surprised that the ÖVP can live here under conditions such as they ruled in the former GDR! But obviously, when it comes to the implementation of your own interests, every means is right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5624	Mr Auer has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5645	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are only a few laws that intervene as massively in the community autonomy as this mountain law. It is therefore to be welcomed this small step that is being taken today. It is a small step in the right direction, and I am glad that I was able to help a little. Today's request has already been submitted last year. It is therefore important to discuss a little more objectively than Mr Anschober has just done in his remarks. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone once said: In the communities, democracy is still working, and this operation is based on three pillars: co-determination, co-decision and co-responsibilities. – In this case, they are land-based plans and development concepts, which are very often laborious and in lengthy negotiations, with a lot of commitment from local politicians to the creation of guidelines and future plans. Decisions as to whether a community declares itself as a tourism community or as a residential community are suddenly meaningless by the now existing mountain law. The appropriate classification in residential areas, recreation areas or special assignments is made up of decisions by the mining authority. The municipality receives a letter from the competent Berghuppenschaft – in Upper Austria, referring to § 15 para. 11 of the Oberösterreichische Raumordnungsgesetz – that this or that area to which the decision of this authority refers must be identified as such in the future in the land-dwelling plan, regardless of what the local representative has previously developed in cooperation with its parish citizens. This feels the community citizens, local politicians and mayors as a plantation and as a mockery, because a community cannot take a legal decision against such a decision. The local citizen used to like this. It's not like this anymore, and I'm adding: Thank God no more! In the end, it has not helped anyone to maintain this law, neither the gravel mining company nor the community, even the parish citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that this mountain law has a certain protection function on many issues of the degradation of land resources. There is a safeguard with regard to the degradation of minerals and certain land resources. But that gravel and gravel were, as it were, ashamedly included in this mountain law in the last novel, is not the last conclusion of wisdom. I claim that this measure is more than excessive. However, I do not think, Mr Anschober, that the state before 1990 is to be restored, namely that gravel and pebble mining must be dealt with in accordance with commercial law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under commercial law, the dedication of a community is not crucial. According to commercial law, a municipality would not have a party position. The modified version to be decided on today is all the more preferable to me than to say today: We made a mistake at the time and assigned the masse raw material gravel to the right of the mountain, now we take it out again and restore the former state. For then we would have to say: We have nothing to talk about under commercial law again! - That would be the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore welcome the commitment made by Mr Ditz in the Committee that a comprehensive innovation of mountain rights should be considered, taking all the points into account and going through the disputed questions of a more careful review than did Mr Schöggl, who spoke of these opportunities of access, while his colleague Aumayr will then come out safely and will argue about this again, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] I would also like to read to you the statement of the Council of State of Achatz on the occasion of the resolution in Upper Austria. That would be possible. [[Abg. Aumayr: Read it before!]] Mr Anschober. This resolution was unanimously adopted in 1995 in the Landtag, when the head of state Dr. Ratzenböck was already out of service. You should know that if you could not make a mockery in the direction of Mr Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll hold on to this. That law, which in the future has to regulate these measures, should not be an absolute anti-prevention law, but a law that secures the participation of those responsible in the communities and the citizens concerned, which is really necessary. For it cannot be that in a community which defines itself as a recreation and tourism community, then, because someone fits into the cram, gravel or limestone is mined, without the people concerned being able to speak and agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said at the beginning: This is a very small step in the right direction – but not the solution to the problem. I would therefore ask the Federal Minister that, as he has assured the Committee, he should also carry out extensive innovation and decision-making in this problematic matter.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5701	Mrs Aumayr has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5722	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! By holding fast to this disgusting law, one has really performed a bear service to the gravel farms. Because the name "mountain team" is already very negative in the population, even though the mountain team often does positive things. I believe that it is for this reason alone that we must address a change in this law. Mr Auer! They speak of a small step in the right direction. . I looked at the minutes of 1990 when this new mountain law was passed. Mr Resch said at the time: It is not optimal, but a first step in the right direction. And Dr. Frizberg said: It is not quite optimal, but it is a first step in the right direction. – I ask you: Who prevents you from finally marching and not always taking small steps? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We are perfectly compliant: We want a proper law that takes into account the rights of citizens and, of course, the rights and legitimate concerns of the economy. What's happening there is really just more embarrassing. The Freedom Party has already voted against these mountain laws in 1990, out of ecological and democratic considerations. Since 1990, this mountain law novel has now been practised: Once something is changed, something will be changed there once, but nothing will happen at all! I remember a variety of petitions from SPÖ delegates. SPÖ members of the National Council bring petitions into the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, but if a request from the opposition is made in Parliament, which contains exactly the same amendments, the same SPÖ Members who have submitted the petition vote against! Or: In the Upper Austrian Landtag, a resolution on the new Mountain Law was unanimously adopted – unanimously! I am sure that the content of the resolution will not be taken into account in this law today. But the SPÖ is quite easy there anyway, for: The SPÖ in Upper Austria is voting in favour of a construction stop in Lambach during the Land Day, but if the same legislative proposal is to be adopted in the National Council, SPÖ members are voting against it; some remain in the hall, but some of the Upper Austrian Members are fleeing. This mountain law novel has only come under the pressure of the coalition force and under the pressure of the gravel lobby. It is as Mr Anschober said: This mountain law is identical to a regulation in the Ex-DDR. In Germany, however, this old load was disposed of a few days ago. In Austria, however, one will today cement this unconstitutional state with a revision. Austria's Berggesetz is therefore unique in the European Union for the East German special scheme. The destruction of gravel is therefore not subject to mountain law in Europe except for us. This law is primarily concerned with the existence of an authority which has survived in the current form. – This mountain law novel has given the authorities instruments that have really become a killer for citizens’ rights and for nature. As an example, I only mention the wet excavators. One of the most important livelihoods for mankind is the water. Worldwide, an imminent shortage of water is already being warned. Our drinking water reserves are only sufficient until 2010. – You have to imagine what that means. [[Call the ÖVP:Where? Where?]] All the newspapers are full of it. Until 2010, the water reserves are secured worldwide. Read the papers! [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: In Africa!]] – Not only in Africa, but also in Europe! Just look at Spain or Portugal! – I can imagine that you are not disturbed, Mr Maitz, when people in Africa are thirsty; this does not fit into your ideology. I really have to say that. Wars about the water have already been mentioned. Environmental refugees will follow the economic refugees, Mr Maitz! Thirst is more angry than hunger. But instead of doing everything to protect our water, there are two government parties at work here, who, without regard to the coming generations, only to maximize the profits of a few fewer companies, let holes dig into the earth, exploit the gravel, and leave the open groundwater to the pollutant entry. The argument "workplace" is heard again and again in this context. But despite the robbery, we have 300,000 unemployed in Austria. Our generation – and you have to imagine that! – has consumed and depleted more soil resources that need millions of years until they are created than all other generations before. I find this really irresponsible, especially to the coming generations! The aim must be a completely new law. Finally, this sluggishing of a law that is unique in Europe, which is uniquely bad!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5784	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5805	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning a clarification: The novelle 1990 – especially in this particular area of § 5 with the involvement of the gravel – was basically a escape from the trade order. It was therefore an escape from the trade order because the procedures under the trade regulations are complicated; the procedures under the trade regulation are long-term and financially non-calculated for applicant entrepreneurs. That was the reason why one meant, in the context of moving these mass raw materials into mountain law, a good way forward. This request is, of course, understandable, Mrs Fekter, but the fact is that the balance of interests has not been achieved at all. The mountain law, which I am adding to Mr Parnigoni's remarks, does not only know the communities as parties, but also does not know the locals as parties. This is the real advantage of mountain right from the point of view of some. However, we believe from the Liberal Forum that, of course, the health police, including the community's environmental and spatial measures, must be taken into account in these procedures. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal to give parties to the municipalities in these proceedings. That makes sense, however, ladies and gentlemen, must not conceal the fact that the rights of the people of the country remain on the road. The trailers have no way of articulate themselves in this procedure. This also points out, in fact, that the basic problem is much deeper. Ladies and gentlemen! The basic problem lies in the fact that mountain law in its mental structure, in its orientation, is not only a special industrial law and would therefore certainly fit in with the trade regulations, but is also an old legal matter which has legal protection deficits and also does not take environmental protection into account in any way, because other interests have been considered as priority. We therefore believe, in this context, that, contrary to the Greens, mountain law is neither partially nor in principle reformed in Austria, but abolished as a legal matter and included in the trade order. That's the right way. Our approach is not only one that is presented rhetorically, but it is already a request from the Liberal Forum in Parliament for a new form of trade regulation, which guarantees both the applicant companies who wish to carry out investments a reasonable time within which these applications need to be processed, as well as the neighbouring countries concerned the opportunity to articulate and preserve their interests. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It would be an opportunity to discuss this proposal, to also discuss the matter of mountain rights, and to come to terms with this problem on an objective and serious basis, which does not only take into account partial interests and, in particular, monetary interests. However, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be kept silent that we also need a uniform environmental plant law. There are recommendations to this House not only by the Environment Council, in which all the political groups in this House are represented, but also by individual responsible politicians, including the Federal Government, that this is useful. We have already been presented with a draft law on a uniform environmental plant law in a study by the Federal Ministry of the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be time to talk about a uniform environmental plant law at a later stage of a debate on the trade regulations including mountain law. Again: Member of the European Parliament Auer is right, ladies and gentlemen! The basic problem is unsolved, but we should not overlook: It is not only on mountain law and in concrete terms on section 5 of mountain law, which also includes the mass raw materials, but also on our fully-bureaucratic industrial order, which in this context also finally belongs liberalized and novelled. Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals are happy to be available for such a discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5869	Mr Grollitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5890	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! But a short attempt to catch up on the subject of this mountain law in a matter of fact and not to escape completely into the polemics. First of all, we must note that those two political groups which have put the matter into the house with their requests are shining away; perhaps the listeners are interested in it. These two have brought in mountain law, should discuss it and are lacking primarily. That was said in advance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Because an urgent...!]] It is a primitive argument that only for a few years, as Mr Parnigoni has said, has it been discussed for seven years. The Berggesetz was discussed at least since 1854 and was largely preserved in this form from the subsequent period of the revolutionary year 1848. What was captured in a modern terminology 100 years later, 1954, still breathes the spirit of the time. It is, of course, high time that, as Mr Aumayr has said, jumps and not just small steps are taken in the right direction. The novel that was rejected by the liberals in 1990 was probably meant in this direction of democracy, but was not taken into account accordingly. It is clear from the speeches of the time that the possibility of an immediate reform or a "new building of this House" of mountain law was seriously envisaged. The building, which is now being changed by "building" with this request for the approval of the municipalities, is, of course, not sufficient and not in the right direction modification. It is therefore not going in the right direction, because the administrative procedure will be delayed with the utmost certainty by this further detour to the municipalities. It is assumed by the experts that the procedures currently taking eight to twelve months will then be delayed to double or triple time. What will the novelle do? – I am quite sure that the need for gravel – here again and again, falsely, is used for gravel of the flat-rate term "Scotter", which is actually only a reference to the grain – will not go back from today to tomorrow or will not change significantly. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very right!]] Mrs Fekter! I'm sure you'll be right about this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure!]] This means that the need for this material and its turnover will naturally remain constant or even constantly increasing. If we now prevent or hinder the degradation in the country, we will promote the already quite large-scale import from the neighbouring Czech Republic and Hungary as well as from Austria's "Tourism" in the southern German region. This will certainly be an apprehension; that, in the sense of Mr Anschober, I dare to doubt that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So we assume from two positions: It has been sawed violently by the Greens since 1990 by this law – with this one does not keep behind the mountain, one wants the replacementless deletion. Well, that's the one side. I would like to doubt whether it is possible to achieve an ecologicalisation of the subject itself. The other side is the one we can read on the side of the ÖVP: It is significant what Mr. Vice-Chancellor said on 23 March. As Minister of Economic Affairs for the Novel Mountain Law of 1990 in May 1990: This is a major harmonisation of mountain law analogous provisions with the applicable industrial plant law. – He was very pleased and thought that small businesses were being encouraged, that local services were secure and that the Austrian mining industry was forecasting a good future with this novel. Now, on the part of the ÖVP, one goes with the well-known wave of democratization with one step. This step is not enough for us. We liberals believe that this building of a mining law is indeed to be redesigned, that one has to build a house with large windows, with more transparency, with a more flexible structure, but in any case with the greatest possible maintenance of a material competence. I would remind you that at my university, mining engineers are being trained to join a Jus study if they want to stay in the mountain authorities. A double study as a prerequisite warrants at least the presumption that this is a matter of very technical competence. We do not want over-bureaucratisation to be achieved primarily by over-democraticisation. I would ask you to follow the intention of the liberals and to support the joint development of a forward-looking law under ecological and democratic political conditions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5966	Mr Grabner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e5988	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to treat this novelle just as my friend Auer, from the point of view of the communities, from the point of view of the citizens of the communities. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, there is no political dispute at all, because in the communities all the political groups are represented, and they also represent the citizens of all parties. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Make the effort to climb an aircraft or a helicopter and start a small round flight. You will probably find yourself above the southern Lower Austria as on the moon: Crater on crater. The stone field, especially in my home district, is oversown. However, it is clear that in the rarest cases this is meteorite impact. Rather, it is gravel pits and similar mining areas that have grown out of the soil in recent years like Schwammerl. The municipalities have no influence in this respect and cannot object. By the revision of the mountain law in 1990, in which the federal competence for mass raw materials such as sand, gravel and the like was extended, the degradation is excavating, it took on enormous dimensions. To mention figures: In Lower Austria, for example, some 40 percent of the land area and 70 percent of all raw materials have been covered by the provisions of this law since that time. However, the most unbearable is the fact that, as we have already heard today, this has happened on land-based and spatial planning plans, i.e. almost without limitation. This was the fault of the 1990 novelle, which virtually deprived the municipalities and neighbouring parties. Since then, affected citizens have almost no opportunity to object to the often incomprehensible decisions of the highest mountain authority. That they are often, like a concerned mayor in the "Standard" of 11. February of this year noticed, smiling coldly over the affected communities, is another discussive story. In order for the wild growth of gravel pits to be actually made the garaus, as in the "Wiener Zeitung" of the 10th century. 2. In 1996 it was called for so that there could be no gravel reduction directly in a children's playground, as in the "Kronen Zeitung" of 27. 8. In 1995, we have now formulated the present legislative proposal. I can quote some newspaper excerpts – cross and across Austria –: Schotterdepletion in Eggendorf – the municipality is desperate. 1.9 million cubic meters will be cut to 22.8 hectares. "Kurier": Uprising against the mountain law, wild-growth, protests by mayors and environmental associations, insurrections against stotters; Spa Bad Fischau: Land uprising against federal schotterness, platform calls for rapid reform of the mountain law; The municipality of Straßhof is fighting for its right, head of the local authority, mayor, to fight party positions at the EU Court of Justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - Right. I should like to quote, dear friend Auer, a request from the members of the ÖVP of the State of Styria, in which they also demand the party status of the municipalities. ==References====External links== 8. In 1995 almost all leading politicians wrote a letter, with signature lists to which children have written: The windows must always stay! Too loud for our ears! No, thank you! Unfortunately, we can't play on our children's playground anymore! and so on. Mr. Mayor of Eggendorf, who is powerless, has turned to all citizens. I also have here the letter from the Klubobmann of the ÖVP, Franz Hiesl, from 1993, which, on behalf of the head of state, also calls for a number of changes to be made. I think it is important to say again and again that this is not a political one at all. – Mrs Colleague, if you look at your side, perhaps, but not on the other sides. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] In the last legislative period already introduced, but delayed by the new elections, an end will finally be made to the unsustainable state of circumcised civil rights. Formal party positions are granted to the municipalities and to the local authorities in those matters in which enforcement is in their own sphere of activity. As a result of their increased participation in the granting of profit participation, the demise is also eliminated. From now on, however, there should not be any stotter reduction without regard to the municipal order, no gravel pits and quarries should be allowed against the will of affected arrants, municipalities and land authorities. I think this is an absolutely necessary step – a first step! At the same time, however, I am aware that it cannot be the first and last one in relation to the mountain law. In view of the fact that too many things remain to be discussed, we must quickly consider a general, fundamental, comprehensive reform of the mountain law in this period. Among other things, the integration of the mountain law into the trade order and thus the mountain authority into the trade order could be sought. With regard to the reform, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for it, Mr Ditz has already announced that all clubs should pass on their proposals; he will then try to bring them in. We've got to find ourselves. I've got a paper here that says: The formal party position of the municipalities in the investigation and reduction plan procedure or in the procurement procedure may extend the procedure by one to two years. However, prevention of a project by the community would not be possible in fact. – It is therefore further reduced to the children’s playground, to the municipal center. – I have just quoted information from the Austrian working group for sand, gravel and gravel. The objective must be to maintain the quality of living and living in our beautiful, ecologically still exemplary country. In order not to have a gravel pit in front of each house in the future, I ask you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6104	Mr Wenitsch is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6125	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! I personally reject this government template because it does not give the citizens any decisive rights or benefits. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not a government template!]] That's a government proposal! I know Mr Ditz from letters – he has already given me some personally – and that is why I know that this is a government template. My reigns! We need to change the mountain law so that in the future the citizens of our country also have rights to do so. It can't be the way it is today: that a mountain law is to the detriment of the economy – Mrs Fekter, I tell you that too. It was mentioned earlier that the Greens want to bring about significant changes. I'll tell you: This is not only from the Greens, but from the general public. Why? – Because the civil rights of people like Mr Ditz are trampled on both feet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] I can prove it to you! I have the letters from Mr Ditz here, and I will then show you the difference between the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, Schüssel and Mr Ditz. I got it all here. I know, Mr Minister, that if you do not act more or less in the interests of lobbyists, your party may come into a financial bottleneck. It is clear to me that your party lives on it, but, please, not at the expense of citizens, not at the expense of citizens' rights and not at the expense of the environment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: What? - Repeat that! That's how it goes with the "F"!]] It must not happen that the highest mining authority, which is the minister's chairman, will issue decisions which will have to face an environmental terrorist. I swear to you: An environmental terrorist is going to be there! I have examples here, you'll be surprised. I can only quote as an example of Adderklaa. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an example for which mountain law should not apply. I'm allowed to quote: "Oil residues in old holes." The ÖMV disposes of more or less hazardous waste in old holes. And what's that? – "The ÖMV is calling at its..." – Listen, colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] This article is not from me, it's from ÖMV, dear friend! Listen! Look at that! These are not Blabla and Wischi-Wishauschi government templates, I'm telling you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it says: "The ÖMV invokes itself in its course of action" – by disposing of this hazardous waste in drill holes – "on the right of the mountain after which the recovery of 108 cubic meters of hazardous waste was requested." [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: That's not true! There's no such thing as that!]] That is where you have to turn as Minister for Economic Affairs, and you should invite your colleagues, the Minister for the Environment, to look at the problems. Our drinking water is at risk, our environment is at risk – but just because you are a lobbyist, you cover such abuses! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another example, which is not without – perhaps the colleagues from the SPÖ will agree with me again, for example, Mr Rada: Scattering in Straßhof. Mr President, I should like to thank You know what it's all about. In an article in the "Niederösterreich-Anzeiger" you have also demanded that mountain law be finally aligned to the commercial order – or subject to it or as always. My reigns! What's going on in Straßhof? – The Mountain Head Team is dedicated 52 hectares – or maybe even more – to gravel pits, I don't know exactly now, and this without questioning the people who have to live there with heavy traffic. We need to know the traffic conditions in Straßhof: The town of Straßhof is 8 kilometres long, and along this federal road are family houses. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Drum is also called Straßhof!]] There live people who want to rest after work. And in the future, the heavy transports will go through them endlessly! There must be something to think of, Minister. Before you grant an authorisation, you will have to consult the citizens in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Have you slept the novelle ‘93 – or what?]] They have to ask the citizens and to preserve the rights of the people, not that the Minister simply signs – and so everything is approved. That's not how it can continue in the future, I'll tell you! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: You wanted to destroy gravel yourself!]] I didn't break a gravel! I've never lost gravel in my life, I'd like to tell you by now! [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You have to see the difference: Straßhof is a municipality with 7 000 inhabitants living there mainly on the weekend. The place is 7 kilometers long and then thunders through one heavy transporter per day after another! The rights of these arrants are trampled with feet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have a good example because Mr von der ÖMV is sitting here: It is a natural gas pipeline, Russian natural gas is being brought to Austria. But where do we bring this? – One goes through a nature reserve, makes a cavalry there and reddens the trees on a length of one kilometer. On a length of one kilometer you can rub the trees – in a nature reserve! – to put a gas line! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Your colleague, you can report to me. I don't mind. But now is the following, my reigns: Through this nature reserve go – I have the plans here! – a lot of wires. I have always thought that the mountain right is applied where one wants to make a mining or also to build a line and has no other way of laying this line. I have believed that so far, but then Mr Ditz has come and taught me a better one. My lords, that goes on: There are pipes inside – not even from me; this is a letter from the ÖMV, please! – which have been shut down for 15 years. That's not from me, I take a letter from the ÖMV to the Mountain Team! For 15 years these pipes have been shut down! The chief mountain captain, in this case Minister Ditz, does not say: My reigns! The old line will be removed, it will be disposed of, we do not need to reden it, on the trail of the old line the new one comes in! - He doesn't think so. I don't understand. Are we dealing with loud environmental criminals here? I do not want to go ahead with the economy, but it would be easy for the ÖMV to remove the old pipelines that will endanger drinking water in the future and put the new lines on this route. I think that can be demanded as a citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's just an ÖVP size, today's Secretary-General, more or less inhabited in this Au, because it's a beautiful hunting area where she enjoys hunting with her husband. – A nature reserve where – by the way – 50 percent of WWF is involved! I really don't understand: There are people who donate to the WWF million schilling a year, and then the WWF does not enter into such projects! In my opinion, however, he would be obliged to do so to the people who make these generous donations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But if you have a little idea of hunting yourself, then you will probably become just like the former Minister of the Environment – Minister of the Environment! – Smoking-callat, the opinion, where only dense forest is, is it fad for the hunter, for he does not look out there. But if you go through a trail, a mile long tube in the middle of the forest, that's ideal. This is a forced change, ladies and gentlemen! There you just sit down, and you see every deer, every wild boar and all the other animals marching by. Unfortunately, Mrs Rauch-Kallat is not here, but addressed to her address: It should take less care of pigs, but more about Mr Ditz. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This would be a far-reaching failure, because I believe that these things could also be resolved without breaching civil rights. Only the Minister should have moved quickly in this case. But what really happens? – The locals, the property owners concerned were not even heard by Mr Ditz. Perhaps the ÖMV has been silent to him that there are old lines there, which rust and, in some cases, endanger the environment – that is possible, I do not know. But then he would have had the duty – and so it must be simple in the future – to ensure that the affected citizens have a party position and can defend themselves accordingly. It can't go on like this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In conclusion: Mr Minister, if you had left just a little for the environment, not just for some lobbyist, you would have caused the ÖMV to dispose of the old lines in the fastest way. Something else can happen – I have not mentioned that yet –: It's in November 1995... Yes, colleague, you probably don't care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brader.]] You don't have anything, you're a coniferous communist or you live in this world that could be. I am clearly demarcating myself in this way and in this attitude from the ÖVP – I am telling you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also have a letter from a former colleague of yours, Mr Lanner. He even gave me this in writing, that Mr Rybkin – I have already said this here – according to the remarks of Mr. Sixtus Lanner, who was concerned about where the Austrian agricultural policy should lead, where the EIA policy should lead, made the call for an interim call – loud and clear –: Ah, Kolchos! But how did Mr. Lanner react? – He responded very quickly and said: But voluntarily, Mr President, this is the difference! – That's no difference for me! That's just the difference between a Communist and a coniferous communist, nothing else – I'm just saying that by the way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Minister, make decisive changes to the mountain law! Our party will surely be ready to work with experts on this change in mountain law. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's government plan is a washer! – This is from the Minister, that is why it is a government proposal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: This is not a government template! He doesn't even know.]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6357	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Federal Minister! There are now about five minutes at your disposal, because the urgent request will be dealt with at 4 p.m. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6381	Mr President. High house! Of course, we can take the view that the Minister of Economic Affairs is to blame for everything, for any project that is built or not built. I would only recommend to Mr Wenich that, with his accusations of party funds or the like, perhaps also the division of your house, he should be a little reticent if he has no evidence. These settings do not correspond to the style that is common in this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The protection of the water is a matter for the water law authority. The principle of cumulation applies. Roding permits are not granted by the Mountain Authority, the Forestry Authority is responsible for this. Naturschutzverwaltungsgewandte ist Landesbesatz, Member of the European Parliament. You should look at the materials, you should also look at the procedures! All in all, it must be said that this is a problem in Austria and that the abundance of procedures, the abundance of approvals, is hindering many necessary investments today. I hope that we will come to a differentiated debate here. I say quite clearly – and underline what has already been said here by Members: I was also surprised that the initiative proposal for the amendment of the mountain law is now coming. This was an initiative by Members, but I welcome it because it strengthens the party position of the communities in certain matters, calms down there and gives us the time to develop a mountain law novel in which we can take into account the new studies, but also the opinions of the House towards debureaucratisation and new requirements of ecology. This is what we are going to be preparing, and I have made it clear in a very constructive dialogue, as I believe, in the Committee, that in the previous discussion the requirements of the individual parties are very contradictory and that it is very important for us to know the main issues that we are trying to put into a novel as well as the studies. Mr Wenitsch was asked to pass on his ideas and ideas – perhaps to Mr Stadler. Stadler – Wenitsch will close and try to make something constructive so that we know what the Freedom Party wants in this context. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In this sense, I see this as an intermediate achievement. However, I also see the problem with the novelle in 1990 and believe that we will try to take this into account as much as possible when the next amendment of the commercial law changes, and I would also ask for your cooperation here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6450	Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to speak to Mrs Fekter, but it is just before 4 p.m. I therefore believe that it is little useful if it is now taking the floor. I interrupt the consultation on points 4 and 5. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Rosenstingl and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the destruction of money by Flughafen Wien AG (324/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6481	We come to urgent question 324/J. She went to all the Members of this House. There is therefore a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6715	I give to Mr Rosenstingl as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6736	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals have asked this urgent question today, because it is inconceivable for us – I also know with the majority of Austrians – that the families, students and disabled people in Austria are being burdened relatively much, but the government coalition is wasting money. This government coalition has produced ongoing scandals in recent years, thus wasting unhindered money. You, Mr Federal Minister, and your government colleagues have wasted money by recklessly representing party interests. SPÖ and ÖVP party interests have faced citizens' interests. They have wasted money by party-political occupations in all areas. Not qualification was decisive, but only the party book. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's it!]] It is not economics, Mr President, that is your problem, that you do not require economics, but rather party membership with SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Vrannitzky and Schüssel have never rehabilitated a public-hand company. They have ruined many public-hand companies. SPÖ and ÖVP have not had any consequences from the economic disasters. They have always caused these economic disasters. The Social Democrats have led the "consumer" into the bleak and have severely damaged thousands of subcontractors. Vrannitzky owes the "mozart" debacle, so he is responsible for the waste of 500 million schilling taxpayers. He has also assumed responsibility. But what happened? – The DDSG no longer exists. The Mozart Debakel was indebted under the aid of Scholten. What do we have curiously today? – We have Scholten as Minister of Transport in Austria. Vrannitzky, Lacina, Staribacher, with the help of the ÖVP, have indebted the operations to HTM, thereby causing damage to the Austrians of 3.5 billion schilling. Schüssel is responsible for waste in the construction of the East motorway, at A 4. This list could be continued at any time, but unfortunately time is not enough. Now, however, there is a new peak of social-democratic mismanagement under the support of the ÖVP. This highlight is the scandal at Flughafen Wien AG at the airport building. In this construction hundreds of millions were wasted, hundreds of millions of a majority of public-owned companies, under the responsibility of the competent ministers, under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, under the responsibility and supervision of the Minister of Transport. You, Federal Minister of Climate, today are double affected: They were transport ministers and were informed of all transactions at the airport; You are now Minister of Finance. In addition, of course, the entire government is affected. Supervision of societies that are mostly in public hands is one of their affairs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Climate claims he's an innocent lamb!]] Federal Minister! They should have been aware that there were competition infringements in the construction process, that there were freely awarded contracts, that there were infringements of contract rules, that there were no proper executions of the construction process, that there was a preference for certain entrepreneurs and groups of undertakings. "Of course" these entrepreneurs and groups of companies were close to SPÖ or ÖVP. This waste coalition has to account for significant excesses of the building amount. And you were always informed. The original idea of the size of the individual construction projects has never been in line with the actual design. What did you do, Minister of State? When did you get evidence of your reaction? When did you step in to take care of order there? For example, I would just like to say that the estimated cost of extending the airport to the south in 1988 was 343 million. In fact – the final billing is not yet available – they now amount to 756 million. What were the reactions of the Ministry of Finance in this matter? Millions are wasted because of inability and the government's co-science. As a "balance" for this, the Austrians are now severely burdened. It is almost an increase of taxpayers, it is an increase of families, it is an increase of workers and it is an increase of entrepreneurs if the main author of the tax package is one of those who are substantially involved in the waste which has essential responsibility. It is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Flughafen Wien AG, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Dr. Nolz. Federal Minister! How can you represent this? You or your predecessors will send an official of your ministry to a company. He does not notice that there is waste there, he does not care about it, and then the same man does this immense load package and burdens all Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Faith But you can't say now, Dr. Nolz just didn't work, he just did this bad. You are the owner. You have to make sure your people work properly. You also have to know what happened in this airport company. Therefore, you and your predecessors are also responsible. However, reactions from the Minister of Transport – I have already mentioned it – have been avoided. Reactions by the Minister of Finance have been avoided. Both have watched this waste. Both therefore have to take part in this waste. Federal Minister! I already ask myself the question: What do the representatives of the Ministry in the Supervisory Boards do if they never respond to scandals? This is not the first time; it was the same before. But specifically to the airport Vienna AG. Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Nolz. Member of the Supervisory Board is also – and this concerns you especially because you have been Minister of Transport until recently – Dr. Stadler of the Ministry of Transport. They also have a representative as a supervisory authority, who should also take care of these things, namely Dr. Neidhart, also from the Ministry of Transport. Federal Minister! They are even in an unfavorable situation. You were transport ministers, you had two people on the Supervisory Board, but you didn't respond. You didn't know about the incidents, you didn't intervene. The Minister of Finance has asked the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, nor has he intervened. However, until today they have not taken care of these matters as Minister of Finance. If this had not been exploded now, if it had not been found out that there was waste, if not this scandal had now been revealed, then you would be sitting beautifully in your ministry and doing nothing about it. It is likely then that much more than a million, that is, 100 million more, will be wasted. What have the three government representatives, the officials of the Ministries, done in the Supervisory Boards? When did you receive information? We want to hear from you! What did you do with the information? How did you react in this case? – Nothing happened. It has continued to waste money. That was also the case with the East motorway. I would like to remind you that a few months ago we discussed this East motorway in detail, with the main debt of the other party, namely the ÖVP. There, the bowl even intervened with instruction and thus wasted a lot of money. That was and is the case with HTM. You are informed about everything because you have representatives in the bodies, but you do not intervene. I really think it's a great thing when Dr. Nolz says in a press release today that there has been no waste of tax money because this company works with profit and has delivered dividends. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The author of the tax package was written in the main book that a higher dividend could have been transferred to the State in the event of a more economical economic leadership. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a result, taxes are indirectly affected. But the author of the tax package also said that there are also minority operators in this airport company, people who have trusted that there is a proper management. In the future, if we want to privatize, we always need people who participate in companies and buy shares. These people who have been involved there, and these companies, whoever it is, have to take note today that where the state has the majority, there is still a maladministration and that no one cares about this mismanagement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! If you have already spoken of privatisation and privatisation returns today, then you should take on the scandal that is happening in this state, I think. For if it continues to be so that there is always scandals in every public society, then in the future the Austrians, the investors, will consider whether they are still participating somewhere where the State, even if it is minority interests, has the hand in the game – all the more so than it is always party-political interests. In view of this new scandal one must also deal with the occupations. It is significant – and it has also been discussed in the public over the last few days – that a member of the board of directors of the airport company is a socialist and the other member of the board of directors of the airport company of ÖVP is to be attributed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What's their name?]] It is, of course, so – and I am also in favour – that a party book should not be bothered if you want to get a job. But that in a company like the airport company two apply, which are still to be the best, of which a socialist and one of the ÖVP belongs, that is probably not a coincidence, but a calculation. These are your party political occupations! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Let us now look at what has become of the party political occupations. I was almost sorry for the two last night in the television interview, which were really helpless in this discussion, because you probably knew what was happening there. They are responsible for the fact that there are huge building costs, but the Board of Directors, as he himself said, has not recognized the damage. Ladies and gentlemen! What is it for a board of directors if he does not recognize the damage in case of building costs? There's something wrong! There were no dates. The time-limits available were again not suitable as a control instrument for the construction progress. There has been no timetable at all for the entire planning process. But the board said on TV yesterday and today in press releases, he sees no disadvantages for the company. In a project that costs more than 1,000 million schillings, namely about 1 400 million schillings, there is no deadline documents, there are no timetables, there are no control plans. But the board of directors tells us that he sees no disadvantage for the company. But it goes on: The architectural planning community has been disbursed to millions of people who are wrongful and unscrupulous in society, and these architectural contracts have to be reviewed at all. Today, the Chamber of Architects also criticises the direct award of planning orders in this order. In this issue, it calls this award of contracts quite strange. Federal Minister! What do you say about this broadcast? You are always such a protector of interests. A representative of interest now tells you that these forgivenesss are quite remarkable. But you, as Minister of Transport and your predecessors as Minister of Finance, have always tolerated these strange awards, you have found no reason to object. It is the question of how close the contractors of the party are. How close are these to the Social Democrats? How close are they to the ÖVP? What did they have to do to get these orders free of charge? Mr Ditz recently criticized a colleague and said: Do not put yourself in the room so easily that there has been party funding. Federal Minister! In the case of freely awarded contracts, I put it in the room that there has been party funding! This must not happen in that state! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And then what happened? It is known that planning costs are not comprehensible. How did you react? How did your representatives from the ministries react? It is known that the fees for execution and detailed planning were accepted by 100 percent, although at the time of disbursement there were only 30 percent detailed drawings. Federal Minister! You have told us today in the Government Declaration that you are for private economic thinking. Show me a private company that pays 100 percent of an order, although only 30 percent have been done! He won't be there. In the private sector it is the opposite: You have to pay 100 percent, and if you're lucky, you'll get 50 percent deposit once. You don't pay 100 percent if you only have a 30 percent performance. But what happened? Where did you intervene? Where did your representatives warn in the Supervisory Boards? – These contracts are becoming increasingly strange. There has been no complaints to the planners. Why have your representatives not intervened and said that this does not fit, the timetables do not vote, the timetables do not vote. Nothing's right there. There is a constant overrun of costs. Why didn't you intervene? Why didn't you take responsibility for the planners? Completion dates have been substantially exceeded. And it is clear and already aware that this overrun of the completion dates has caused considerable costs for the company and therefore again substantial costs borne by the shareholders, which are again indirectly affected by taxpayers' money. The chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr. Nolz, the author of the tax package, has watched everywhere, but also you, Mr. Federal Minister, as Minister of Transport and as Minister of Finance and also your predecessors. It is to be considered a covert, Mr Federal Minister, and I would be really interested in what you say about it. I now use the expression'skinning', and I could also say that this is close to fraud. It should be considered as a covert that the cost allocation of inadequately budgeted planning additional costs of the extension of halls South to Halle Northwest and West has been agreed to prevent overruns of the approved budget. Federal Minister! It's definitely a abuse. I think that this could even become a criminal offence if a contractor who has no competence at all simply to avoid exceeding the total cost simply killed the millions: We're missing millions, we're gonna give them somewhere else, it's a big deal, we're making good money. But what did you do? – You didn’t even notice that. If it were not now known that it would not be played high, because it is a real scandal in this Republic, what happens to the taxpayers, it would be the Minister of Finance Lacina, if it were the Minister of Finance Staribacher, it would not have occurred to the Minister of Finance climate and also the Minister of Transport climate. You do not notice the wastes in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! But such abuses can only happen when careless work is done and when you are ready, as it has always been in recent decades to waste millions. Federal Minister! The fee for domestic engineering is 11.4 million higher than the usual civil engineering fee. 11.4 million! - That's not a small thing. 11.4 million are almost already the turnover of a medium-sized company. And there are fees that are too high by 11.4 million. But your reaction is zero. There are no reactions from those responsible, there is also no response from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The total final bill of the architects is 5.2 million higher than the appropriate fee for such achievements. Federal Minister! How can there be such a thing? How can such a thing happen? And how can such a thing happen without the responsible ones taking action against it? The responsible persons are of course also to be looked for in the board area. And there you are with guilt because, as I have already mentioned, you always occupy members of the board of directors on a party-political basis. These party political occupations are not discussed in the Supervisory Board at all, they have no possibility at all. These party political occupations are being packed out here by you. Here in the house and in the party headquarters, they are packed out. Stop using this package when occupying board positions in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I would just like to remind you of what we have recently experienced at HTM. How did you say? Everything's fine, we found the big sanator. - Where are we today? You weren't Minister of Finance at the time, but your colleague, Staribacher. Or is the Staribacher and Lacina era for you now a past with which the Social Democrats can no longer identify themselves? Federal Minister! Is this really your opinion that the 1996 government coalition is beginning? Federal Minister! Your party has been to the government since 1986 – with its predecessors – and you have led this state into a budget crisis since 1986. [[Abg. May. Main: Since 1970!]] You have wasted money, and you are responsible for countless scandals in the public economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In the last decade, we have discussed the motorway companies over and over again. You did the same: party political occupations, represented party political interests. And millions and billions have been wasted. [[Abg. Anschober: Karawanken!]] They have so far refused to use investigation committees in relation to the motorway companies. For all motorway companies, Mr. Anschober! We have called for these committees of inquiry for twenty times – you have wasted the billions. We want to clarify – prevent you in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of the airport company, the same behaviour was always the same, and the same defects were responsible for massive additional costs. It is inexplicable that the Board of Directors that no action has been taken by the Supervisory Board that those responsible have never been held accountable. [[Abg. May. Main: Uneducated!]] Each with economic affairs It should have been noted that this waste of money should have been lost – all the more so, Mr Federal Minister, since you have already received reports from 1992 and have already given evidence of the waste of money in these reports. Federal Minister! If you and your predecessors were already unable to notice the waste of money on such a large project, you would have had to know, at least in 1992 when the first reports were in place, that something was going wrong. That means you should have intervened in 1992, but there have been no consequences. Its waste policy has led to a collapse of state finances. Their scandals are also co-causers – scandals, in which billions were wasted. They have contributed significantly to today's situation. They have contributed to the fact that all in Austria now have to be taxed, starting with the poorest, with the disabled. Everyone is supposed to do away with what you have caused, which you have caused by waste also in public enterprises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Main: Wrong solidarity!]] Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, you as Minister of Finance, but also Schüssel and Ditz, who have constantly given us the Schüssel-Dez course before the elections – a bowl-ditz course will hopefully never be available in Austria – you are all the owner of it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hannes Ditz, the deceiver!]] They have not exercised the interests of the owners for the benefit of the Austrians. This socialist government coalition is now burdening the poorest in Austria, burdening the hardworking workers in Austria, burdening the hard-working entrepreneurs in Austria and is unable to eliminate privileges in Austria and avoid waste of money. The procedure of the responsible authors of the tax pact is really an increase and a challenge for all Austrians. Nolz, the responsible chairman of the Supervisory Board, today claims in press releases that he knows nothing about it, he has to look at it all, and he will already react. Now it's almost too late for a reaction. The millions are already wasted. Hundreds of millions have been wasted, and those responsible have not responded. It has not responded to the responsible minister, nor the Supervisory Board President, nor the Executive Board! Federal Minister! That is why our request today is so important: to avoid further billions of waste in order to stop socialist mismanagement in our beautiful Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6950	The Federal Minister for Climate Change has now been reported to answer the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e6971	Thank you very much. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenstingl. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have already assumed that the question is of particular importance to you, as you have concluded, otherwise you would not have put it to me as an urgent question. But I would like to clarify one thing: I do not distance myself in any form from the actions that my predecessors, Federal Minister Staribacher and Federal Minister Lacina, have taken in this context. That is to say, I am right to follow the whole line of law within the meaning of this question. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The political!]] However, I would also like to take account of the fact that: It seems to be in the question "I or i!" have decided to address the question to the Federal Minister for Finance and not to the Federal Minister for Transport. That's why I'm going to answer the question... [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: He still has time!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] No, I'm not both anymore. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: You have it to answer!]] You have not followed the fishing observation by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany accordingly. I will answer the question as the Federal Minister for Finance, and if you would like, you can make an urgent request to the Federal Minister for Transport. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't trust your successor!]] Of course, you could have expected me to answer the question, not as the Federal Minister for Finance, but as the former Federal Minister for Transport. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He wants to get out of the affair!]] But for something we have to decide together. I suggest that we support my current role... [[Call the liberals: They are twice as responsible!]] I am no longer in double responsibility; it was quite nice for a time without double responsibility for two ministries, but I am not now. [[Abg. Böhacker: Tell me what you know, Minister!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! May I remind you that the airport Vienna Aktiengesellschaft is one of the few – and, as international analyses repeatedly emphasize, exemplary – airport companies introduced on the stock exchange. There are few airports that are introduced as a stock exchange company. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They are so expensive!]] The airport Vienna Aktiengesellschaft is a legal entity established in accordance with the principles of share law and subsequently also acting as an independent and self-responsible legal person whose organ acts are subject to influence only in the field of competence of the Annual General Meeting. [[Abg. May. Stadler: One of the most expensive airlines in the world!]] Therefore, in the field of management and also their supervision by the Supervisory Board, no opinion can be delivered in accordance with stock law, and such an opinion is – and this is already known to you from the original times of the national council – not covered by § 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. What you may have missed, honourable Member: Since 1995, the Republic of Austria has held only more than 17.4 percent of the shares of the airport Vienna Aktiengesellschaft. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: The time has come from 1988!]] 17.4 per cent, honourable Member Bauer! Therefore, from the side of the stock company, there are no more and no fewer information rights to it than any other shareholder, and I believe that we should make it clear, in particular with regard to insider regulations, which are becoming known again and again, that each shareholder has the same information right: the private shareholder – you know that almost 40 or more than 40 percent are listed on the stock exchange – as are the shareholders of the Republic of Austria, the state of Lower Austria or the city of Vienna. I am sure that you also know that there is a right of proposal under a syndicate agreement for the appointment of members of the Board of Directors - of course the Supervisory Board has to act in this respect - for the two Land Shareholders and not for those of the Federal Government. But I suppose you know that anyway. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] All we have to do is decide: Do we discuss this in the National Council or in the Vienna Landtag or in the Lower Austrian Landtag? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's not our problem! We are Members of this House, and you have to reply.]] I also give an answer. I can only give the answer – hopefully! – what I am actually responsible for. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Government is not our business!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I am slowly tired of the demise of Parliament!]] And so I allow myself to give the material information in peace – so far, only you, not me, are yelling! – that the Republic of Austria holds 17.4 percent of the shares and that, ladies and gentlemen, due to a syndicate agreement, the right to propose to the Supervisory Board for Executive Board positions is the responsibility of the two participating federal states and not the Republic of Austria. [[Violent calls for action in the liberals]] In my view, there is a very important separation here – and I would also like to point out that some issues, in particular those related to the implementation of the Aviation Act, fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry of Transport. And since I am allowed to answer with all the political responsibility here as the Federal Minister for Finance, it is not possible for me to be available for replies from the Federal Minister for Transport. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you, without referring to the comments contained in the introduction of the request, of the following questions which fall within the competence of the Minister of Finance: Question 1: The Republic of Austria was represented at the Vienna airport in the Supervisory Board and at the General Assembly. In the now airport Vienna Aktiengesellschaft is represented by the Republic of Austria in the Supervisory Board and the Annual General Meeting. On question 2: The term of office of the current Supervisory Board of the airport Vienna Aktiengesellschaft began in 1993. It runs until that general meeting, which decides on the 1997 annual accounts, i.e. is expected to take place by May 1998. This Supervisory Board shall include members proposed by the Republic of Austria and other organisations and confirmed by the Annual General Meeting: Head of Section Dr. Nolz (Federal Ministry of Finance) as Chairman, Head of Section Dr. Stadler (Federal Ministry of Public Economy and Transport), Director-General for Public Security Mag. Sika and Mag. Udolf-Strobl. I can add that Mr. Stadtrat a. D. Nekula and lawyer Dr. Böhmdorfer were nominated by the owner of the city of Vienna. I should also like to add that Mr Baurat Kreis and Mr Gogola have been nominated by the state of Lower Austria and Mr Christopher Reilly, a nominated representative of an international investment house, is a representative of the private shareholder member of the Supervisory Board. Question 3: The representative of the Supervisory Authority – who, as you know, only sits in this Supervisory Board for aviation matters as a State Commissioner – is therefore the Federal Ministry of Public Economy and Transport, the responsible departmental council member Dr. Neidhart. He shall perform his supervisory functions through regular participation in the meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees. He is represented as a state commissioner. Question 4: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot comment on this because of the reasons set out in the introduction. Question 5: This constellation was and is not given at the airport Wien Aktiengesellschaft. There is a separation. Mr. Ministerial Councillor Dr. Neidhart is represented as State Commissioner for Aviation Legal Affairs and not as a "normal" Supervisory Board member. On question 6: There has been a works council, consisting of the Federal High Building Officer and the construction directors of Vienna and Lower Austria, for the advice of the Board of Directors, which has not been convened in recent times in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations. Two representatives of the Works Council and, in part, the Supervisory Board’s Bureau also participated in the meetings of the Construction Advisory Council, as the company informed me. Questions 7 to 25: Ladies and gentlemen! I may allow myself to answer questions 7 to 25 in one. As noted in the introduction, construction measures as well as their concrete implementation and control fall exclusively within the organ responsibility of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Due to the legally standardised obligation of equal treatment for all shareholders and the confidentiality obligation applicable to supervisory councils (sections 99 and 84 of the Stocks Act), I have not received information from the company or the institutions of the company regarding the handling of the building activity in detail, so that I cannot answer the questions asked here. However, in January 1996, I received from the Court of Auditors the results of the review carried out by the Court of Auditors in 1994 and 1995 of the conduct of the Vienna Airport AG on the basis of which I discussed the measures envisaged by the Supervisory Board with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. In this context, I was informed that, regardless of the audit activity of the Court of Auditors, the Supervisory Board had a sample of the work carried out by an expert appointed by it to check the performance of the construction process. That is to say, the Supervisory Board has taken action on its own and has set up an expert to review the handling of the construction business. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is there a FPÖ member in the Supervisory Board, Minister?]] First I mentioned a certain Mr. Lawyer Dr. Böhmdorfer. I don't know where he belongs. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that the one from the Haider? - Oh, that's it! Now I know the source of information!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I was informed by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board a few days ago that the opinion in question and apparently also the Court of Auditors' audit report had come to the public. I was also told that in yesterday's television broadcast "Report" a section of the audit reports was sent that was marked "VIE 21". On the specific question of whether the source of indiscretion can be identified by this marking, I cannot comment on and do not want it for the reasons mentioned. I was also told that this opinion was first sent to the Executive Board for its opinion and that the Supervisory Board subsequently had the consequences to be drawn from it – only the consequences to be drawn from it! – will discuss. On questions 26 to 28: The appointment of the Supervisory Board members is carried out in accordance with § 87 Shares Act by decision of the Annual General Meeting. The criteria for the nomination by the Federal Ministry of Finance are, above all, the professional competence, the previous professional experience and other qualifications, on the basis of which it can be assumed that the nominated persons, within the meaning of the ruling teaching, are in fact also in line with the claims made to the function of a Supervisory Board. As you know, the Supervisory Board then elects the chairman from among its members. On question 29: There is an explicit representative of the small shareholders addressed by you in the form of a private shareholder representative, Mr Christopher Reilly, representative of an internationally renowned investment house, as mentioned above. Question 30: Hiezu is referred to the answer to questions 26 to 28. In addition, it should be noted that in accordance with the Federal Act of 29 December 2016, the Board of Directors of the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesgesetz) of the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesgesetz) and the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesgesetz) of the Federal Republic of Germany No. 521 on the public procurement of functions in capital companies in which the federal, state or local authorities are involved. The order is then made by the Supervisory Board as a whole. On question 31: In June 1995, 465 million Schilling Nominales were issued at the 475 S course – a total of 2.208 750 billion Schilling sales revenues. There are currently no current considerations towards further privatisation. Question 32. As I am told on the part of the company, Vienna Airport has been negotiating with representatives of Bratislava Airport for a number of years with the aim of reaching a cooperative opportunity favourable to both airports. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7225	We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the individual time limit is 15 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7249	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When it comes to the waste of hundreds of millions of money from a public enterprise, in which the Republic of Austria and two federal states are involved, then the Minister is bored from the government bank, with large, open throats – you almost want to throw something in! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Dobermann!]] [[Abg. Leikam: You're an unscrupulous person! The Dobermann is calling again!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I have simply observed that the Minister is unsleeping. What are you so excited about? I understand that the Minister is unsleeping. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I would sleep badly in his place, too, if I knew which megascandal is listening to me regarding airport company. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is what you will have to answer! As simply as you can not steal from your responsibility, as you have just tried, bearing in mind the alleged lack of interconnection right of the House! [[Abg. Leikam: Dobermann calls again!]] I have already told you this in connection with the ÖBB: You should address your legal department once again before you dispute the right to interact with the House. At the time, they tried to deny the House a corresponding answer to the question in connection with the public service of the Austrian Federal Railways. Today you have tried it again – the same shame again! You must have a pretty bad conscience because of the bodies that lie there in the basement! In connection with the alleged origin of this Court of Auditors report – you would be amazed if you knew from which socialist circles we get documents, the mega scandal is already so great that it does not even have place in our folders that already burst out of the seams – you will suddenly be interested in the gest of this stock company. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We know exactly where this comes from!]] But when it comes to the law of the High House, it is not. I recommend the literature. It is clear from the textbooks that with regard to economic activity by independent legal persons in which a public legal entity is involved, the private administration is also subject to the control of Parliament, with regard to the exercise of the right to participate. Minister! Let yourself be informed: That is to say, the activity of your owners in the Supervisory Board is very likely to be subject to the auditing control of this House, otherwise it would no longer make sense, otherwise you will create your own type of public-law company. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But to hide behind the private administration as needed, or behind the private administration coat, in order to refuse control of the House, that will not happen, I tell you! This is a right which the House sees for itself as a whole, and it cannot be planted by you and other members of the Austrian Federal Government on this issue. Mr Minister, take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The annual report of this airport company contains a number of fine dyes, something from 1994 in connection with the expansion of the airport – I quote literally –: In the interests of efficient controlling, a project management was used for this construction project, whose task is to coordinate user specifications (necessary, customer-oriented execution) and to comply with the specified deadline and cost framework. – Compliance with the agreed deadline and cost framework! This has been sent to us because at the Vienna airport one knows very well that the Hoge Haus and the parliamentary groups have a control right over this company. Well, how does compliance with the cost framework look? – In January 1991 there were still 649.4 million schillings estimated for the South Hall. In November 1991, 51.1 million were added; in September 1992, a year later, another 54.5 million were added. This results in summa summarum 755 million schilling. And now you go on, Minister. 755 million schilling, which is more than double what one originally assumed as construction costs. And this tempts the Austrian Minister of Finance, formerly responsible Minister of Transport, to yawn in front of the House, if we want to know how it is possible to handle the double cost of construction for the construction of a simple hall. The High House has a right to know what is happening! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They mention two reports: One is the Court of Auditors report, which is somewhat harmless – the President of the Court of Auditors will know why – the second is a report commissioned by the Supervisory Board of this airport company itself. However, one now tries to cut down the examiner by saying: Well, the examiner originally applied for the architect's assignment himself! as if he would make a late bill with it. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Novotny and Parnigoni.]] It's not like that! This examiner has tested very well and has come up with it – I give you a few examples – that the cost of home engineering was initially estimated at 9 million, but, ladies and gentlemen, 60 million schilling were charged. 9 million, 60 million Schilling, Minister! Is that yawning? Estimated cost of construction works: In the assignment of orders 87 million were estimated, reckoned, Hohes Haus, according to the documents of the architects were 148 million schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! Incredible! And this tempts the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, who today announced with his budget speech how he and his entire Federal Government wants to get the people into their pockets, to yawn! It makes him yawn when he hears how the money was thrown out of the window, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The glass facade, Mr. Minister – so that you can go further –: 21 million Schilling tender volume... [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] – You don’t want to yank anymore? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I'm just tired!]] You're tired. – I can imagine that. If I had to represent one mega scandal after another and was beaten by the National Council each time, I would be tired of it too. I'd like to admit that to you. Only you should finally do something to stop these things in the future. Then you would not be tired as soon as possible, then you would have done something for this republic, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I may add a little more to your physics, Minister, just briefly to the glass facade: 21 million schillings were estimated at the invitation to tender – 100 million schillings were then settled in the end, ladies and gentlemen. These examples were endless. But I would like to spare you this, taking into account the physisy of the highly esteemed Minister of State. Mr Minister, I would recommend that if you are better off reading the report of this civil engineer. You do not seem to be able to rely on your supervisory boards. I was surprised to learn what qualification requirements you place on a Supervisory Board of the airport company. Would you like to explain to me how the Director-General for Public Security meets these qualification requirements? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Oh, he likes to fly, but he can't do it often! What does the Director-General for Public Security - except that he has a SPÖ party book - recommend for the supervisory board activity in the airport company in which the federal government is involved, where he would ultimately have to represent the federal government and the owner, ladies and gentlemen? For years – and thus we are again at the Supervisory Board Dr. Böhmdorfer, quoted by you – this Supervisory Board has been responsible for examining the proceedings. Their people, Mr Minister, and also the people of the Austrian People's Party have for years prevented this examination. Only when the Supervisory Board mentioned by you has already threatened the prosecutor – who will really have to intervene now – did an examination by a private civil engineer. The test result is now available. And the head of section Nolz, so much protected by you – you can't say it often enough – who is currently making it clear with laurels that he invented the burden package for Austrian citizens, so this head of section says: These free-handed awards, which are one of the main reasons why such abuses occurred there – I have already said, about half of the orders were freely awarded, so according to the principle that those who were most concerned about the company, I do not know how expressed, were only possible under certain conditions, and there would have been award directives. These award guidelines, High House, look as follows – I may quote the following –: That's what it says: "On 35 pages of text, extremely precise, partly beyond the ÖNORM, are laid down, then with seven lines – and now be careful, Mr. Minister! – an organ – a clamp on: this is a single man, a clamp closed – to give the second/third level of decision complete freedom to suspend these award guidelines for a dimension of approximately 200 million schilling." End of quote. So a man decides on the award of 200 million schilling! In the individual order! A man! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ask the Minister how much freedom he has!]] Not even the Minister himself can have such an amount free of charge. If the Minister wants to buy a plot in this size, he must go to the main committee. But at the airport in Vienna, a man decides according to the award guidelines so much praised by Mr. Nolz over 200 million Schilling, Hohes Haus! That's incredible! This is an incredible scandal that smells to heaven and the [[Complaints with the liberals]] You should, Mr President, at last make sure that there are, in fact, directives on the award of contracts, which are also worth mentioning. For example, these free-handed awards have led the South component to free net awards of 68.5 million schilling – 68.5 million schillings were freely granted, ladies and gentlemen! This is due to an option that is very closely linked to the activity of Mr. Dr. Schmelz. This Dr. Schmelz is not an unknown man. I continue to quote from the report, where the main task is to extend the halleer to the south, and what has been called again to Mr. Dr. Schmelz: In this case too, the VIE-internal meeting note with Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Schmelz concerning the possibility of an option as a reason for a free-handed award of heating/climate – that is not what you mean, Minister! – and ventilation: This Mr Schmelz has already been in this House of Lords - yes, Mr Khol, I am sorry! – Lorberries harvested. He was a member of the National Council for a short period of time, but had to leave this house because there were first criminal pre-examinations due to inconsistencies in connection with the Gestion around a business venue, and second – and that was even more serious – there was an incredible corruption in connection with the construction of the state archive. At that time – the Greens will remember it because MP Pilz was the main speaker in this matter –: 3.6 billion schilling. – This Mr. Schmelz, Member of the Austrian People's Party, had to resign at the time. At that time Minister Graf said: It will never happen again that what Mr Schmelz has done will happen again. Mr Robert Graf, Minister of Foreign Affairs, ruled out free-handed forgiveness for the future at that time. He was able to say that with great certainty. According to APA, May 1988, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Brinek now has the current mandate of Mr Schmelz. And this man let you work again. In the airport company? This man is the head of the institution you mentioned, this works council? This man represents the Republic of Austria in this works council? This man is responsible for the free granting of hundreds of millions of schillings? – This man has to answer your government! This man is responsible for the Austrian People's Party, Mr. Wormitzer – no, it is the emperor, the emperor speaks! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Emperor: Old cheese!]] That is why it is not surprising that these government parties are joined together with an incredible kitt. Ladies and gentlemen! If you see how this is done with Mr. Schmelz, you can see the kitt that holds these parties together. It is the kitt of the proporze, it is the kitt of the division of the Republic, it is the kitt of twilighters and it is the kitt of compliments. Minister! Please note! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you don't have to go there and you don't have to hide behind any private administration, but you have to answer to the House here. For the teaching money that Mr Kastelic, mentioned in the ORF, has cost the Republic of Austria – he says, he has learned how to deal with large-scale construction projects – we do not want to pay this teaching fee of 350 million schilling at the expense of a public company anymore! We don't want to pay it any more, even as long as you, with the active support of the Supervisory Board Chairman, Nolz, take the citizens left and right into your pockets, and then have the necessary material available to distribute it brotherly and sisterly between red and black.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7464	High house! Mr Wenitsch has used the following line of speech at an interlocutory call from Mr Dr. Brader: "College, you don't care, you don't have anything, you're a coniferous communist or you live in this world." – It was also repeated the word "nadelstreifcommunist". I see in it a humiliating and therefore insulting statement, and I give to Mr Wenitsch a call for an order. Mr Parnigoni. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7495	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! When I remember the beginning of Mr Stadler's speech – clearly I looked, colleague Partik-Pablé, yes really! – in which he speaks of the opened throat, then, Mr Stadler – excuse me, if I say so – it would be the right name for you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] It would actually be appropriate for you because of your very special "friendliness" and "enjoyment" to the people, because of your "necessity". [[Abg. Haigermoser: What?]] It is a really nice, big, wild animal, which always opens the throat with sharp teeth. Mr Stadler seems to be artificially related to such an animal. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which animal?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say what we think of the statements. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What kind of words?]] You, with your "sandler" expression, stay cool and quiet, Mr. Haider. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler meant that the Federal Minister would withdraw the Parliament, so to speak, from review in the given situation. The fact is, however, that, as in many other areas, Parliament is naturally referring to the Court of Auditors' checks. High house! The Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament and is also set up by Parliament in accordance with all matters relating to the examination of those establishments or bodies of the State in which the State bears the main responsibility. In this case, it is even true that the main responsibility is not more than 50 percent of the federal government, but is actually divided into the federal government and two local authorities. The urgent request made by the FPÖ is unnecessary, as is the case with most of the requests made by the liberals, because it addresses the wrong recipients, ladies and gentlemen, as Flughafen Wien AG is a listed company. The federal government – which has already been mentioned – holds 17.38 percent of the share capital. Therefore, it cannot bear the main responsibility in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if we keep talking about the fact that the policy of management, the management of companies, is to be kept out of the management of companies, I do not understand the liberals if they are here to demonstrate the influence of policy on the management of a company listed. I would be really interested if Mr. Westenthaler, who has already disappeared from the gallery, listened to this debate, Mr. Haider, so that he can perform the same theatre in Vienna's Landtag in order to play the music there for the Wiener Landtag elections, and also hand over the documents to the colleague of the Liberals in the Lower Austrian Landtag in order to perform the same theatre there. [[Abg. Haigermoser: So what?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors report is not yet available to us. What surprises me, however, is that Mr Stadler is already quoting from this Court of Auditors report. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He didn't!]] He literally quoted that, you can read it in the minutes. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I have not quoted a Court of Auditors report!]] I've paid close attention. You will be able to read in the minutes that Mr Stadler has quoted from the Court of Auditors' report. I ask why he has it, but the rest of the parliamentarians are not. That's weird already. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should prepare better before you talk!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It has already been mentioned that Flughafen Wien AG has not been provided with tax funds for 15 years, that it has financed its investments on its own, and that in 1994 about 200 million Schilling of dividends to the State, i.e. to the federal government and the countries, and to the private shareholders. Thirdly, this request is unnecessary because the Supervisory Board has introduced a controlling system. Three projects were selected in accordance with the random principle, which are now being examined. The Supervisory Board has thus become active, has committed acts. As I have been told, in this report of this control body, there is no damage to the company as a result of this procedure. In the fourth place, it is only acceptable for the FPÖ to make it clear that Mr Haider cannot accept the fact that he is not present in the media, for example in tomorrow's press, on the day the Minister for Finance has given the budget speech here in plenary. He can't do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Maybe you didn't say anything special! The fact is that you are concerned that you will not be able to report in this way tomorrow. That's why you staged this theater here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have also made better speeches!]] Fifth, ladies and gentlemen: This urgent matter is of interest – and this was meant by the Federal Minister – when the question arises why on television a report has been submitted to a supervisory body to the public. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have to ask the ORF!]] If a report with the impression "VIE 21" is presented to the public, and if one knows that this sign honors the documents of the Supervisory Board Dr. Böhmdorfer, which only he has received, then it is actually to be concluded that Dr. Böhmdorfer has provided these documents – I can only suspect – to someone who is now presenting them via the television of the public. [[Abg. Leikam: Listen! Listen!]] Who is this Mr Böhmdorfer, ladies and gentlemen? – Dr. Böhmdorfer is – first – the Supervisory Board in a listed company subject to the corresponding provisions of the Stock Corporation law. Secondly, Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer is a lawyer and, as I am told, a close associate – of whom? – the clubman of the Freeman Dr. Jörg Haider. That is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I therefore simply see the need for action: First of all, it has to be examined whether Dr. Haider, Dr. Böhmdorfer, due to his political relations, which he – which is not disputed – has undoubtedly not led to the violation of his Supervisory Board obligations in accordance with Sections 99 and 84. That's to be checked once! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's to be checked, but not the waste of 700 million?]] Secondly, the institutions, namely the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board and the General Assembly, Flughafen Wien AG, are invited to examine whether your behaviour does not give rise to the existence of credit damage. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Thirdly, the Disciplinary Board of the Bar should be asked to examine whether Mr Böhmdorfer acted in accordance with his professional ethics as a lawyer. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now you have really declared what you want! Cover, don't reveal!]] For the sixth time, the Court of Auditors must examine how Mr Magn. Stadler has available a Court of Auditors report which has not yet been accessible to Parliament. Seventeenths, the 49 percent private shareholders of Flughafen Wien AG are required to defend themselves against the damage of their interests by the liberals. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to say: This urgent is another building block to the picture that Austrians now have of the liberals. Your political goal is now known to all Austrians: You want to mess up, you really want to be nothing but tumultuous, you want to act credit-damaging, you want to be call-damaging on the road. This gives you satisfaction in a certain way. If only I recall Mr Haider's statement in the previous debate. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I didn't say anything!]] Of course, you have said something, which is also stated in the Minutes. – You have meant that all those who work as sand-winners or stotters today are sanders for you. These are for you, so to speak, people second category. That's how you deal, Dr. Haider, with the people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are one who does not render good service to this society. I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen: The Court of Auditors, the institutions of the company will examine and produce results. We will then be discussing the Court of Auditors report here in the House and we will have to talk about this result. There has been no urgent need for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7748	Mr Stadler spoke in favour of an actual correction. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7769	Mr President. High house! Mr Parnigoni has just said that I should have quoted in my speech from a report on the Court of Auditors. I note that I did not use a single quote from any report on the Court of Auditors during my entire debate. Secondly, Mr Parnigoni – also untrue – claimed that I had received a Court of Auditors report from the member of the Supervisory Board of Vienna Airport AG, namely Dr. Böhmdorfer. I note that I have not received from Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer a report or other documentation on the activity of Flughafen Wien AG. I received such documents from a SPÖ party member. Dr. Böhmdorfer is not a SPÖ party member in my knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7805	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e7827	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this so-called urgent request, a company that has delivered an excellent balance sheet in recent years shows a really good economic development and thank God – which is especially important to all of us at a time of difficult labour market conditions – over the last few years, with all the companies that are in the framework of the airport buildings, has created 5,000 additional jobs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The new airport director!]] I would like to say that I would be glad if there were many such Austrian companies that provide more jobs, profits plus high tax benefits. This is something to be added. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the second. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Isn't the melt ÖAAB member?]] Mr Stadler! I have always taken the view that we have to deal with things here in the National Council, all of which are informed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The question of Mr. Schmelz is already the second time! You know him, don't you?]] For example, the Court's raw report is not available to us, nor is there any other expertise available to us. I happen to know – because I have seen it in the documentation – which raw report is actually available to you. I also know because I happen to have seen the number of the report that has been made available. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a scandal!]] I will find out who has been provided by the Supervisory Board with this number of raw reports. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Independent of: The Austrian People's Party has always expressed the view that we should be serious about all the information the National Council receives. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you read other documents?]] But he should do so, not on the basis of any suspicions, but on the basis of information available to all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a trick among colleagues! He's sharpening!]] Mr Stadler, yes, I have seen that! I have thank God for two eyes, use them, and go through life with open eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is the duty of every individual Member who is responsible here in the House of Commons. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have sharpened colleagues!]] Let's be honest, Mr. Mag. Stadder: If the Court of Auditors draws up a raw report on which Vienna Airport AG is currently issuing an opinion, which is then forwarded to the institution responsible for it - the Court of Auditors is responsible to the National Council - I believe that we should immediately, in the Court of Auditors' Committee, discuss the whole matter with all events, with all the events, with all the data, with all the planning documents. I hope that this view is also yours. But everything else is a way that you develop as a style, namely to scandalize something without other access. This is a way that we do not tolerate, which is not responsible and which is not serious in the discussion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I do not have the Court of Auditors' raw report. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ask the melt!]] I do not have such data at my disposal. A meaningful information and discussion is only possible on the basis of the same information statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I only asked myself by phone – no, no! – for those persons who have the annual reports that any individual shareholder of Flughafen Wien AG may have. [[Abg. May. Stadler: By melt!]] If someone shows interest in this society, he can also receive the information. I was somewhat surprised when I heard the statement by the first founder of this urgent question, namely Mr Rosenstingl. He said – I recorded this literally –: "In this construction hundreds of millions have been wasted." [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes!]] I value this statement: Hundreds of millions! The data available in the annual reports are as follows: In 1990 the construction decision was taken. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Talk to the melt! You're not informed! The melt will explain this to you!]] The Supervisory Board approved this construction decision in 1990 with a requested investment amounting to 649 million Schilling. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You forget the year 1988...!]] Wait! The first Supervisory Decision, which was taken at all in Vienna Airport AG, was adopted in February 1990. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that's wrong! You're not informed!]] Then, of course, the construction progress was re-examined at the individual Supervisory Board meetings. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where you misinformed the melt!]] The last decision, which was not taken long before the construction project was completed, was taken in 1992, i.e. four years ago, and this Supervisory Board decision was based on various expansions of planning – it is apparent in these individual business documents that more than 40 percent of planning expansion has been carried out; therefore, it has not been the same volume as originally anticipated – an increase of 756 million schilling. That was in 1992. That is, there was an increase from 649 million in 1990 to 756 million in 1992. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Lord Melt described this completely wrong to you!]] First of all, not even all – I have been able to find out – have been billed, but I can tell you that it will move within the framework of the decisions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who did you ask?]] Mr Mag. Stadler! Listen to me! You can't have a discussion with you because you can't scream anything but in. Screaming is not a culture of discussion! They always believe to have to scream at the others. Mr Mag. Stadler! Take note of this: That's not a serious debate you're doing here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: If the Court of Auditors will give us the submissions, we may find that less than that million amount fixed by the Supervisory Board in 1992 has been used for the entire construction. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it turns out that the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of this Flughafen Wien AG have used less than was actually approved by the Supervisory Board for the entire volume of construction, and you say here that hundreds of millions have been wasted, or, as Mr Rosenstingl said, "it had to be determined that there had to be significant excesses of the building amount", then, I must say, is the damage to call, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A nonsense!]] They have to be responsible for this, because this is a style that aims only to scandalize – scandalization as the value of the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We from the People's Party - and I have said that this is certainly true of our coalition partners - are, because of the fact that the Court of Auditors report will undoubtedly be sent to Parliament over the next few months, very much interested in an open and serious discussion of the entire construction project, the entire planning project, but also in the control of costs. This is a serious process. But a few days before this construction project is opened to the public and to try to scandalize with the reference to "almost hundreds of millions", that is a kind of unscrupulous policy. Let me once again hold this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You don't know each other!]] I know myself better than you! I'm different from you, too, the one who's trying to... [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm out twice a week!]] Yes, to use the plane! But I am outside because this airport is in my constituency and because I also make business visits as a Member. I say the following to you: Mr Mag. Stadler! You know, there are farms with a total of 12 000 employees on this whole area. So there has been a good trend in recent years from the level of employment. I'm not thinking about what happened to dividends for the Republic. I do not agree with what has been done on tax benefits. However, I am looking forward to what increases this company has achieved in recent years – and these are significant increases. In the last ten years, the number of passengers has increased from around 3.6 million to 8.5 million. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From whom do you have the numbers?]] You can read this in the annual reports if you are interested in this development, and I am interested in these reports and these things as a member of this constituency. In addition, I can tell you that, I am also one of those who have some shares from this Flughafen Wien AG. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] So I have a special interest in it and, of course, I know what development this company is taking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're talking about private interests!]] You should inform yourself, Mr Mag. Stadler, but do not go here and spread scandals through a company, but see which companies create jobs, which companies supply taxes and which companies also pay dividends to those who have such shares. This is a positive economic development that we need in total in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the last ten years, the value of this company has increased from 2.5 billion of the previous evaluation to 15 billion schilling. This is a significant increase, from which the Federal Government and the countries of Lower Austria and Vienna will undoubtedly participate, and we will also benefit from a future sale of an additional tranche. This is a very, very useful development, especially at a time when money is needed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. I think we should be serious about the development of a company in such a debate. However, we should not be scandalized here at a time when not all the reports have been received and the opinion of the company concerned is not yet available. This does not deserve the company, it does not deserve the people in charge of it or the workers employed there. I think we should confess to a serious process that can look like this: After we have received the report, we will discuss it in the Court of Auditors, and then you will have the opportunity to repeat your accusations either, or perhaps the obligation to withdraw much of what you have now made of allegations and accusations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you will be old!]] This is your chance, the alternative. I say that both have you as an alternative, but come here and make someone very bad, that hundreds of millions have been wasted, although I have noted that this is within the framework which the Supervisory Board has approved, that is a kind that, as I believe, is unworthy of a Parliament, of a National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8250	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8271	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to warn you that you are now pretending to be a bagatelle – no, Mr Khol, I am already on it – and that you are moving the problem completely elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you think the Stadler?]] I do not blame Mr Stadler on his reply to the Minister's reply. I also do not blame the way in which these incidents are addressed to the public. I do not blame the kind of indiscretion that has obviously been committed here. But I don't think that you're going here today and saying, well, it's actually nothing, it's a company like any other and has used a little more. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough for me. It seems that the symptoms in the course of investment and procurement projects in which the public hand is directly or indirectly involved are always the same: insufficient planning basis, insufficient cost estimates, construction delay – and already the spiral goes up. Ladies and gentlemen, the company Flughafen Wien AG is a majority of public enterprise, and it must therefore also be noted that there is a legitimate criticism of the award and the shortcomings shown by an authorised body, namely the Court of Auditors. There is no doubt that this company has been under discussion for many, many years as a privatization candidate, namely as a full-privatization candidate. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are enormous political ruptures in the area of Flughafen Wien AG, and I do not believe that there has ever been a serious attempt in recent times to crush these political ruptures. There are political ruptures between the management, the Supervisory Board and the political parties in the federal, state and local authorities. That will be, I fear, until the company is really privatized one day. However, I am afraid that we Parliamentarians will have to wait a very long time at this time, because, when I remember the public debate, four years ago, the talk was that Vienna Airport is being expanded, that it is an excellent company and that the conditions are good. So the project can now be implemented step by step. For four years, it took up until the proportion of the public-law body has dropped to 51 percent. It is very convenient – and I see this as the primary driver also for the owners in the Supervisory Board – to act in a protected area, to move in a circle of people, where you are among yourself and where you do not have to be holes within the framework of a general meeting of critical private shareholders. Just as it is now and as the property relationships are, it is certainly the more convenient way. Only, this cannot remain the meaning and purpose of a privatisation project, that there is no fundamental change here and that there is no significant change in the ownership of the federal government, the state of Lower Austria and also the municipality of Vienna. I am afraid, however, that the way in which the debate is going to take place will lead to more and more progress being made and the next privatisation step will be very, very late. Ladies and gentlemen! I say that many of the owners mentioned by the Federal Minister for Climate Change have little to no desire to put up with a changed ownership situation here. I also support this thesis, among other things, that not so long ago in the Lower Austrian Landtag there was a debate with exactly the subject, namely the return of Lower Austrian participation. It was a very stimulating debate, and our Landtag member Dautzenberg has presented this situation very precisely in the Lower Austrian Landtag and also meant: If, in the course of the last privatisation tranche, the federal government significantly decreases its share, then the countries of Vienna and Lower Austria should do the same. I still have a good memory of what the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP have all come up with possible and impossible arguments to document that this is actually not necessary. There have been quite clear arguments as to why we should not privatize more. Finally, this also led to a similar debate in Vienna's Landtag. You remember, it was also in the newspapers. The Wiener then argued: Yes, if the Lower Austrians do not take their share back, we see no reason to do so either. It is only in the last episode that there has been a difficult compromise, so that the last privatization tranche can be carried out at all, and it has occurred for some time that this will become an uncanny blamage. I am afraid that in this last privatisation these 51% have been cemented and that, contrary to many announcements made by the ministers and also by other leading politicians from the government groups, nothing will be done about this. I believe that privatization, which has been envisaged, is the only step towards finally removing the acceleration of politics and the economy, and we Liberals will not stop to press ahead with the privatisation of basically privatising companies in terms of the fact that they will become a majority for the private shareholder, that they will go to the stock market, and that the company will really take on the value that is actually due to it through its entrepreneurial function. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also believe that it is now time to privatize the last companies most of which are state-owned over a period of four to five years, according to the many slamassels that Austria has experienced in the course of national policy over the course of 20, 25 years. I am impatient owners who act quickly when something happens, and impatient supervisory councils who do not like such statements as were expressed by Mr Kotrba and Mr Kosteli#, much better than those who hide in the protected area and say: Don't get upset, nothing happened! Have you been spending a few million schillings more? – That’s not how it can be done! That would not be a step into the future, it would be a step into the past, and that certainly cannot be required by Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8317	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8338	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every year again, we could almost say, perhaps even every month again, these debates on building scandals. In recent years we have had a series of discussions about building scandals in Austria. We could already create a political map of scandalography in Austria. From the western Arlberg road tunnel via the Tauern motorway, via the very freely dominated Karawanken motorway up to the Pyhrn motorway, then towards the east to the east motorway, and now we have reached the airport in the center of Austria, in our federal capital, in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But this is Lower Austria!]] As far as I am aware, Mr Klubobmann, it is Vienna Airport AG, which we are discussing here today, and it is based in Vienna. And this scandalic chronicle, ladies and gentlemen, has been moving for months, has been in Austria for years, has the same roots over and over again, is due to the fact that in Austria we have an incredible recovery and transformation in the field of party policy in the award of these construction contracts and in the case of these construction companies, each of which takes the orders that we have huge gaps and problems in the field of procurement, procurement in Austria, which have not been corrected to this day, that in addition to these gaps in procurement, we also have huge problems in the field of construction supervision, which always bring the same scandals on the agenda and actually allow them to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the area of road construction alone, a round billion schilling is now spoken of. A billion schillings have disappeared in the street building area alone, simmered. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! And the parliamentary debates about it are similar to twins, like Siamese twins. Each time, the members of the opposition, completely indifferent, of which party, whether the Liberals, Greens or the Liberals, are the subject of an affair, and each time the same reaction is made by the two coalition parties: Cover it, just don't look what's really going on. The whole thing calm, maligned, impoverished, will be nothing, let us see that we are coming to the public. Just do not control any changes to the system that would make these scandals impossible. And every request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is rejected in this House. The opposition is then accused: Here's a defamation, here's a call murder, and so on and so on. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You could have saved these debates here and the public debates for a long time if you had finally complied with the demand we have been making in this House since 1990, namely to implement a comprehensive reform in the Austrian construction business, to implement a comprehensive reform which would primarily resolve this party political filtation, which would, second of all, achieve the overdue reform of procurement and procurement and a more rigorous control by the construction supervision. They didn't do this, but on the contrary: You go to the method and practice it for years, that you are hindering the investigations here. The next example was already on the agenda today in the House behind the scenes. Next scandalous company: the Upper Austrian OKA. Complaints: There millions of taxpayers and electricity customers are wasted, above all, for a purely party-politically motivated campaign for the Upper Austrian head of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] And in sad agreement, black and red are trying to stop even a discussion on the question of whether there should be an audit of the Court of Auditors on this affair. Mr Mühlbachler! They are no longer even willing to allow the Court of Auditors to carry out scandalous projects here. They will know why as Upper Austrian Members. This approach by Red and Black has system in these questions, and you have it yourself to answer if one scandal question after another places in worrying regularity here. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this Causa airport Schwechat are the accusations, they are clear and clear on the table. And the core of these accusations is not so much the Court of Auditors' report, but is the 90-page audit report of civil engineering engineer Hans Lechner. This has been very detailed about this question and has examined the now more than 700 million Schilling expensive facility, the expansion of the airport central hall, very concrete and very detailed. And he has just formulated black on white that there has been a huge increase in construction costs – that is not too impoverished and not to dement – from 354 million schilling on – as Lechner says in his control report – 700 million schilling, which is quite high 700 million schilling, as Lechner clearly and clearly states. And this is a planning chaos by creating raw buildings without responding to the needs of house technology and knowing them. It is therefore a completely picturesque approach to this matter! Half of the contracts were unjustified, without tendering. Construction took more than two years due to these weaknesses and problems. Construction costs were, of course, the result. Nevertheless, according to Lechner, the inspector believes that the construction costs remained within the approved framework. And that is what Mr Höchtl referred to. The construction costs remained within the approved framework. Mr Höchtl, you know what the Lechner says, why? – Because the framework approved by the Supervisory Board was too large. So you have to tell us why this has been so. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It's going on. Today I open the post office, there is this letter in my post, a very interesting, nice letter. [[shows it before]] It has been written by officials of Carinthian Street. Mr Kukacka is not here. This was his construction centre in Upper Austria when he was still the construction councillor. It is still the road building centre in Upper Austria. And here I will be informed of an issue that is highly interesting and that fits precisely into this scandal series, in which, moreover, always, when the FPÖ is at the feeder of power, the FPÖ is just as inside. And we should also talk about that, Dr. Haider, how it was with the Karawanken motorway and the corresponding accusations and the there existing sifting of hundreds of millions of taxpayers. That's what we should look at in detail. And we should consider in detail what party journals of the FPÖ have collected in millions of heavy ads over the same period and why. But since the investigation is not allowed here, we will still wait for it, but we will come back to it. Now I'm coming back to Upper Austria. Two motorway constructions within a kilometer distance, expansion of the West motorway to six tracks, renovation of the West motorway, first the area of Ansfelden – Linz and then the route of Asten – Enns, which is now under construction. The allocation time is one and a half years different. And then these mail writers, these informants, write the following: This section – the now awarded construction section of the Enns – Asten motorway – has now been offered around 40 percent cheaper in detail constructions than the construction section before. The letterwriter asks the question: How's that going? – Simple: This time there was no protection and this time no price agreement between the construction companies succeeded. Every Tuesday at 10 a.m. – which is described in a very concrete way – the construction leaders of the first mentioned construction companies meet each other in order to conduct price agreements on concrete upcoming construction projects. In this Once the price agreement has not been achieved, and the construction project is already 40 percent cheaper, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Can you imagine what the damage to the Republic is to the taxpayer? [[Abg. Kiss: What does it have to do with the airport in Schwechat? That would interest me!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Theme Missing!]] I have acted very, very quickly and immediately sent this letter to the Public Prosecutor's Office today. [[shows it again]] And I assume that very, very precisely, these new references, where quite concrete names are called, are being acted and clarified. [[Abg. Kiss: What does the motorway have to do with Schwechat?]] Mr Kiss! You know, the problem is that They obviously have nothing to do with the construction business. Ask Mrs Fekter once! This comes from the center of the building power in Austria. She'll know the whole system. The problem is that the gaps in the procurement system, in the tendering system and then in the control by the construction supervision are exactly the same whether they are the construction of the Pyrn motorway or an airport building, Mr Kiss! And there's nothing to do with impoverishing and dementing. That doesn't make sense, because the one who pays the bill for all these construction questions and for this scandal series, that's the taxpayer. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's why the construction industry is so very good!]] But maybe you don't care, I don't care. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Especially in Upper Austria, the construction industry is doing so well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second part of the affair is certainly the ecological variant. It is also no coincidence for me that the Freedom Party does not address these issues, which are obviously indifferent to them. A huge problem has now been – the minister knows this as a Schwechater or an ex-Sweechater or a Sweechater, he knows it as a Sweechater, he also knows the noise situation in the region – the ecological impact of the population in these regions around the Austrian airports. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Still-Sweechater!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If an Flughafen AG is advocating the huge increase in air traffic rates it has, which are dramatic increases in air traffic, if, at the same time, Austrian air traffic increases enormously, if, for example, we have had an increase of 103 000 to 296,000 movements since 1989, at the same time, the flight movements in Vienna-Schweichat have risen from 38 000 in 1980 to 75 000, then this means a dramatic deterioration in the quality of life of the passengers. And if you read at the same time the environmental control report of your own Ministry of Environment, which criticizes and addresses the lack of virtually all regulations and laws in the noise field, in a possible and necessary ceiling of flight movements, in the necessary taxation of the kerosene, then you will see that this is one of the huge environmental deficiencies in Austria that is not being followed. And air traffic is dramatically involved in climate change. Air transport is currently contributing around 30 percent to climate change, and you can see very clearly how the growth is looking forward to these two statistics. [[shows it before]] These are dramatic curves upwards, because one has to intervene ecologically at some point and do something. The situation reminds me very, very clearly and clearly of the situation in the truck traffic in the fifties, where everyone was happy that the trucks were rolling. At the time, no one has seen the ecological problem and the impact of the arrants. Now we also need to intervene very dramatically and very quickly in this area, especially because the pollutants in the affected altitudes are much longer in consistency than on the ground. For example, at nitrogen oxides we have a consistency of about one year in these heights. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler said that he had the Court of Auditors report. I've had it for about an hour. It is this Court of Auditors report on which it is concerned. [[shows him before]] I quote you two, three very nice jobs in the last minute of my speaking time. I believe that this is important in order to actually recognize the scope of the problem. "This example showed that the large investment projects of this airport were very harsh in economic considerations. Projects of this scale should be subject to the strictest control standards." But: "In setting up an external controlling by a civil engineering office, the Court of Auditors saw the first step in this direction, but too late." Or: "The investment costs underlying the investment decision by the Supervisory Board were gross estimates for the construction investments. The Supervisory Board did not receive any information on detailed cost estimates and the outcome of the calls for tenders, which, in the Court's view, greatly reduced its control possibilities." Or: "The Court therefore considered that the information provided to the Supervisory Board allowed only limited statements on the actual state of the investment." Or: "Individual comparisons from the gross estimate to the detailed estimate of the order result to the final calculation were not prepared and not presented in a large number of projects." Or: "The Court of Auditors criticized this lack of cost tracking and pointed out that, without such irregularity in the accounts, irregularities were not excluded." Or: "In the course of the sample review of the investments, the Court of Auditors noted that the estimates of the individual projects submitted to the Supervisory Board and approved by it had subsequently been adjusted several times." And and and so. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors report, this raw report has it in itself! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Where is he from?]] This raw report has it in itself! And we're going to be very...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8502	Talk time, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8517	Today we will be discussing very, very precisely, some details of this raw report. [[Abg. Murauer: Where is he from?]] Wherece he is, my colleague, I do not tell you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8556	The next speaker was Mr Graf. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8577	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I do not know what Mr Höchtl has done all morning. What he has said here is that he obviously walks around in documents of the liberals, he has not done to me, although I am his seat neighbor. That's what I can afford. He wouldn't have found anything there he suggested. I have only noticed one thing: that he was nervous all morning and has also permanently tried to contact the Board of Directors Dr. Kastelic about the parliamentary staff of his group. And then what happens? – Then Mr Höchtl turns out here and gives a jubilation as I heard it last in real socialism, especially in the GDR. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We do not understand this by parliamentarianism to make joyful speeches. This is not the home of the liberals. We must also be able to control this, and that is what we are doing. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] But also Mr Parnigoni does not seem to read or even watch TV at all, or he is simply simply not informed of his club, and his activity here at the speaker's desk is all the time limited to making victims a victim, that he is precondemning that he is trying to conceal him and that he is criminalizing persons in the protection of his immunity. That is his understanding of parliamentary control! He also said it when he thought that the political objective of the liberals was now clearly on the table. Of course it's on the table. This is also the discovery of corruption and the like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not, however, obvious that this is the objective of Mr Parnigoni, who, as has been said, is only under cover and in the credit damage of private individuals. But also very briefly to the Federal Minister. If we have heard this answer, we must find that it was a real farce, which was offered here again. It was not answered at all. He expresses himself in front of answers, speaks introductory nebulosis, nothing at all, indisputable polemic sentences from the government bank, and then he goes over with a stroke: "I don't think the questions, I can't answer 5 to 26, because" - and since he believes that the construction measures that were set fall into the organ administration of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, and because of the share rights – of course, as always the obligation of confidentiality – "these Supervisory Board persons were prevented from informing the Minister in detail". Yes, Minister, no one has prevented you from informing us of what you know. They have not told us anything at all, as it is always the case, that they are stifled under the duty of confidentiality, behind data protection, where it is not appropriate, just to make it difficult for parliamentary control. Minister! I ask you very seriously: You, as the owner, should also be interested in the fact that the supervisory authorities sent by the owner also provide you with detailed reports. And above that you can't disappear with the silence of the right to share. I think there have been a lot of questions left open. But obviously your freedom is not only limitless over the clouds, but also very hard at the airport on earth. You then try to create a confusion of competence between you and Mr. Ex-Minister Staribacher, who obviously was only busy all the time bringing the HTM group down the stream, and therefore had no time to take the airport under control during his operating period. And then, of course, in his short term of office, he has always thought about artists and friends with millions of guests in various close-to-state establishments. But control has not been exercised. You certainly know more than you say here from the speaker's desk, and I'm sure that You also have to admit that you knew more. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said about this. I would like to sum up a few points very briefly: The real scandal lies in the fact that, among other things, a free-handed award of the planning contract has taken place without competition, that there was a lack of concrete basis for the order of the building owner for spatial and functional programmes that they lacked. In addition, existential planning services such as pre-design, design, application plan et cetera were delayed and carried out incompletely, but fully charged and also paid in advance. That's something that's strange to the private sector. The fact that poor and delayed planning and coordination errors resulted in significant cost increases and delays in time also remained unanswered. The fact that two thirds of the benefits have been paid freely speaks for itself in such sums. However, substantial awards were also made on the basis of options which did not comply with the public procurement or the contracting authority’s procurement guidelines, although he claimed to have committed himself. The advantage for the client was not understandable at all. It seems to me personally to be excluded that the management has not noticed these massive mismanagements, errors which, as has been said, have remained without consequences until now. "Money was wasted," was also said. It has already been said by my previous speaker that money can be spent on many useful things. Until now, it has not been possible to provide appropriate assistance to neighbouring and citizens; Aids for noise protection measures for afflicted citizens in the high-speed railways, especially in Vienna-Donaustadt, is my constituency. It also has the city of Vienna, the decisive influence at the airport Vienna has failed to understand, until it was demonstrated by free mandates, the neighbourhood advisory board on noise development et cetera and measures against it. That was actually abandoned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Only – that will be confirmed to me by Mr Edler – did I make such requests at the time in the district office and our countryman in the country day, did this happen. [[Abg. Edler: You're too late!]] Unfortunately, however, I must hear from the neighborhood councils that Swoboda's representative of the Neighbourhood Council, who is responsible for Vienna, is never present at the meetings. That's the real problem and the scandal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Edler.]] Until now, there are no really attractive alternatives to the public transport connection of this airport. There you can actually use the millions who have been wasted in the course of these construction measures. There's a question of action. In general, it can be said that the property rights of the federal government are exercised by supervisory councils sent by the Ministries, i.e. officials, including in banks, according to the Banking Act: Supervisory officials, state commissioners et cetera, all of whom register the nice gage of 6 000 s per session, apparently do nothing about it, at least do not comply with their control rights – and then Parliament is certainly asked. The recent events relating to the airport Vienna due to the free-standing award of contracts are also the cause of financial losses for the owner and thus ultimately also for the taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen! It must therefore be ensured that in undertakings which are, directly or indirectly, wholly or partly owned by the Federal Government, the award of contracts is excluded. Deputies Rosenstingl, Mag. Stadler and Dr Graf are therefore submitting a motion for a resolution and invite all political groups to join this request in order to achieve improvements in the future. The application is as follows: The Members who have been signed represent the following Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Quoted print version removed]] This motion for a resolution does not require any measure, but it expresses a desire to change something in the future. You are very welcome to join this request. Instead of defaming the speaker's voice and making joyful speeches here, you can make a constructive contribution in order to stop waste of money in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8679	The request referred to above is in accordance with the provisions and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8703	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I believe that there is a lot to be done for the time being. Mr Rosenstingl and his supporters talk about the Freedom Party talking about scandals, overtimes, misplannings et cetera. I don't want to say: Don't stir up, cover on it, we don't talk about it, it won't be so bad already!, as Mr. Firlinger put it, but ask: On what basis is the National Council to discuss today? What documents does the National Council have today? [[Abg. Mr Graf: The urgent question and the motion for a resolution!]] What documents do you have to make these accusations? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: An informed minister hopefully!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Either you have no documents and the accusations are taken out of the air, or you actually have documents, but then these are those that you have got under violation of someone's confidentiality duty. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For that you are not informed, we can't do anything!]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: From the Socialists!]] And that is not the basis on which the National Council should hold this discussion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we do not say: Cover on it, it's not that bad! We need a reasonable paperwork and a reasonable basis to be able to discuss this at all. And this reasonable document will be given by the Court of Auditors' report. There is a Court of Auditors report in preparation, there is a raw report, but as far as I know there is no opinion from the Management Board on this raw report. The final report will then be forwarded to the National Council. Then, if this final report is in the Court of Auditors' Committee, it is the right time to discuss it with concrete knowledge on the basis of documents. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then read it once!]] Then we can talk about it, but not today, without having documents or based on documents you have, but we can't. That's not how it's going! [[Abg. Silhavy: That would be a serious work!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the question by the Minister: You have not made this request as a Supervisory Board to a Board of Directors, but you have made this request in a parliament to the owner representative representing 17.3 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To the owner's representative!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Today – and before?]] And a owner's representative representing 17.3 percent can and must not even have the information available to a Management Board in an AG. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He doesn't want him either!]] If we take our work seriously, if we leave what the Executive Board has to do to the Board of Directors to the Supervisory Board, what the Supervisory Board has to do to the Supervisory Board, if we take organ discipline seriously and what belongs to the National Council is discussed in the National Council, then we cannot discuss this today, and then this is not possible on the basis of a request to the Minister of Finance, but it will only be possible if the final Court of Auditors report on it is available. There is therefore, as has been said, a proper procedure; this proper procedure is to arrange a report in society. This report has been prompted by the Supervisory Board, which is the report by the civil engineer Lechner. And the basis for the discussion in the National Council will be the Court of Auditors report, which will be sent to the National Council anyway. Of course, every political group is free to judge for itself what is urgent. But it is also free to give the others an opinion on this. I believe that there is no urgency in this case. Mr Rosenstingl himself said that he felt that there was damage. It will be clear whether that is true or not, but at least the damage should have been caused, no longer avoidable. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] If we learn from it, then the other methods are different, other control mechanisms that we might be able to install. But we won't be able to do that now. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Böhacker has already said that!]] [[Abg. Rosenstingl: That's why we continue to cause damage just because we can't avoid it!]] Mr Rosenstingl! No further damage can be done now. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Make sure that no more damage is caused!]] The only possibility that exists is to change the system; and we will only be able to change this system if we do not discuss this with the competent minister on the basis of an urgent request, but if we discuss this seriously when the documents are in the house. I've already said: These documents are those which the Court of Auditors will forward to the National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The term "damage": It is already possible and also right to define damage in such a way that it exists in the missing dividend. But one should add to the clarity that in the last 15 years the airport operating company or the airport operating agency has not received any public money, no tax money. On the contrary, the airport-AG paid dividends. If we are already talking about the airport, it should also be said that the airport in Lower Austria in this region is an extremely important, indeed almost the most important employer. In the airport sector, about 12,000 employees are currently working – about 5,000 more than they were ten years ago. At the airport, 8.5 million passengers are currently counted per year, which will rise by about 8 to 10 percent from year to year. Per 1 million more passengers – this is almost the increase rate of one year – will be more at Vienna Airport and in the surrounding companies by 1,000 workers. So, per 1 million more passengers, about 1,000 more workers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Is this a free letter for money waste?]] That is just to point out the importance of the airport for this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Next topic: The public service is the majority owner of the airport operating AG. 17.3 percent of the federal government, 17.3 percent of the state of Lower Austria and 17.3 percent of the state of Vienna. I also believe that it is necessary for the public authorities to remain the majority owner of the airport in the future. I think it is wrong to act as suggested by Mr Firlinger, namely to insist that privatisation is more than 50 percent. We should make it clear that the airport is an important infrastructure; we should make it clear that it is extremely important for transport policy reasons and also relevant for security reasons. And there is the question of how this can be reconciled to a company that belongs to more than 50 percent private hands. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I can explain this to you!]] That is why I believe that it would be a wrong way to further privatise the airport operating agency beyond the current level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last thing – because we're already talking about the airport, it's also about the constituency in which I was elected – is: The current question regarding the construction of a third road has been raised. I can only say that this debate should be held in such a way that it is made clear that this third road is not necessary. It is also not accepted at all for many reasons – especially by the population in the district of Schwechat and Mödling – because this would make the environmental pollution, especially the noise pollution, very high. I believe that it is necessary to try to cooperate with the airport of Prussia in order to prevent the construction of this third road. Cooperation with the airport of Preßburg will be possible in particular if there are really reasonable train connections between Preßburg and Vienna Airport and, above all, between Vienna and the airport. In particular, it is also necessary to implement the S 7 and all other rail links with which the airport can be connected to the public rail network as quickly as possible. I believe that these questions are of real urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8963	I call Mr Wurmitzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e8985	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As a government party, the People's Party is, of course, ready to enter into a discussion with the opposition at any time and on any subject. But today's urgent request shows some of the circumstances they make more than supple for us. First – that has already been mentioned here –: There is no Court of Auditors report on this by the hour. As Members of the People's Party, we reject the illegal possession of a raw report from the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also more than remarkable that just that group, which is the chairman of the Court of Auditors' Committee, here in the House of Auditors, has a very sad report of the Court of Auditors. That is incredible, and that is unique in Parliament's history! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's incredible!]] But one thing I can promise here: As soon as the report is available, we will examine it carefully, and we will take advantage of all the possibilities of the Committee on the Court of Auditors to put the facts on the table. Secondly, The building is finished. Even if you bring in a urgent one today, you will no longer be able to influence the construction management. But I almost feel that the upcoming opening for the liberals is the reason, as is the 13. Fee appear and load the building with curse and shame. That too is a method that we reject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Mr Haigermoser! If you had wanted to prevent anything, you would have had years to report here in this House and to make an improvement. I'm asking: How long does Dr. Böhmdorfer manage that he needs six years to get on with false and inadequate planning? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also convinced that someone who needs years to find waste on a building is an blatant error of the Supervisory Board. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question must already be asked here: How close is Dr. Böhmdorfer to the Freeman? – My knowledge is the trust attorney of the liberal clubman. Also the computing of power. I would like to question Stadler here. He has today mentioned three examples of costs exceeding 191 million schilling. – The total cost increase of the building is only 107 million schilling. Mr Stadler is supposed to explain to the House how to accommodate 191 million schilling in 107 million schilling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To look at it objectively: Vienna Airport is an absolute asset of the Republic. In 1994, 200 million Schillings were distributed to dividends and 181 million Schillings were taxed. The increase in traffic in passenger traffic can also be seen. It was 53.7 per cent between 1990 and 1995 and 53.7 per cent in absolute terms: an increase of 5.7 million to 8.5 million persons transported, and it is expected to be 12 million by 1998. The number of employees was also increased by 14.17 percent, and the performance of an employee per passenger was converted by 33.4 percent. A total of 9 billion Schilling has been invested at Vienna Airport since 1986 – perfectly invested – and economically. – This is the success balance. The needy of the liberals represents the irreproachable attempt at scandalizing, criminalizing, and for It shall apply the principle of aliquid haret: Something's gonna hang up. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're not a Latin, Wurmitzer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Well, you're not a big Latin, Haigermoser!]] But the facts are different. The construction decision of the Supervisory Board included 649 million schilling. The increase was made in 1991 to 701 million schilling by extending the scope of performance – not by waste, but by extending the service catalogue and the scope of performance – and in 1992 was 756 million schilling. Of course, one can also criticise such a large construction project. Planning had to be partially re-adjusted; that is right. It has also been noted that planning costs have not been depreciated. According to my knowledge, architectural and planning services should not be written out, even after the ÖNORM B 2050. Those who have built themselves know that it is nothing unusual, even forced to rethink, rethink, and rethink. The form of awarding is also critical. But the airport operating AG was not bound to ÖNORM B 2050 until 1993, which has only existed since 1993. If the construction prices of the already completed East berth from 1988 are calculated to the present price level, then it must be noted that the new South berth was built more cheaply than at that time the East berth. This is, if you look closely at it, a success report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since you have the opinion of the Supervisory Board, I would like to ask you: What damage finding did the expert make? Report the damage that this one has found! - There's no one. He has not made such a statement. But this fact you don't want to hear, your strategy is another: You want to mess up, you want to scandalize, you want to criminalize. That you do this just today has a very special reason: They want to face up to the serious and decisive budget speech of the Minister of Finance. That's transparent. That's your strategy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In these things we will not share, for that we are not to have. This is also the reason why the urgent must take place today. I also looked at the "main prosecutors", ladies and gentlemen. If you want to investigate, you should go where you have responsibility or responsibility. 14 days ago, in Carinthia, a liberal countryman had to resign because she and her company had paid in the amount of 40,000 s to an official of the state government. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] The responsible speaker in this section was Dr. Jörg Haider. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] These are the facts. If you're looking for scandals, you should start from the "F" with yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9118	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9139	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right in advance to the all-moving question: How do some of the opposition have this raw report? That is a legitimate question, but it is not the real problem. It is therefore not the real problem, ladies and gentlemen, because it is obvious for "learned" Austrians to assume – if there is in some way in a state-dominated, majority-state-dominated company, a very much changed settlement than the planned – that something has happened in some way. That is why I share the view of Mr Firlinger – contrary to what one of my previous speakers has said – that the real problem is that it is a company that remains a majority in public hands. This is necessarily – at least significantly facilitated – also a policy influence. The Court of Auditors report should actually be a reason to talk about honest privatisation – and not how it is done in Austria. It is true that, as long as a company is not a majority in private hands, such circumstances can never be excluded and, of course, there are political links. So, like the Court of Auditors' raw reports on political cross-border links, come from the Supervisory Board to the political parties. But since this report is undisputed, it is an addition, ladies and gentlemen: A raw report represents the Court's first findings to be submitted to the undertaking with the request for an opinion on these considerations. Since these considerations, which were communicated by the Board of Directors to the Court of Auditors, have not been communicated to the Court of Auditors, but which Liberals have very well asked the Board of Directors of Flughafen AG Vienna, I would now also like to present those arguments which are brought here by the Board of Directors. In the final report of the Court of Auditors, when these findings of the Court of Auditors on the one hand are compared to the replies of the Management Board on the other, it will be to be assessed to what extent errors have actually taken place. A total of 7 billion Schilling was built in the area of the airport between 1986 and 1994. It has been criticised by the Court of Auditors for the settlement of a project – the transit hall of South, which covers 10 percent of the funding volume, and it has already been implemented by Airport AG – after concerns had already been raised during the audit – in order to create clarity. Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Hans Lechner commissioned to carry out additional detailed tests of three major construction projects from that time. On the concrete allegations that have already been made in the media, the Executive Board considers that no excessive costs have been incurred at the overall project Transithalle Süd. He also makes an international comparison. He says that the airport expansions carried out at the same time from square meters are in the lower third. There are also specific examples: As more expensive terminals, those of the cities of Stuttgart, Hanover, Munich, Cologne-Bonn, Hamburg and London are quoted as being cheaper only those in Copenhagen and Nuremberg. It is stressed that the hall was very well completed in the schedule and will also be put into operation at the right time. In particular, all investments have been made from own resources. On the area that causes the real uproar: the change in planning, the Board of Directors says: The first estimates were made in September 1988, which would have amounted to 343 million schillings. In February 1990, an investment of 649 million Schilling was requested and approved by the Supervisory Board. . I am surprised that in 1990, when there were inexplicable transactions and this very high – almost twice as high – amount of investment was not justified, the supervisory councils in the company were not alarmed. It has included this adapted planning – which is now, as has been said, the double of the original planning – a 41 percent larger area. In the course of the course, however, a conscious change has been made, and the planning sum has been increased to 756 million schillings. The Court of Auditors’ report then states that these changes are planned, and that criticises the Court of Auditors – quote: "In the view of the Court of Auditors, the scope of the desired enlargement was not discussed by Flughafen Wien AG at the time of the investment decisions in 1988. This resulted not only in the planning phase, but also in changes during the construction, both of the construction scope and of the construction equipment." It is now possible to imagine an incorrect planning carried out in 1988. Perhaps the conditions have changed in such a way that the whole of 1988 has not yet been projected. But it will again be in the final report of the Court of Auditors, even though the Court of Auditors has given its opinion on the comments made by the Management Board, to assess whether a damage has occurred or not. With regard to the free-standing and non-equitable award of major projects, the Management Board says that, while at that time the applicable internal procurement directives contained the mandate to comply with the ÖNORM, the possibility was also left open that the Technical Division Head, and in certain cases the Head of Department of Construction, could also be made different from the ÖNORM if one could achieve a better result than with a award to the ÖNORM. And it will be clear from the Court of Auditors in the final report whether this is a better outcome in the final effect than after the award of the ÖNORM, or whether this is just a preventive argument of the Board of Directors. With regard to the allegation that there had been a planning chaos, the Board of Directors says that house engineering was involved from the beginning of the planning and that it is therefore not understandable that a planning shaft had passed internally. Weaknesses identified have already led to organisational measures throughout the process: In particular, a project management was set up for the Pier West in November 1993, at the beginning of the construction process, which was accompanied by a permanent controlling. It seems that, on the basis of the information available to the Liberal Forum, it is not possible to behave in such a way that there have been scandalous errors about the extent of scandalous crime. However, whether such a large volume of investment has resulted in incorrect settlements and not enough foresight, ladies and gentlemen, should really be the subject of an extensive and factual discussion in the Court of Auditors Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9209	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9230	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurmitzer, your excitement about the Court of Auditors' report, which has come to the public here, is a bit exaggerating! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Wurmitzer! Unless you complain again to the then head of state of Vorarlberg and the current head of state Pühringer. For, in order to remain in the division of Professor Lukesch, the two have "detested this house if you like". For these two were reserved to publish a report which was not intended for publication as members of the government of a state government: This was the former head of the state of Vorarlberg and the current head of state of Pühringer. You'll remember: Mr Stadler was still in the state day in Vorarlberg when it came to the ASTAG report. The President of the Court of Auditors then meant that, in the interests of arms equality, he would also bring this report to the Court of Auditors here in Parliament, because he cannot allow a high EIA politician to be mocked by Mr Lucisch and Mr Wurmitzer. That is why he brought the report to the house at the time. Mr Pühringer has published the report as the Landesrat van Oberösterreich, with the argument that he no longer endures the pressure. He felt pressure. Mr Wurmitzer and Mr Lukesch. Obviously, there has been some pressure here. I do not know this pressure, I have not been told anything about it in the letter that arrived in the green club. Unfortunately, it was not true about what pressure it was dealing with. We know about Pühringer, from the head of the state of Vorarlberg we also know, but... [[Abg. Murauer: What do we know? It would be very interesting what you think we know about Pühringer!]] That's what he said: He no longer has the pressure to know that terrible things have happened within the civil service! That is why he went to the public with his report! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] That's what he publicly announced to Mrs. Fekter at the time! He didn't say he didn't hold the pressure because of your gravel business! He didn't claim that. He just said he didn't stand the pressure! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] With regard to the sender of this report, I do not know what pressure this person has not endured. Unfortunately, I don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He wanted to prove the innocence of his officials against such slanders! They've been acquitted in court proceedings!]] Mrs Fekter! You know exactly... [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] You know very well that the procedures have not yet been completed. And you know quite exactly how massive pressure was exerted by political side, also on the courts, and how long... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Massive pressure only practice the greens on the dishes!]] The ÖVP speaks to the Greens of great "punishment" of this House, but does not find anything in the case of their heads of state who are deceiving this House after its diction. And play now You are also a savior of the innocence of officials! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that what you are doing here, Mr Wurmitzer, is a bit frivolous. If you are really interested in this Court of Auditors report, which was sent to us by post, obviously as an Easter letter, then come to our club! You can sit there and study him through, of course you can look at him! I have the suspicion that you are not concerned about the content of the report, but about finally closing the gaps through which such "indecent" information is given to the public. That's your biggest problem, and all the speeches you left out of the stack today were in front of outrage, which in turn came to the public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Look, Mr Wurmitzer, why don't you go to the speaker's desk and say: There is an urgent request from the FPÖ, as hundreds of millions are spoken of, which is very interesting and very problematic. We wait until we have the documents in hand, then we can check. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's how I said it!]] No, no, no, They're excited about the mercenaries: About Mr. Pühringer you're excited! About the then- Mr. Land captain of Vorarlberg you are excited! And about this letterwriter who sent us this "unappetising, indecent" report, you're so excited! That's where the outrage comes through. Mr Wurmitzer! We have made some solid proposals in the Court of Auditors on how precisely these things should be put off. I'll tell you: This report certainly does not come directly from the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's the copy number five!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! It is the Court of Auditors' report number six! I copied it for you because I knew you were looking for the decryption. But that doesn't matter at all, Mr. Khol! You'll find the "Denunciants" for sure! You only need to look in your own ranks!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9369	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9390	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, it is not my way of dealing with Mr Wurmitzer's comments, because his remarks do not usually contribute to the matter, but are exclusively a reproach of the liberal Members. Today, however, he has said something to which I must repeat. Mr Wurmitzer! They meant: If a Supervisory Board takes six years to reveal waste, it is an blatant mistake. - There was a condolences with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] I conclude that you very much see the Supervisory Board crew with Dr. Böhmdorfer as an blatant mistake because he did not reveal any waste. That means: There's a waste. Conversely, you say it's all in the best order! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're a rabbi!]] I have to tell you, Mr Wurmitzer: If there is actually waste and Dr. Böhmdorfer has not revealed this, then the entire Supervisory Board is an blatant mistake: It's the red and the black! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the liberals.]] However, I should like to remind you, Mr Wurmitzer, that it was Dr. Böhmdorfer – that has already been said several times today – who has repeatedly pointed out that it should be examined accordingly. Finally, it was also the Supervisory Board, which used a civil engineer to draw up its own audit report. – Why does a Supervisory Board use a civil engineer to produce a test report? Because everything was in the best order? Because everything was tutti paletteti? . I assume that the competent civil engineer did not write this report completely free of charge, but it will have cost a nice barge of money! And if everything comes in. Order is and the Supervisory Board still requests its own examination, then the waste of social resources is, and that would be worrying! So the chairman of the Supervisory Board must have already had massive doubts that something is not right here. But also Mr Parnigoni, whom I do not see right now... [[Abg. Parnigoni: I'm here and listen to you!]] He's a wanted-for-federal minister! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Thank you!]] Instead of drying the swamps in sweat, he has tried, under the motto: Hold the thief to criminalise the liberals. Mr Parnigoni! Credit damage was the mildest form of the criminalisation of the liberal delegates. I know. You'd love to kill all the liberals! You would also like to change extradition practice in such a way that, whenever it shows something, a freeman is delivered, sued, and brought to death by civil law! This is the method, Mr Parnigoni. [[Abg. Parnigoni: With such indecent liberties as Haider already!]] It was like this again and again: Whenever the liberals showed up a scandal, they were first slandered, insulted as nesters, and so on. Finally, in most cases, however, it has been found that the criticism of the liberals was correct. However, there have never been consequences: neither economic nor political. Mr Höchtl! He is not yet a minister, nor is he the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but perhaps he is a Minister. In a truly burgtheater mature performance from my point of view, he tried to save what can be saved. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Schoolmen are responsible for this!]] Mr Lukesch! Höchtl, however, once again caught the wrong piece, he was on the next topic! In one view, I share his view that the Court of Auditors should discuss the final report in detail. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How often!]] I have been a member of the Committee on the Board of Auditors for about five years, and I know that there will be the same game that we have had to experience here today in answering the urgent question by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. There it will not be the Federal Minister, but there it will be the management who says: All these things are operational agendas of the company, and these are subject to the obligation of confidentiality. The same will be said by the Supervisory Board. And nothing will be clarified. – That is why it is the primary task of this House and its Members to bring light into the dark! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be pointed out where the weaknesses lie. Because otherwise it goes on like this: The next large building site of the public hand is determined, and the same things will be repeated: at federal level, at national level and also at local level. Millions will be wasted, but there will be no consequences! However, Mr Höchtl's remarks were also not conclusive. On the one hand, he damned the request of the liberals because he did not have the same documents because he did not have any documents on these transactions in the area of airport Schwechat. On the other hand, he plays the jubilant and says: It's all in order! The evil liberals are scandalizing again! That's where I ask you: What is true, ladies and gentlemen? What's really true? Does he have documents that harden his statement that everything is all right – or did he go into speculation to distract himself from the co-responsibility of the Austrian People's Party in this scandal of wastefulness? I do not have a Court of Auditors report here, which I can quote: I'm just quoting from the ORF report "Report" of 19. April 1996: The Court of Auditors' accusation is that: The new buildings were created under wasteful circumstances, his report – the Court of Auditors report – reads like a guide to how not to plan and build. Claim number 1: Insufficient planning documents and post-construction planning changes lead not only to significant cost increases, but also to an extension of construction time, which in turn resulted in an increase in construction costs by the valorization of construction costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Any private company would probably have to report bankruptcy in such a process, as such cost increases for a construction project – from the 1988 estimate of 350 million to 756 million schilling in total – would not result in any private company. When Mr Höchtl says: Perhaps even the construction costs of the approved costs will be reduced by the Supervisory Board, then I have to point out how the architectural services of the architects Fehringer and Wilke were billed: It was agreed in a brief note that planning costs of inadequately budgeted planning additional costs of the extension of halls South to Halle Northwest and West are transferred to avoid exceeding the approved overall budget. Ladies and gentlemen! One can very well respect a planning cost framework if one assigns the planning additional costs of the South project to another cost centre! If this happens in the field of a private company, I would put the person giving this instruction on the street as the head of the company! But it goes even further: Both the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board – and this is what is interesting about it – were not informed of this procedure, as were not informed of the increase of the architect's fee for the additional planning performance of approximately 9 million Schilling. So who has the say in this company? – Costs will be paid in millions, without information being provided to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Costs are allocated to other cost centres, only to comply with the planning specifications. Mr Lukesch! What do you say? Is that the regularity of a bookkeeping? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I don't know the opposite of the company!]] You don't know her yet. We'll come back to that! I can tell you one thing, and in the Court of Auditors we will experience it: Many things that have been shown today – rightly shown – will be partially rejected by the management, and no answers will be given to questions relating to the obligation of confidentiality and to the fact that they are operational actions. This is a common practice in the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a classical pre-condemnification!]] If we in this House do not have the courage and the self-understanding as Members of Parliament to clarify these things, then these things will really never be clarified and put off! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! You said today in your speech on the 1996/97 budget that a red thread would be drawn from the 1996/97 budget in connection with the safeguarding of jobs. That's what I'm saying: There is also another red thread in Austria, a socialist red thread: For decades now, such as pearls – like red/black pearls – the scandals of this republic have been waved on this red thread: AKH, DDSG, AMAG, HTM, "consumer" and much more – this list could be continued endlessly! Results of these scandals: billions of Austrian public assets have been managed, destroyed, which in turn has led to massive tax losses, and these massive tax losses are now forcing this Minister of Finance to get deeply into the pocket of Austrian citizens and taxpayers. These scandals, this waste, this destruction of public assets force the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government to raise taxes on a massive scale and, above all, to save women, especially the weakest in this Republic, the disabled, the young. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Socialist Federal Government!]] This is the policy that this red and black government has been responsible for for for years, which we liberals will repeatedly point out here in this House, but also outside with the citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! It would have been better for all the representatives of the government parties to do so, not in turn for the sluggishers to play the culprits, but for these swamps to be drained in silence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9581	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e9606	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the Grand Coalitionaries! [[Oh-and-oh-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Socialist Coalition!]] Look, it just needs a signal word – and you wake up. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The farmer is loud, but not strong!]] So ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, big coalitionaries! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You were always just a small coalitionist!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You were only the State Secretary at the Steger!]] You make it easy for me... [[Abg. Edler: You won't do it with your time if you don't start!]] Mr Edler, I have my time budget if you allow. As far as we are concerned, we are not yet aware that the SPÖ or any other person has to determine what I am doing here, as long as it is within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, of course. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Grand Coalitionaries! I know you have a particularly difficult time today with this urgent request. [[Abg. Edler: No, really not!]] Sure, and I'll tell you why. If you haven't understood it yet, that's all the fataler for you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God!]] You'll know and you'll hear right away. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Will you prove this to us now? We are already very excited!]] As you link on the one hand a huge savings, better said, tax package for the public, and on the other hand, there is a Court of Auditors report, there is a private opinion on how you, the same red-black proportion and coalition willows, at the same time in other areas, throw the money out the window with both hands or allow such a thing to happen. And it's hard to make that clear to the public. On the one hand, you say: We have to save, we have to tighten the belt, on the other hand, we cut the money out of the window. It's not very easy to argue. That's why you're the first to have a hard time. I particularly think that your strategy today, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with this problem is inconceivable. I have not seen you like today for a long time, if you allow me to say this, Mr President, that you will not be able to comment until the Court of Auditors' report is available. Whether this raw report of the Court of Auditors is now officially in the house or only in the newspaper, only in a print medium, has been dealt with in an electronic medium: Somehow you know what it's all about – except you don't read newspapers, except you don't listen to radio, except you don't turn on the TV; so I suppose you know about what it's all about. They also argue that, basically, everything is paletteti. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, everything is fine!]] And the argument why everything is paletteti? – The company ptioned positively! I already admit that this is a special sensation in the mind of some major coalitionaries when a company is positively suffocating, it may already be that this is something extraordinary, but it leads to the conclusion that in such a company everything has to be palette, is somewhat bold or by reason of reality. That doesn't say anything yet. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second part of your defence strategy is: If there is anything to criticize at all, then it is the fact that these things come to light at all; that is the actual piggy. So if there is anything that is not all right at all, then the question of how it can at all be done that such things, which - I say this once again - the Court of Auditors has admittedly come to the public in the form of a raw report, and which have essentially been confirmed by 95 percent of a second, namely a private expert. You don't deal with it in terms of content, no, you just say: How is it that such a thing comes to the public at all? You don't deal with how you can put it off, you don't stand for it, you just say: Officially, we don't know anything – I admit, that's easier than having to confess color here. They therefore prefer to deal with the question: How does such a thing come to the public? Who's responsible? Whoever has broken silence and confidentiality? You have a good pioneer in this defence strategy, one of the two board directors - I don't know it was the red or the black one - who, when faced with the content of the Court of Auditors' report, said: Well, this is a political torpedo of the liberals who have been shot down to disturb the opening of the Pier East. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] So such a thing – excuse me, Mr President, I hope I don't get an order call – I have such a depressing thing... I'm sorry, no, you're not supposed to say that. I've never heard anything stupid, naïve, primitive, or inconsistency at all. There is a Court of Auditors report, and the Director, who is to comment on the content, says that this is a political torpedo of the "F" so that the opening of the Pier East is disturbed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is his level!]] The Pier East has nothing to do with the things that are going on, and secondly, you will know and the Director - I say again, I don't know - has been the red or the black - will have to take note that we – and I say: Thank God; it is really that way – it is not possible to lead the Court of Auditors and to dictate to the spring what we – as opposition, not as a citizen – might have wanted to stand in there. It's not like that. That's not what we invented. And you have seamlessly implemented this impeccable defense strategy today. Granted, you have it third hard... [[The speaker drinks a drink of water.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Taste the water, Bauer?]] Not particularly, I admit. [[Abg. Grabner: Then stop drinking water!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He thought if he didn't harm the Minister, he can't harm him either!]] Thirdly, you have it hard, ladies and gentlemen, for every detail of these new, incredible stories that have appeared there in the extension and reconstruction of an airport hall – this is something you have to keep in mind, as I have in some people the feeling that they are quite huge things, such as the construction of the General Hospital in Vienna or something like that, no, it is the, as admittedly central, hall of Vienna Airport, which has been transformed and expanded; so that we can make this clear once again – because everything in this history fits into the usual, unbeautiful image of red-black so-called economic, better proportion policy. Every detail naturally fits into the usual image. [[Abg. Grabner: No, the hall is not beautiful!]] Oh, my God, there are simple minds! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Just you say that!]] Dear colleague Grabner... [[Abg. Grabner: You're saying that!]] He is so glad that the hall has become beautiful and that the hall is standing and has not coincided. I think that's normal, Mr. Grabner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know, it's not that the built hall is really standing and a light is inside and the lighting is working, but it's about the conditions under which it is completely normal: Has it been achieved from a cost-effective point of view? Has the tax or whose money always been sparingly dealt with? Is it efficient to build? Those are the questions. It's not about whether it's nice inside, whether the light works, if the hall stands and does not coincide. You know, that's too little for me, but I'm glad to see you that she's beautiful and works. - Good. It fits everything in the picture, as I said. Of course, there are two directors in this company. Clear: One was nominated by the red Vienna, the other by the black state of Lower Austria. The most important qualification of these two gentlemen is obviously – I say consciously: obviously – the right party book, also as usual. For whether they have further qualifications, I cannot really judge them. [[Abg. Grabner: But you do it!]] But I can draw my conclusions from what has been said in the media reports on these things, which the gentlemen essentially do not dispute. The Court of Auditors and this private opinion attest a planning chaos to this couple of proporzzwillings – literally according to "Kurier" report: a planning chaos – in this so "gross", "gigantic" construction projects such as the expansion and reconstruction of an airport hall. A planning chaos! The two supermanagers didn't bring it together, I say again what it was all about – to bring it over the stage without the shadow of planning. And precisely in this picture, the helpless justification is also appropriate when they have been confronted with the report. When one was asked: What do you say about this?, he said, besides the claim, that if a "F" political torpedo was fired, he also meant: The time pressure was so great. – With this he justified the planning chaos. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] So I have to say that the two gentlemen of Red and Black, by SPÖ and ÖVP, seem to have very strange and strange ideas of management and performance, for what the two gentlemen felt was too much time pressure, the Court of Auditors and the private expert on the other hand have qualified this way: You've needed two years to do this. So the managers had the impression that they were under a huge time pressure, so there had been such a planning chaos, while the Court of Auditors and the private expert thought there had been nothing like that, there had been no time pressure, on the contrary, they would have used two years too long to build. Thirdly, Of course, these two proporzzwillings freely award about 50 percent of this large order sum of 756 million schillings. Of course! That fits into the picture. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 200 million to one person!]] That's why they're sitting there, I'm afraid that this will happen. That is why they are sent there, and therefore it must always be two, one of the reds and one of the blacks, so that everyone knows who gives what order freely in any form. [[Abg. Grabner: Tell us something about where they sent you everywhere!]] Of course it is! You can understand that everywhere. All right! - I don't have the time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Tell us something! You don't want that!]] The last example I have given here with pleasure was the same process in the construction of the East motorway. That didn't work. There were problems. The Red Burgenian Government has objected to the award of the Fifth World War. Hardly anyone from the red half of the empire, from the Burgenland, has been taken into this stock company, it has worked. All of a sudden, the fifth session was accepted. Therefore: Don't tell me! That's the background, and that's how it goes from time to time. That's all I'm saying! – Well, I would like to say something to you, Mr Kiss. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a raubersg’ layer’! And none of the reds are touching!]] [[Abg. Kiss: None of the reds are touching!]] [[Abg. Grabner: I've been touching myself all the time!]] There are also a few orders that have really been signed out. I don't know, were those the necessary fig leaves to check something out? There are also, about 50 : 50. All right! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sure, that's true!]] And now you hear and marvel what happened again! I can only take one case. There have been seven providers for a very specific area. And who, do you think, came to the train? The first, the second, the best bidder, the cheapest bidder? – No, the fifth time has come to the train! [[Call to the ÖVP: This is immense!]] Right! That's where you're wondering: Why is that so? Why is it this time and again? I can't believe in coincidences because I've experienced this since I've been able to think politically. And since I've been acting politically and sitting here in the high house, I can understand that. It's always been that way! So I wonder why it is. Or I don't actually wonder anymore: I'm completely clear why it is. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Give a different example!]] I agree, Mr Steindl. Of course, fees are also issued and accepted, which are millions above the fee order and which are already paid 60 percent before the gentlemen have signed, planned or calculated at all. [[Abg. Kiss: Another scandal!]] [[Abg. Kiss: The shotman has spoken like a dreamman, and now you're talking like a dreamman!]] That's where you're wondering: Why is that so? In addition, when you know that these were the gentlemen who came to the train in the course of a voluntary contract. Ladies and gentlemen! The end and the consequence of this red-black so-called economic, better proportion policy is also always the same: huge cost increases to the detriment of third parties! [[Abg. Kiss: Who says that? That's not even the Stadler says!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is evidenceable! It's detectable!]] In the specific case, it is a cost increase of 343 million schilling to ultimately 756 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! What that's supposed to do and what's behind it, a blind man grabs with the crutch stick. That's why you should do it too!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10080	Mrs Preisinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have heard a lot about Vienna airport and Vienna airport operating company in a debate that has already been held for several hours. The impression that is solidifying is that this is a company in which everything that is good must be expensive, in a change of a well-known proverb. Luxury pure! But not only luxury pure in terms of costs for construction projects, but also in terms of, for example, airport tariffs. The fact is that, in order to do so, there is no need for a Court of Auditors report or any other opinion, the rate level of Vienna Airport is at the top of the international airports, and that this is always due, among other things, to the relatively high costs. In view of the abuses that have now occurred or have come to light, you can say: Who's wondering? A practically non-existent competitive situation for the airport Vienna does not allow any pressure on the existing tariff costs. We therefore have to deal with a tariff policy which, in my opinion, is protected in itself, which already needs to be changed and brought into line with greater competitiveness, given the increasing trend of liberalisation, which can expect a transition to more competition. - This on the one hand. On the other hand, we have the high and rich profits that the airport can make over and over again. The net proceeds from air transport and other services are quite significant. From 1986 to 1994, they increased from 1.4 billion schilling by around 140 percent to 3.3 billion schilling. That's a good thing! But I'm still holding on: We are dealing here with a majority of the public undertaking, which has been acting as the owner of the Republic of the Minister of Finance, who has for many years witnessed these abuses, which he had to know and which he has not had to pay attention to only now by means of a report of the Court of Auditors or a civil engineering report. Moreover, there are also the two board directors mentioned several times, one of the SPÖ and the other of the ÖVP, who are now as elegant – as they could be seen yesterday from the TV show – from the responsibility. But, of course, we have one more person and one more mentioned, namely the President of the Supervisory Board and the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Supervisory Board, Mr. Nolz, who is not an unknown personality, since he is also the author of the savings package, and who, in fact, declared before the camera that this waste of money – as it was called medial yesterday and not only by us – did not cause damage to the taxpayer at Vienna Airport. Of course, a damage to the taxpayer has arisen, because if the rich profits achieved are generously managed in the form of construction projects, there is an indirect line to the taxpayer. If the airport operating company had not returned the money it had generated, it would of course have paid more taxes accordingly. It could also have distributed higher dividends to the Land of Vienna, Lower Austria, the Federal Government and the private shareholders. But this obviously does not interest the main responsible and the main cause of the savings package as much as our Federal Minister – who is obviously still very tired. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There would have been enough signs and clues that something could not be right and that it would not be the way it should be, because if we look at it more closely, this airport company is more likely to emerge than a slaring country of the destruction of money. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] There are already, in order to do that, there is no need for a report on the Court of Auditors. Let us focus on investment planning. You yourself, Mr Minister, spoke of a works council whose task is to assist the board of directors in questions of new buildings, renovations, construction projects and the like as a consultative body. However, it is already the question of the point of being sensible if, for individual projects, the project descriptions to this works council are usually presented with rather short and concise descriptions of the project, possibly with the request to recommend the project planned to the Supervisory Board or the Management Board. If, perhaps, calls have already been made at this time, we must ask ourselves the question of how meaningful or how important this works council is and what role it actually has. But also some comments on the cost of estimates, which have already been addressed several times today and have also been discussed in the media. We have to do with the cost of estimates, which have been approved by the Supervisory Board, increased and adapted several times and, of course, also approved. How this goes, you know: by simply allowing supplementary permits, so as to increase the fiscal framework that you have put yourself, then if you can no longer comply with it, if you get beyond it. Then one can still argue that one would not have exceeded the cost. This is actually a milkmaid bill: If you don't get out with the money, you'll get more money so you can say again that you have more available. Then you can still say outwards that you would have stayed within the cost framework. This is relatively easy to see in itself. Public reporting can also be seen that the perceptions of the size of each project do not correspond to the actual and submitted project summaries which have been used or submitted for approval. It can be seen from today's edition of the "Kurier" and was also to be heard in yesterday's "Report" that the first assumption in September 1988 was still 343 million schilling and that by successive increase in September 1992 already amounted to more than 750 million schilling. One more word to you, Minister of State. You have also spoken about the experts in the construction supervision, but unfortunately I have to come back to it again. I mean, it's also worrying – and one should continue to devote this question intensively – if, for example, the construction supervision is transferred by experts in some construction projects precisely to those offices and companies that were already responsible for design and planning. That is, I think, a matter that is very questionable. The fact that tenders have been made, which have hardly led to a best price finding, has also been mentioned several times. For example, if directorships have increased from 26 million schillings to 49 million schillings, this already indicates that there has been an insufficient call for tender which does not correspond to the actual execution. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All these questions and much more will certainly have to be considered in the future or answers will have to be found – especially by you, Minister. Now, where these abuses, this planning chaos and this loose and wasteful handling of tax money – and this is the end of the day: Tax money – you will have to give answers in the sense of and in charge of the people you and your government constantly ask for cash through savings packages.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10200	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10221	Ladies and gentlemen! The destruction of money by negligent construction of the public hand or semi-public hand already has method in Austria. This building scandal in Schwechat is also quite seamlessly attached to the large building scandals that have already existed in Austria: AKH, Technical University, Social and Economic University, Federal Office Building. Close to all public buildings there have been huge building costs. ==References====External links== There was, as far as I can remember, a tenfold excess of construction costs. The knitting pattern is the same everywhere, Minister! Indeed, the final calculation is several times higher than the offer, there is usually a too long duration of construction, and there is a lack of control. From this one sees that nothing has been learned at all. He said he had learned something from the director of the airport. Well, he can be congratulated for finally being able to learn something, but the cost of this learning process is certainly not justified. Mr. Klima! I do not really wonder that you are tired and that you are in favour of today's debate, because it must be boring for a socialist to hear again and again about scandals that are taking place in the socialist sphere. But I really wonder about your ease, about your laziness, with which you agree that at Flughafen Wien AG, at least 300 million schillings have been thrown away. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With the disabled you run after every schilling, as you do not fear at all to scrape the poorest of the poor in Austria, but in such scandals you sit there casually – I have seen what body language you have had when my colleague Stadler showed what economic damage is caused by this debilitating construction – and find nothing at all to say: We're going to do this right away! I'm making the same accusation to you from ÖVP. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] I'm bad already, I have to say. You had two of your employees on the Supervisory Board. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Are you responsible for Mr Böhmdorfer?]] I would also like to speak to Mr Böhmdorfer. I would like to say to you from the ÖVP that you are so generously smiling about this "lean" 300 million schilling about which the liberals are excited: It's really unexplainable to me why you don't see any reason to explain something, why? They still cover there, jump the socialists aside and make a common deal with them again. I do not think that the Austrians will understand this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not unusual how the management of the airport acted. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: AG!]] This is important to you, Minister. I didn't hear you made an intermediate call once, when it came to the accusations. But what legal form society has, that is important to you. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is an essential difference!]] Let me finish! You have the opportunity at any time to speak, Minister. I have a limited speaking time. Let me say my part, too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's not typical how the management responded. There has been walled and padded immediately; the liberals have once again been padded. It was said that this was a political torpedo against the new pier and the liberals wanted to get the whole thing back into the dirt. - We already know this wall. There are polio beans that have been used by red and black. That is why the political side is so vehemently walled. These policing beans sitting there are obviously used to generously dealing with the funds they have available to them, so that they react quite indignantly when someone dares to take them to responsibility. It really bothers me that these people are covered by you, Mr Minister, by the SPÖ and by the ÖVP. I have to say honestly: I was really shocked by what Mr Parnigoni said here. After all, he has passed away to say: You will now consider a disciplinary ad against Supervisory Board member Dr. Böhmdorfer, the Freedom Party... [[Abg. Parnigoni: I didn't say that! Listen to me!]] Sure you said that! I have written along, Mr Parnigoni. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I told the Bar to examine!]] You have also said that you will check whether you will not bring an action for credit damage. That's the most important thing for you. It is not important for you to be shown maladministration. As a people's representative... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't be nervous, Mrs. Procurator!]] I'm not nervous at all! First of all, I'm not a prosecutor, second I'm not nervous at all, but I'm standing here as a member of the Freeman... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why are you so upset?]] I am therefore excited because I cannot understand at all that you as a people's representative, who now have to take part, like the citizens, especially the families, the women and the disabled, do not find anything in that 300 million schilling simply swim down the stream, better the Danube. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I am aware of what you want to achieve with the threat of disciplinary adjudications, of complaints for credit damage: They want us to be made mouth-dead, that the whole thing is no longer discussed at all. That would be most pleasant for you. The ÖVP withdraws on formal points as well as the SPÖ. . We will then discuss if there is a report, it is said by the ÖVP. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone who has been in Parliament for a long time knows exactly how you want to discuss. They never want to discuss maladministration. We've seen it: When the Lucona Investigation Committee was set up, the two opposition parties – at the time the Greens and the Liberals – had to make a request seven times so that you were finally prepared by SPÖ and ÖVP to grant this investigation committee. It has behaved the same way in the Noricum Investigation Committee. So your need for information on maladministration in Parliament is so low that we can already call it zero. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Member of the Chamber of Commerce! They boast that Flughafen Wien AG carries 8 million passengers. – Yes, it would be the most sad thing if this shop were to make high deficits if the whole world was booming in travel. It is a matter of course that it carries out at least its business, its travel and transport activities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What makes me particularly angry about this matter is the fact that Flughafen Wien AG has no money for important things, for example in order to build noise protection facilities for the citizens living near Vienna-Schweichat Airport, which are really disturbed. It was never for this reason that, perhaps you do not know, Minister of the State, for example, the officials in border control receive a decent accommodation. At the time, Mr Lösnak, the Minister of the Interior, was still working for this purpose. The officials there had to work under truly catastrophic circumstances. There was never money for that. The officials there had to work in really unworthy Kojen at that time. You still have to do it now. But now, suddenly, hundreds of millions of schilling are thrown away without anyone even finding it necessary to talk about it. You're still telling us we can't talk about it as soon as we find out? I think it is really the task of representatives of the people as soon as they learn of such abuses, to bring it to the attention of those responsible. Minister! They had two officials sitting in the Supervisory Board. I can already imagine that it would be appropriate for you if we were to show the same laziness as you and say: We don't care! We're leaning back! Let's take a look at this! You also try to twist things with intention, because you don't want to talk about the matter. For example, Mr Parnigoni, the liberals, said that politics does not intervene in the management. That is what Mr Parnigoni said. This is a conscious twist of our words and our intentions! We do not want policy to intervene in business. But if there are already companies in the state sector or in the semi-governmental sector, at least those responsible should see that everything is going right there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I'll tell you what we want: We want proper conditions. We want proper control of the construction process. We want proper procedures to be put in place. We want nothing wasted. So simple is what we want! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want finally there to be a public construction in which socialists are not involved in any corruption, abuse or waste of money. Mr Parnigoni! It is really not very difficult what we want as a people's representative. We do not belong to those who watch citizens – families, students, the disabled, the officials – get the money out of their pockets and close their eyes when money is crushed on the other hand. You can't do that from us – despite all your threats, Mr Parnigoni!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10407	Mr Schöll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10428	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that it will be a bit boring for our finance ministers today if he constantly has to listen to this red and black sin mill here, although he told us only in the early morning hours, we will do everything better, we will not waste the money, we will save more, we will have to pay more. And now that! I understand that it is tiring that you get it on your nerves, and then one comes out and says, and the whole thing is happening on the bubbling of taxpayers, then I understand that this is really unpleasant, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One thing is, of course, certain, even if you say now that the Republic has already sold shares: The majority remains with the public. But we are missing the model function of the liberals, which we believe is lacking. Of course, in a day like today, it is extremely unpleasant to get such a negative example presented by the public hand, on a day when you have to tell the taxpayer: Dear friends, you have to pay more and get the belt tighter – we have had to listen to all the increases today! – That’s really lousy, Minister! You have my compassion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because the colleagues said: What's the matter with you guys? – We heard it on TV yesterday, we were able to read it in other media: Waste, slutting, free-handed forgiveness. It is always the same environment: whether at the A 4, at the east motorway, at the Danube ship "Mozart", at the DDSG or at the transport office. Motorway companies have been mentioned, quite rightly. It's always the same picture, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there's one more thing that's open: The actual accounts are out of date. None of us can say whether these will not be much worse than they are currently being discussed. Because Mr Höchtl said: Yes, then, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, if it turns out that you are wrong that the ORF is wrong that the newspapers are wrong, for it has not made so much difference at all? Dear colleague Höchtl! I would then tell you: That would be a miracle! And then you would be lucky that your three shares might be worth much more because they would then rise because the population would then have much more confidence in this society. On the other side I wonder: What will Christopher Reilly, the small shareholder representative, say about the investment fund? Is he gonna be right about how the construction board worked? Mr Klima said: The AG has been first introduced on the stock exchange. I'll give it to him! But how's it going now? Is it good to have to tell the shareholders definitely someday: Dear friends, it has actually cost much more than was necessary! We could have done other things with the funds – as has already been mentioned today – for example, we could have done environmental promotions. We have once discussed this in the Committee on Transport, Mr Federal Minister, that environmental measures would be quite in place. I can still remember that you even gave me the right thing when I said that it might be quite good to put on a total Austrian surface-driving cascade so that one can clearly determine from home where there are rest disorders of the arrants, where there may be noise problems where Immissions et cetera may occur. Unfortunately, this one is not finished. We have been dealing with this situation a long time ago – and now more and more often. Mr Partik-Pablé mentioned it earlier: You could have used this money – if you already want to spend it – much more meaningful! I'm sure of that. There are, of course, people who have the impression today that this construction project in Schwechat has been managed as if the money had been abolished. That is justified if hundreds of millions disintegrate in nothing! But you still boast and say out here: Please, don't be nervous! The hall is very nice, the lighting is beautiful. But there would also be a lot of other shortcomings that can be shown. I constantly hear criticism from the tourists who use our airport. Why were not finally escalators built during flight A and B, as it is international norm and usual? People can drag their suitcases, because they don't get the wagerls anyway. And if they get it, they'll have to pay for it. That's the mistake! One could have thought about it if one of the tourism really is at the heart of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is always the same situation, I think only of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Nolz: Wastes in its environment, sluttings, free-handed awards, cost explosions, longer construction times. I was horrified when I had to experience this report on television yesterday! It's always the same! Only it seems that there are no consequences. The construction projects are becoming increasingly expensive, there is a lack of calculations, false assessments, insufficient planning, and some of them do not even apply the ÖNORM. What is this business, ladies and gentlemen? Federal Minister! You can't just watch that! In my opinion, you have to intervene urgently if you ask for more taxes to be imposed on the population and for more to be saved, for otherwise the whole thing will go into emptiness! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to say to the ladies and gentlemen: As a parliamentarian, we feel very neglected. The media have received the information. I have to take note of all of this from television reports and newspaper reports. And there are still rulers who say: How can we talk about it? Let's wait until the Court of Auditors' work on it. Whoever has been a member of the Court of Auditors during the last legislative period knows that much of what has been done there in laborious, hours of work has gone down the stream! This has not even been discussed here in the House, although we have several times strangled it. And that's unfortunate! Today you are referring to the fact that the Court of Auditors will one day declare its opinion, so to speak, that the case will be finally concluded. These are simple and empty excuses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then the evildoer is sought. Of course, the offender is not to be found among the responsible, but it is asked: Yes, where can the untight web be here? Who could have told the ORF? Or: How does the "Kurier" or the other daily newspapers know? – This moves the ladies and gentlemen from the red-black coalition! But they are by no means concerned with how we can finally put these things off, as we have repeatedly demanded in recent years with all the scandals we have had to deal with here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this, the Austrian taxpayer is in the hands of Nolz and Schmelz, and he still has to be bound by Nolz by the savings package he then hung up as a backpack. And the same DDr. Nolz sits there as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and makes hundreds of millions – perhaps even more so; I am more pessimistic when I think about what scandals we had to deal with. Maybe it's even more, the final bill is still out. But of course you have already quickly paid out a number of amounts to architects et cetera. For what, I wonder. – Normally you should check the performance thoroughly, see if the work is qualified and if that corresponds to what you can then take over as a builder. And if you think that the prices are inadequately high, even if they have previously moved in an inappropriately high framework, which you have put up so high in the Supervisory Board, then the red pen has to be used, as with any other construction project in which public funds are in play. That's definitely the only right way. Dr. Schüssel said a few days ago that one should keep an eye on the whole thing, and he also stressed that one should do the necessary things quickly. Today, the EIA does not take the view that the necessary action should be taken quickly! Today we talk about it and say: Let us wait, this is a raw report, which cannot be discussed publicly, we do not know how to do so. Where's that quick action? Maybe you can give that to your Dr. Schussel with kind greetings. That might be a good thing to take him by the word. We liberals cannot join this classification in any way. We always say no when it comes to money destruction. We say no when it comes to concealment, and we also say no when it comes to concealing and planting citizens. And that's what it's all about today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But we also say no, Mr Federal Minister, when it comes to exploiting the citizens. On the one hand, you want to have the money from the citizens now, and on the other hand you look left to – or you are already tired – when such money is wasted. That's where you should act, Minister of State. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Now on the many Court of Auditors reports which have unfortunately not been discussed in plenary recently, although they have been discussed in the Committee. It is always about the same facts: It's a question of misalignment, of waste, of deceiving. Thank God for some here in the house – you are certainly relieved about it – this has not been discussed so far. However, we have demanded that this work was not in vain, because of its role as a model for the population, it must be put into plenary very quickly. And we're not going to go down with our demand. We will keep you in front of the mirror until you finally realize that there must be an end to this constant shortage of means of taxation! As long as these immemorialities are shown, as we have, unfortunately, repeatedly here in plenary in recent years, not only in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, but also here in plenary, a lot of scandals, have been seen, until they have been dropped. And whoever believes here, he goes on with cover-up, I can only say to him: Sooner or later, citizens will undoubtedly be made aware that they do not have the right representation with such a government, and they will all elect you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10575	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10597	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, I do not share the view, Minister of State, that you are sluggish in following this debate. I think you're dreaming of tomorrow's football game, which you're going to attend, like I heard, or the newspaper. I also assume that this matter will be a somewhat more pleasant one for you, however, I think you must make it happen that the liberals here show maladministration. It is obvious with HTM, DDSG, "consumer" not enough, with AMAG not enough, with the East motorway not enough, there is still a hall south of Vienna Airport AG that has managed to bring with it a cost increase of probably – a final billing amount is not yet available – just over 100 percent, namely from 343 million schilling to proud 755 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! A load package that is being used today for the population is opposed to that. It is a burden on the population, it is thought to be for the citizen. There is another scandal in this situation. The government parties are trying to put this under the carpet as if nothing had happened at all. There's a crime-offering reverse. Where did the "evils" come from? Freedom to provide these documents? This is essential and important for you. They do not ask how one can actually eliminate this maladministration, which has been shown here, as we can achieve that this will no longer happen in the future. But some of my previous speakers have already found that you do not want to. You can't and don't want. And that's why it's probably good and right to assume that this doesn't really make you a headache. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Nolz, who is responsible for the load package, or at least for the spagate, which is tied around, and was highly responsible for the content of this load package, is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Board of Directors of the Flughafen Wien AG. If I recall Mr Wurmitzer's speech now, I must say that it is obviously only a small adjustment that has taken place in many areas. There is talk of missing timetables – I suppose a re-adjustment – of missing construction schedules, a re-adjustment – of missing partial benefits, a re-adjustment. That is to say, it is even so far that, in principle, a completely inadequate and incorrect assessment of needs has taken place, which in the end has led to an expansion of the planning tasks of more than 40 percent. The cost increase of initially 343 million schilling around proud 412 million schilling has not been calculated – a re-adjustment according to colleagues Wurmitzer. The procurement directives have been violated. Higher fees have been disbursed. In the field of house engineering, there is a re-adjustment of more than 11 million schillings, while the architect has a re-adjustment of more than 5 million schillings – 5 million schillings on the fees and fees regulations! Let me make a comparison – I am allowed to do so. In times like this, a "child garden billion" is spoken of. As can be seen from the draft budget, a reduction has been made. The amount is supposed to be 600 million schilling. On the other hand, there is an extra edition, a re-adjustment of over 400 million schilling. But one cannot clearly assign this to the field of kindergarten, of course we can also take up the area of the disabled who are burdening you today, so I address the ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition. And you believe that the citizens and, of course, we are free to move on to the agenda and not to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you know very well what free-handed giving means. That is, an award takes place without making a correct mass determination and – that is, the decisive – without having made a single price fixing. That is to say, misuse of a lot of money, which is very likely to be deprived of taxpayers and citizens, because dividends are less disbursed. The state has lower revenue, and all the extra taxes you think are up to the citizen. It doesn't bother you that the door and gate are open. There is a conversion of the perpetrator-sacrifice, and this has been very well tried by Mr Parnigoni. He did not address this urgent question in substance, he simply referred to it as "provoked theatre". Over 400 million Schilling extra expenditure, which has been made in a very incomprehensible way, is a "polite-theater"! In fact, I am asking whether it was appropriate to: Mr Parnigoni put the threat to the prosecutor and spoke of disciplining measures. Is that the way you want to go? I know you have experience in this field, I know you've been moving in this field for a long time. But we, ladies and gentlemen, will work to ensure that you do not continue this course in this form, as you are obviously used to for almost 26 years now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We're going to find out all these maladministrations. Mr Höchtl has spoken of a good balance sheet, of a good economic development, and he has indeed said that he wishes several such undertakings, i.e. undertakings, to discard profit. – I just added that there would be nothing against a higher distribution of a dividend. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The abuse of public money cannot be justified by saying: It's all in order. There are then decisions. Mr Wurmitzer has made recent decisions so that the difference to the current final amount is as low as possible, but that is all the make-up. In this way one can no longer keep the citizen to fool, Ladies and gentlemen, let us say that! Finally, end with these practices in your black and red pro-pore areas, which you want to be protected, but I can guarantee you today that this will be a failure! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr Kaufmann mentions that there can and will not be any further damage and therefore the urgent request is not necessary, I would like to say here that a bill has not been made up to this day, ladies and gentlemen. If not charged, then the abuse is still open door and gate, and we do not want to allow that. We liberals will try to stop that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! You want to calm or seal your old, wooden red-black coalition ship, as it is so beautiful. That means you want to stop the holes. They want to eliminate the leaks, so to speak, slowing down the flow of information that comes in. I'll tell you one thing: The fact that the ship, your coalition ship, is still scurrying, you will no longer get caught up in this way, with your procedure and the way you behave in your protected proportions, there will be another fraction of this House that will bring the government ship back to the fore. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10709	Mr Dr. Haider has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10730	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It was very interesting to attend this debate today and follow through on how the arguments were presented by the individual political groups. It didn't take long, because one started to build dams and according to the method: It's all not true! As in previous times, once again from the principle of questioning, disputing and rejecting everything. Ms. Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat immediately went up to the gallery, Dr. Kastelic, the "black" director, who has listened carefully from above, comforted for a long time the debate so that the political relationship becomes visible here too. The SPÖ said: It has already been damaged, so what are we going to do here? – It is an unlikely "logic" in the whole! At the same time it has been said that only Haider's lawyer can stand behind it, he must be the evildoer. – It is not about the hundreds of millions of schillings that have been sprung there, but about making someone mouth dead who may have provided information. It has always happened, at all times, that powerful information, information and transparency have been prevented. It was once, Minister Klima, the great idea of the party chairman Kreisky, with whom he has giantd: Transparency in politics! – You are now going the reverse way again. The turtles have done so by not incorporating windows into their homes, so that nothing can penetrate outside. The GDR has built a wall around the citizens, so that nothing gets out. And you also try to suffocate with your powerful red-black Nomenklatura, from the outset any approach of opening, transparency, control in the germ. And that's what we're going to blame you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For we have, in agreement with all the parties, Mr Federal Minister, implemented a reform of the Rules of Procedure in this Parliament, which has included improving the Minister's obligation to provide information to Parliament in respect of those establishments in which the Confederation is involved and not being worsened. And if you start to argue with us now about your obligation to provide information to Parliament when it is a public undertaking with a federal participation, then the President-in-Office of the Council will have to make a detailed interpretation of the new Rules of Procedure. But it can't be that you yourself give the impression that you have an interest in covering something. Federal Minister of Climate! We have actually met you so far as someone is willing to approach things openly. Turn around! Walls You're not in! Give Parliament the information! Not you've been wasting the millions, but your underruns who didn't inform you! They should take responsibility for them – and not participate here and be a co-helper! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Supervision rights – what do they use? – The Austrian will ask himself: What is the use of a supervisory right? – In the National Bank, the Supervisory Commissioners of the Finance Minister are sitting. There has been a growing maladministration for decades. Supervisory Commissioners, bank supervision – you would also have the opportunity to get information there. At no time did this system work, not in the "BAWAG Caribbean", not in the "Atomic" story, in the "consumer" argument with BAWAG. It seems that this early warning system does not make any sense at all, except that a few officials may still receive a possible nice additional earnings from a few thousand schillings if they are kindly assigned to this supervisory activity. It can't be. There is always the attitude to say: As long as the Court of Auditors' report is not available, we are not talking about these things. – Minister of State! Remember how many debates on suspicions have already taken place in this Parliament. We have documents here. We have an Court of Auditors raw report, we have an expert opinion commissioned by the Supervisory Board. You know that very well, because that's what you have. And if you've read it through, you know very well that you've been trying against better knowledge and conscience here, even though there is a need for action. That is not to say that we want to assign you the sole debt. Everyone tried – except for the Greens – to vote in the choir of the preventers and toilers. I remember when I was a young Member, that the ÖVP has scandalized the dog-million-thing of Mrs. Leodolter and Mr. Hannes Androsch – a "dog-million-thing" because the contract was controversial! Today, it is walled to a balance sheet, according to which 200 million schillings were freely granted. 100 million schilling at Leodolter were scandalous, with 200 million schilling being covered. – That’s how the times have changed with you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then you send us out as a "capture hunter" as a flying "capture hunter" Mr. Wurmitzer, who is to stop the liberal criticism. So please forgive us the next time! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He hurts you!]] He's supposed to make arguments about why it's been covered and not discovered. He makes a self-therapy of his shark complex every time he speaks, instead of using arguments here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Haider has a wormitzer complex!]] I can't believe that Mr Wurmitzer must constantly treat himself at the speaker's desk, after he cannot overcome the fact that at the last National Council election even in his municipality in which he is mayor, the liberals have become the strongest political group. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: The Wormitzer knows you! He knows you!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to go here and say that all of this is not true and that is not true. Federal Minister! I can tell you that a few months ago, before the National Council election, there were bitter debates here in the House on the question of HTM. Your group also walled at the time. They were already ministers; You have told the employees of the HTM factory there in Schwechat, you guarantee them that the jobs will be preserved. You have now felt obliged to turn on the Court of Auditors in this HTM story because you yourself have a bad conscience. You should have made sure that, if we put something to the discussion here, we would not have done so in the empty space. And this HTM story is expanding. At least this is about 800 million schillings, which are shot from the backlogs of a state monopoly company, which today is insolvent, is losing jobs that are no longer competitive, and of which one should have said that this 800 million schilling would have been needed to reorganise the budget. With 800 million schillings, you wouldn't have had to grab the family, the single-holder, the care payers so deeply in the bag if you had stepped in in time. And that's what we want to achieve: Act in good time to secure money that belongs to citizens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The The same was true of the National Bank, the same was at the traffic office, the same was with the DDSG, only then always swims the money because you don't believe it at first, and afterwards the taxpayers have to take over the default liability for it. We therefore criticise the fact that someone like Mr Nolz, who is at least the leading tax official in your ministry who has invented the tax package in detail, cannot keep an order even where he is responsible. – 350 million schillings in excess of construction costs, as far as they are now recognizable, are not small. It is touching to read on page 25 in the 1994 Annual Report of Vienna Airport International: In the interests of efficient controlling, a project management was set up for these construction projects, whose tasks are the coordination between user specifications, needs-oriented, customer-oriented execution and compliance with the specified deadline and cost framework. An "efficient controlling": Where? – Two years of overrun, 350 million schilling in the area of construction costs, which has been examined and reviewed so far, although you have already been informed in 1991 by a Court of Auditors report of the problems there. That is why we have now become an initiative! With veterinary medicine instead of 300 million schilling 1 billion schilling costs, for public printing, 600 to 700 million schillings are taken out of reserves to finance a senseless project that competes with the private sector, eliminates jobs and removes their reserves. And you need to get the taxpayer more money out of the cash register. If you have said this morning, everyone has to save, please tell those in the state companies: Everyone must save, including your Supervisory Boards, also your Executive Directors, including those in the companies for which we have taken responsibility here in the High House because they belong to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is really bad if, in a project for which an amount of 700 million schilling is estimated, it is stated in the opinion that more than 50 percent have been granted free of charge, i.e. among friends. There's no transparency. That's not a few schillings. You have to go to the Council of Ministers because of every million people and you have to justify yourself, and you have to pay for it. Your underrunners 200 million schilling in individual cases free of charge! It can't work well. Architects who have never participated in an invitation to tender have received this planning order and have 60 percent of the planning costs they have charged, interestingly already at the beginning of the project – 60 percent! – get, they got the honor to 60 percent before they did a stroke! There is planning, tendering and local construction supervision in one hand, something which there must not be in public projects at all because it opens the door to abuse. It has been approved by such high-level architects that the building, which is now under discussion, has not been allowed to accommodate at all, but has taken over another building within the framework of the airport operating company and has secretly transferred and accommodated millions of major architects there under the supervision of the Supervisory Board, surrounded by the Executive Board. Mr Minister, if that is not a reason for you to intervene! If you go to the prosecutor and say so, it can't be done that the architects' fees are being pushed back and forth on a shift station, that in projects that have not been planned, only because you get so high a fee for the actual project! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Consider the example of construction site general costs! There is an increase of 537 percent in general construction site costs – 537 percent of construction site cost increase! – because you forgot to make a ground check. This is the most normal thing in the world, that when you start a construction object, in a dimension such as an airport, you first make a ground investigation. You do not put a bridge into a meadow either, without examining the basis of whether the foundation on this ground will hold at all. - No, you didn't do that at all! Or the underfloor fire, which is very important in the airport area. There are already many projects that have been carried out there. It's estimated at 8.6 million, it'll cost 80.8 million schilling. I'm really wondering: Who controls there? Who's getting in there? Or construction supervision. Local construction supervision earns 100,000 S net a month. In this institution, many have deserved themselves curtailed and low – with the result that nothing works at all. We are criticizing this, Mr Minister, because if you had had these 300 million schillings more in your cash register, if you could have awarded more construction orders by 300 million schillings, you would have secured between 400 and 500 jobs per year with these 300 million schillings instead of turning millions of greedy companies into revenge with their architects and civil servants – at a time when there is an increasing unemployment in which you are proclaiming the fight against unemployment and in reality doing everything to ensure that those who don't have to get millions, and those who want to work, sit around at home!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10854	Mr Haigermoser is now on the floor. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10875	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! Things are on the table – irreconcilable. Nevertheless, a small reference to today's debate, because a person has fascinated me especially in today's debate, not so much the Minister of State, who, as we have already heard, is fighting with sleep today, but: Wormitzer, the just man, worm-itzer, the souled, worm-itzer, unafraid for the citizen fighting, putting himself into action, sitting on the wheeling. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bravo Wurmitzer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He hurts you! He knows you!]] I see that the ÖVP has recognized the irony of my remarks. We really came to the Wormitzer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We came to the Wormitzer. Wormitzer animated me, motivated me to speak at the end of my speech. Perhaps you could now act as an animation in the needy Carinthian tourism industry, perhaps you would have more success than you had at the speaker's desk today, Mr Wurmitzer! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Wurmitzer added: Jobs would be secured, so many flights would be completed in Schwechat. We say yes, this airport of Schwechat is also important to us. Wurmitzer has thus today held a notorious holdet-the-the-the-the-go, made a failed distraction maneuver, for it is obvious that Wurmitzer doesn't care that what was originally supposed to cost 350 million schilling, as it is today, now costs 750 million schilling. Which world do you live in, colleague Wurmitzer? Certainly not in the case of Mr and Mrs Österreicher, because if you were to live in this world, you would have given another speech. In your community, the citizens who experience you at firsthand have already come upon your sycamores. There too you came to the Wormitzer, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What does it matter, ladies and gentlemen, these many millions who have obviously gone down the stream here? We are asking what Wurmitzer said that we should not be discussed until perhaps a report of the Court of Auditors has been presented. It is attacked that obviously a Green Member would already have a raw report in his hand. This is not the subject, it is also a subject, but not the subject that we are interested in today, Mr Wurmitzer. - You tried to divert from the track. Well, that's not fun. The whole thing was Baldrian for the cat, Mr. Wurmitzer! That's all your word message was! Now we come to some facts, Mr Wurmitzer, to the programmed building debacle. Just eight points, all not worthy of discussion, free to get to Wurmitzer, but under the carpet, best to hide under the speaker's mouth, since nothing can come to the public, according to the motto of the old emperor: Yes, is that what it is? – Can we discuss this? – Yes, we can discuss this as long as there are free Members in this House, and that will be the case for a long time, and we will be talking more about these things, Mr Wumitzer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Free-handed award of the planning contract without competition. – The reason for this is permissible, taking into account specific requirements for planners, but problematic. – Wormitzer says: Populism of the liberals. Point two: Specific order bases of the builder are missing, which will create the greatest planning uncertainty at the beginning. – Let's wait for the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, says Wurmitzer. Thirdly, The method of drawing up the basic programme announced by the planner is not fully realized. – Wormitzer: Half that bad! Fourth: No order security exists due to the absence of a definitive cost framework of the customer. – Wormitzer: There's nothing you can do! Fifth, you open a bottle Cost assessments are not prepared by the planner in a professional way. - How's S' doing this? – Wormitzer in the original tone. Sixteenths: The constantly increasing cost estimates due to false basic investigations do not cause any reactions from the building authorities. – Hollodrio, sold my Gwand, driving me in Himml! – Wormitzer! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] 7th: Existing planning services are made late and incomplete, but fully calculated and paid. - There's nothing you can do, according to Wurmitzer. Eighth and last: Inadequate and delayed planning services and coordination errors result in significant cost increases and delays in time, but remain essentially unanswered. – We will eventually discuss the Court of Auditors report, says Wurmitzer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Renewal hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Wormitzer has been discovered and discovered. We say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We say: Here and today, the liberals will not only play, but will also present them in fact. We're looking at the tax schilling, and that's not even going to hinder worms.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e10969	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We are now coming to a vote, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenstingl and others on behalf of the Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11010	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11034	Mr President. Minister! Back to the mountain law novel. Today's 3rd. Novelle on the mountain law, Mr. Böhacker, does not concern the "own thing" – regrettably; but I come to the conclusion – but concerns mining, mining, mass raw material extraction, mineral mining – all the enemy images of today's prosperity society. [[Abg. Böhacker: On your own?]] I very much welcome it – and I welcome Mr Grabner's contribution to the debate – that we will decide with today's amendment a right of participation of the communities, but not create a right of prevention. A right of prevention would mean that nothing would be possible at all in this country. Regrettably, the acceptance of interventions into nature for mass raw material extraction is so low that there is no political support for an extension or at all a new site and, due to negligent resistance, the political pressure is inevitably generated towards prevention. That is why I think that today's solution to a formal party position for the communities is well justified. Much has already been said about co-determination and citizens' initiatives. In 1993 we created a very comprehensive concept of party participation. It has been shown, however, that it is not a question of co-determination, but, when it comes to decomposition, only prevention is recommended – unfortunately. The displeasure that has already been expressed against the mountain law mainly concerns those sites that can be subsumed under gravel pits and quarries. In principle, however, I would like to make it clear here that sand, gravel and gravel as such are not subject to the mountain law. The mountain law concerns only certain, very concretely defined high-quality minerals, which are not in excess and have particular economic importance. These minerals, if they are mass raw materials, are of course also used as building raw materials, but they do not occur in excess, do not grow and are mainly site-bound. You can only cut down where these raw materials are present. Unfortunately, however, no one wants to have a destruction near him. At the time, the mountain law novels in 1990 brought an extension of the scope to limestone, mergel, ton, quartz rock, magnesite and basalte. Whoever calls this novelle 1990 – it has been decided in 1989 – is subject to a huge error. In 1989 Fekter was politically a no-name municipality in Attnang-Puchheim, had no influence at all on this extension in the mountain law and at that time the Parliament had never seen from within. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I agree that something has happened here, which some of the Members were not satisfied with afterwards, is unfair. The extension of the Berggesetz resulted from the assessment process and from a professor's Curia of the Montan University of Leoben, which at the time qualified certain minerals as included in the Berggesetz. The assignment was based on material arguments, and this distinction is also constitutional in accordance with Mr Anschober's remarks; the Constitutional Court confirmed this in 1992. To Mr Parnigoni: I am opposed to a reclassification of the mineral raw materials in the mountain law according to the criterion of actual use – for example for cement extraction – because actual use as a criterion would lead to much, much less objectivity in the allocation than now the criterion of the nature of the mineral. The fact that mass raw materials such as quartz and lime have been present in the mountain world since 1990 is an international practice, which is easy to understand in international montanistic statistics. The economic importance of these industrial minerals is undisputed: In 1994, the stone and ceramic industry generated 33.3 billion and employed 21,000 workers. About 10 tons of sand, gravel and gravel per capita per year are processed in all Western industrialized countries. In addition to water, this raw material is thus the most important quantity of our economy. Although a shortage would increase the price – which some specifically drive forward – but would cause significant damage to the construction industry as a whole. It is also unsatisfactory for me to admit that the production of sand, gravel and gravel is partly subject to mountain law and partly to the industrial order. About one third of the holdings are in mountain law, two thirds are incorporated in the trade order. In my view, any degradation – everyone who starts digging in the countryside because of the location-bound and safety-technically specific requirements – should be granted to the mining industry. Mr Colleague Auer welcomed this not for security reasons, but because of the municipal party's position. I am also responsible for maintaining the federal competence of Bergwesen. It shall be in accordance with Article 10(1). 1 paragraph 10 is incorporated into the Federal Constitution, and Bergwesen as a federal competence has already been clearly clarified in a dispute of competence and assigned to the federal government. I therefore welcome the harmonisation in the mountain sector, which has already been mentioned several times, with regard to the mass raw materials, a harmonisation of the plant law when it comes to the reduction – which I could not imagine as bureaucratic in the trade regulations; mountain law is a huge burden for the farms in this respect – but I believe that the mountain authorities can effectively control and approve the degradations. It is wrong what Mr Anschober mentioned several times today and yesterday announced very much in a press conference: Austria is the only country in which mass raw materials are in mountain law. On the contrary, also the Federal Republic of Germany has stones, earth and industrial minerals in mountain law. The German Federal Council adopts a law on this subject last morning. It is therefore based on Austria. Mrs Aumayr – and also Mr Anschober, who is not here now! The article in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung", quoted by colleagues Anschober, according to which old GDR law has been condemned, referred to the difference in mountain law between mountain-free land treasures and land-based minerals. Once the public hand is responsible for these land resources, in the other case the property owners. Both materials are, however, dealt with in mountain law. This difference was probably too high for Mr Anschober, or I have the impression that he is a specialist in half-truths. As a specialist in half-truths or false reports, he also proves himself if he holds press conferences with the ÖGNU and proclaims there loudly that 40 percent of our federal territory is threatened with mining. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Currently, there are old and new areas for profit and approval in Austria of 0.167 percent of the Austrian area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] Mrs Langthaler! Of these 0.167, 0.152 were already old permits. That's 90 percent. To say here that all of Austria is a single degradation is, in my opinion, somewhat slantly populist. Finally, I would like to point out that the legitimate wishes of the sand and gravel industry have unfortunately not been included in this novel. In particular, there was no deregulation in the investment procedure, in the administrative procedure, taking into account the degradation of the warehouses. All these wishes are provided, in a concrete proposal, for. Unfortunately, however, our coalition partner has not been able to get through to take into account the wishes of the economy. The infinite history of Berggesetz will have to be continued for this reason alone, with the many procedures in mountain law being deregulated and the annual main business plan to be extended to a five-year review period. It is not to be seen why there is only one procedure in the trade regulations, in mountain law up to mining four procedures plus annual main business plans. Today I have been accused of lobbyism. Unfortunately, my influence in the mountain law is too low because no one wish of the economy concerned has been taken into account in this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11099	The next speaker is Member Dr. Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11121	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is a real pleasure to be able to speak directly after the colleague Fekter on this matter, because of the fact that she spoke here as a member of our house, of course, but at the same time could bring in the authenticity of lobbyism, and that is valuable. It is interesting to see how someone here is committed to reform or partly even to the reconstruction of legislation, not even realizing that he speaks too much on his own and would have been well advised not to hold this speech personally, because in this matter one sometimes becomes blind to the real problem. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Bergrecht is an old legal estate. It comes from a time when the trade order has not even existed, and of course it has many elements that are different from our current understanding of law and, in particular, from procedures. Therefore, there is necessarily a disharmony here, which can be overcome, simply by considering what are the actual criteria of distinction, which may be differentiated in mining in relation to other trades, and where there are no such differences at all. This may be the site question, for example, because of course certain aspects of mining do not tolerate variable locations, but other plant settlements can be varied much more widely – even if not at all, because it also has to be taken into account infrastructure aspects, environmental aspects and so on. But it's not like a day building in the Voitsberg-Köflach area, for example, because brown coal is located where it lies, and only there can it be mined. Of course, then, every intention to say that this lignite reduction may take place elsewhere would be completely unacceptable. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very well done!]] On the other hand, the construction of any factory is quite variable, it does not have to take place in a very specific place. There are, therefore, good reasons why there is a different way of regulating certain things here. But that still does not necessarily mean that this must be done in different laws, it could also be found in various chapters of a modern, 21st century. In the 20th century, the industrial order was liberalized by the possibility of addressing both specificities and generalities. The real problem, however, is always the operating facilities, and in the case of mining, Mrs Fekter has done so, different accesses are to be taken into account, for example, on ownership. The differences between mountain-free or land-based and so on are aspects that do not exist in other trades. But to conclude from this that it is therefore reasonable that only what Mrs Colleagues' trade is to take place in a particularly protected form, namely in a legal form, which gives people virtually no opportunities, is not necessarily logical. That's lobbyism. Mrs Fekter also pointed out that, in the area of quartz and lime, if this were not regulated in mountain law, it might be a shortage. In this respect, she has contradicted herself. She had previously argued that quartz and lime, because they are not everywhere and are therefore rare, belong to mountain law. At the same time, if they were not in mountain law, they would be rarer. These are considerations that only someone who speaks very strongly on his own and who is very affected by these things. I therefore believe that it is a step forward if we decide today that the municipalities should have a party position in the sense of the requests made, that we should not be satisfied with this progress, because it is only a first step in the right direction. The Federal Minister, before the interruption, has carried out the urgent question that he also believes that we should have uniform investment rights here. But it will be the question whether we will then also agree with it in terms of content. But at least once one is formally so far as to admit that there should be a real reform here. This is certainly a step forward, because only because the mountain world has a great tradition, the miners stand for its traditions and the Montan University is an integral part of this tradition, it is not necessary to have a special law too. Special rules for specific problems do not necessarily mean a special law. So I mean, if we're not uncaptured, then we're going to be legal history or stone, and that wouldn't be good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11164	Mr Doppelmüller. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11186	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am largely in line with the statements made by my previous speaker, and I would like to say that, although we Socialist Members have been quite stormy against the existing mountain legislation, I would like to try to remain here objectively and fairly. I have listened to this debate in great detail today, I have fully informed myself, and I believe that it is really this tension between a mining plant that is just about to break down, and concerned citizens who actually want to prevent the degradation for any reason that may well exist. There is, of course, from both sides a proper portion of distrust that has developed. I am also convinced today that, in this form, the novice of the mountain law in 1990, which I have probably decided to do so, was a misappropriation. We should, hopefully, learn from the reforms announced by Minister Ditz, in fact, that the disadvantaged citizens or the citizens who believe that they are affected will have their right, so to speak, that, at the same time, the operation will be said in much shorter time: You can do something! Or: You can't do anything! I also believe that Mr Anschober's presentation has not been very helpful today to have a reasonable discussion. A number of figures have been put forward by Mr Fekter and show how to manipulate. I also do not think that the law is such a pure placebo law that we decide here today. I think it's a building block, it's certainly not a sufficient building block, but after all, this law as a placebo gives the communities participation and participation in the mountain law process, which they have not had so far. The mistake of beauty is that the possibility of appeal ends, as it were, with the Supreme Mountain Lord, Minister Ditz, and that it is not possible to go to the Administrative or Constitutional Court after that. Of course, I am not pleased – in this I also see a weakness of this novel, which we decide to do – when more or less expressed by the Scottish people in the newspaper "Sand and Kies": We can be calmed down, it can extend the procedure by one to two years, but the prevention of a project by the municipality is de facto not possible. I'm both hurting. It hurts me if, so to speak, something is to be prevented for the sake of preventing it, and I am also hurt when procedures are extended by one to two years. This is our problem, which we have most of in the areas of environmental protection, which, of course, all sides are suspicious. It is also particularly evident in the discussion on the mountain law that a lot is already being done with populism. I would perhaps like to point this out in an example that I have also looked at more precisely because it has been in the newspapers in recent times. It is the planned gravel mining in Langenstein. It's on the Danube. There's a Ruin Spielberg. Some will know that I am particularly interested in monument protection and similar things, but the fact is that the operator can prove that this gravel is being mined on a corn field is not affected. And now it comes: They shall draw up a total of eight opinions, including those requested by project opponents, and all opinions shall assess the project positively. You are ready to make these opinions available. I do not have these opinions – perhaps they lie too – but what I have is, for example, an opinion by the environmental lawyer Wimmer, who is also highly appreciated by Greens. I think the man's a lot, too. It is quite open to public interest and nature conservation here and is ready if certain requirements are also met in addition to consent here. Nevertheless, it is prevented. There is a state council in Upper Austria, which is – I can remember – there was no procedure at all there – before a few hundred people stood in the sky and said he would prevent that. He is responsible for water law. And here, in this case, there is obviously a positive opinion of the responsible officials – and the Council of State has adopted a negative decision. – I don't like that either! [[Abg. Aumayr: How in Lambach!]] All right, all right. [[Abg. Aumayr: But in the sense of the environment!]] So in terms of the environment, the action of the National Freedom Council in Upper Austria, Mrs Aumayr, is not tangible. However, I think that one should also deal with such problems objectively and not always jump up and, in principle, assume authorities that they are doing bad here. Nevertheless, I say: I am not satisfied with this mountain authority because I also realize that it has very strong impact on the impact side, and we were not well advised in 1990 to bring it in here. And the distrust of the people against the so-called gravel barons is not entirely unwarranted either. Those who leave the motorway in my district in Reggau today and drive to Vöcklabruck pass by a beautiful gravel pit that has a double advantage. There the gravel was extracted and surely sold well, then a excavator lake was created there, and the reason was sold again in small plots – for good money. And, of course, people notice that too. Again: I believe that this novelle today is a kind of further small repair step towards what happened to us in 1990. I also looked at this harmonisation study on the mountain law in a summary. The Federal Minister assured us today that he would be willing to make a complete revision here, and that he would be considered to have this mountain right incorporated into a completely new plant law, as a sub-chapter of his own. That would have happened a lot. Only should we not deal with this task with excessive emotions, not populism and also God's will, not false numbers, but accept the offer and consistently develop a modern, new work of law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11239	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Mr rapporteur, would you like a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft federal law, which amends the mountain law, including the title and entry into 68 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. – Mrs Frieser, are you taking a visible part in the vote or are you invisible? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is in any case the majority. The request has been accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – That too is the majority. The draft was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 69 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. – This request has also been adopted by a majority. 6. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (36 of the Supplements): Chemical Weapons Convention Enforcement Act – CWKG (73 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11306	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item: Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (36 of the Supplements): Chemical Weapons Convention Enforcement Act – CWKG (73 of Supplements). The rapporteur is Mr Kiermaier. I ask him to open the debate with his report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11326	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I bring the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (73 of the Supplements) on the Government template (36 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Implementation of the Convention of 13. January 1993 on the prohibition of the development, manufacture, storage and use of chemical weapons and on the extermination of such weapons (CWKG Chemical Weapons Convention Enforcement Act). The Chemical Weapons Convention is one of the few international disarmament agreements that prohibits the use, development, production, acquisition, storage and retention of chemical weapons of mass destruction for all Contracting States and provides for efficient control. Furthermore, I make the following print error correction: In § 12 para. 2 last sentence it has right to ring "in executive council. Art. VIII C.C.K. Furthermore, in the second paragraph of the Annex, it is appropriate to say "follow alkyl groups". As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council should give the draft legislation attached to the written committee report constitutional approval. Mr President. As there are speeches, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11364	Ladies and gentlemen! You heard the report, including the correction. For this debate, it was established that per group a speaker with a speaking time of 10 minutes and a second speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes is speaking. As the first Member, Mr Scheibner spoke. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11391	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this matter is largely a consensual matter, I think we need not lose too many words here. The ratification of this Chemical Weapons Convention is certainly an important contribution to general disarmament. In addition to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the ban on bacterial weapons, this is a very important decision of the international community of States, a clear signal of the aggressment of all chemical weapons, an attempt at at least the attempt to destroy the existing chemical weapons and to stop the production and trade of chemical weapons. How successful such conventions are, it may be, because, of course, the appropriate control usually works well only where it would not be necessary, in states with democratic orders, in countries where these weapons would not be applied anyway. In other countries where these democratic structures are not present, this is all more doubtful. Nevertheless: Of course, my group will agree to this request, but with a restriction, ladies and gentlemen. It is really strange that we are constantly getting proposals for discussion and for voting, which provide for the establishment of any advisory council. This establishment of advisory committees, which are supposed to control, monitor or organise anything, which could, in fact, be made equally good, more efficient and cost-effective by the ministry responsible, is apparently an old Austrian disease, because these advisory boards are usually only there for any people to get busy with it. This should not be a criticism of the organizations provided for there, but I would just ask whether it is necessary, in addition to the representatives of the Minister responsible, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, then representatives of the Federal Chancellor's Office, to appoint representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State Defense, a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Association of Industry, representatives of the countries, and, of course, for each of these representatives a replacement member to be appointed to the Advisory Board so that, if one or other of these important people fails, the full presence can and will nevertheless be guaranteed. It is also really interesting that this law has been cast into 13 paragraphs and in at least 2 paragraphs, even very large, is concerned with this advisory board. So, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with this law, but in this sense I am tabling an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] We would therefore like to remove this advisory board, because we believe that this is a waste of resources, including resources from the stakeholders involved, which should make better use of their work for the real tasks of these representations. The Minister of Economic Affairs has our confidence that he will be able to implement this Convention on Chemical Weapons in his own place.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11464	The amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and will be included in the discussion. The next speaker was Mr Amon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11489	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can make it similar short after it is actually a matter of consensus, and I am pleased that Mr Scheibner has also announced that the FPÖ will agree. Since the Chemical Weapons Convention was ratified in August of last year, it is now only the result, as it were, of actually adopting this implementing law. Without a doubt, this Chemical Weapons Convention is the most important multilateral agreement in addition to the Nuclear Weapons Non-Proliferation Treaty and in addition to the ban on bacteriological Weapons. The budget of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for the additional financial expenditure. I believe that even if Mr Scheibner has legitimate doubts about the disarmament of all the signatory states, he must never give up the effort to disarm, and I therefore ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11531	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11552	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention on Chemical Weapons, to which we now adopt an implementing law, is one of the few international disarmament agreements which prohibits all States Parties from doing the activities mentioned above and also provides for effective controls. Compliance with the Chemical Weapons Convention is subject to various provisions, consisting of restrictions in dealing with the toxic chemicals and pre-products specified in the Annex to the Chemical Weapons Convention, a reporting system and a control system. The relatively simple production of chemical weapons contrasts with far-reaching control possibilities. The Review Commission shall draw up annual reports from the Member States on fundamental and systematic reviews. A short while ago, the story of how this Convention came to be. Already in 1968, following the conclusion of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, long international negotiations began on the complete aggressment of all chemical weapons. Its repeated commitment, especially in the 1980s, and the decision of the great powers to reach a global agreement here, then created the basis for an international agreement, which was solemnly signed in January 1993 by more than 130 States. Austria was also there, of course. Well, a problem is still happening here: If the international chemical trade is affected by the Chemical Weapons Convention only about 0.3 percent, the third world countries in particular feel this control and the monitored data exchange as a strong restriction of their economic expansion. It is a misunderstanding that will only be resolved by increased confidence-building measures. The safety benefit for Austria is derived from the global complete destruction of all chemical weapons, as well as from the control and the resulting limited movement of goods of the intermediate products necessary for the manufacture of chemical weapons. The implementing law, which we adopt today, regulates the authorisation and reporting obligations for permitted activities and contains lists of these chemicals. It provides for its own form and applications and approvals and, of course, this advisory board, which was referred to earlier. Well, I have nothing against this advisory board, on the contrary. It is often very good in such difficult and critical areas when a larger group comes together and controls these measures. At the beginning of the year, more than two thirds of the necessary authorisations for the entry into force of this Chemical Weapons Agreement were fixed. In view of the final stage of approval, it is possible that the last determination of the 65 ratifications submitted will be fixed in the middle of this year. The Convention is expected to enter into force at the end of this or the beginning of next year. But one thing is finally correct to me a little thoughtful and also sad: Neither the United States nor Russia are among the Convention States, although these countries, in particular, have most chemical weapons. It can only be hoped that both countries will be among the first of the 65 countries to recognise the agreement. The SPÖ Group will, of course, agree to the Implementing Act.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11610	The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11642	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already noted that this draft law is a consensual matter. Therefore, the Liberal Forum will also give its approval to this bill. The previous speakers have also responded to the Chemical Weapons Convention, and Austria actually has appropriate security-political advantages, a corresponding security-political gain from this Chemical Weapons Convention, because it is really about achieving the limited movement of goods of all the chemical weapons required for the manufacture of chemical weapons, and thus also the control of these chemical weapons and their extermination, but also, in my view, of the importance of achieving the limited movement of goods for the manufacture of chemical weapons. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a real security advantage for us, for our country. I believe that it is necessary - Mr Dietachmayr has already mentioned this - that we should do everything we can to get a large number of states to sign this Convention in a diplomatic way. After all, there are still about 25 countries in the world working on the development of chemical weapons, according to the US Disarmament Authority. These are in addition to the five major powers such as Iran, Iraq, Israel, Syria, Yemen, Libya, Egypt, North Korea, Pakistan and India. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the situation of the economies in these countries, I think it would be more important to use the necessary financial resources to develop these economies than to misuse them for the production of chemical weapons. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Dr. Stummful: Final word! That was a good conclusion now!]] Right now, my colleague. I should like to point out a few points. I think it is necessary for us to point out, in connection with chemical weapons and the security question, that chemical weapons are increasingly being used by terrorist groups. We know the attacks being made by terrorist groups against the civilian population, such as the attacks by the Japanese Aum sect, which are still in good memory of all of us. That is why it is not only right for us to adopt this law, but it is important and necessary that we make every effort to win other states to sign this Convention. And now to the law: I would like to point out three points here. I do not believe at all that there is anything against the establishment of a national authority in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I should like to point out, Mr Federal Minister, that, from my point of view, it is not justified and not necessary for the Setting up this national authority also incurs additional costs as mentioned here, at least 1.7 million schilling a year due to the need for planning sites. Federal Minister! They have a very extensive place. It must be possible to provide an A-offer, a B-offer and a D-offer to that national authority from this vast department with over 1,000 officials and staff so that this national authority can also be set up neutrally cost-neutral. Secondly, the question of setting up an advisory council. Mr Scheibner has already mentioned this. I do not think it would make sense to set up such a body, since the actual tasks could be carried out by this national authority, which is why Paragraphs 8 and 9 should be deleted. There is no factual justification for this, because one representative has the competence according to law, the others have to contribute to it because of their participation skills in accordance with the Federal Ministry Act. Nor do I see any objective justification for involving the social partners. That is why we will also make a corresponding amendment to the Council's amendment. Thirdly, the question of the definition of the level of penalties in the case of administrative infringements. Ladies and gentlemen! This law standards a fine of up to 500 000 s. Everyone knows that this 500 000 S for a company that produces, develops, manufactures, acquires, stores or retains such chemicals is a small thing compared to the potential profit to be derived from illegal trade or the illegal economy. That is why we want to amend these provisions, and I would like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this can actually be done with real sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by saying: We from the Liberal Forum will give this law our consent. We believe that this will achieve the implementation of the international agreement and that this implementation has also become necessary in order to address all chemical weapons on the continent and in the world. I believe that this law will no longer allow Austrian companies to be moved into the vicinity of the production of chemical weapons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11735	The amendment tabled by Mr Moser is sufficiently supported. It is included in the treatment. Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander, you are now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11759	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can, in fact, join in all that my previous speakers have said. Nevertheless, let me make a brief turn to Austrian foreign policy, because of course this is a matter of course. In 1993, when replying to a question, you said, Mr Mock, as Foreign Minister, that you will do everything you can to ensure that Austria is one of the first signatorys of this Convention. We obviously did not succeed. We're the 34. State that is now ratifying this Convention. You know, only when 65 states have ratified this Convention will it really enter into force. So we have so far not shown very much that this decision can be implemented and that this Convention actually enters into force. If today, as it looks, unanimity will prevail in the House, as far as this Convention and the implementing laws are concerned, this would be a good reason to think about it and join it – but not to let so many years pass – which would still be necessary follow-up steps. For, I believe, we agree quite soon that this implementing law alone is too little. For example, it would be a possibility and also a need to further develop or support the Convention, especially in the direction of the major chemical weapons owners, such as the United States, Great Britain, Russia or China, by promoting an international conference to review and support this Convention in order to carry out public work, lobbying, but also to exert media and political pressure on these countries. If we have already been mentioned here – and this is what we can do – that such an advisory board, according to the principle of social partnership, does not really make sense in this case and is not really a body that controls this Convention and these implementing provisions, then we should not simply delete this advisory board now, but then it would be very urgent to discuss what measures can or must be taken to ensure that these implementing provisions and this Convention are evaluated on a continuous basis. Whether this is an authority, a disarmament authority, whether it is a Commission composed of experts from the stakeholders or the ministries involved, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and Defence to the Federal Chancellor's Office, it is important that there be an official body, a publicly appointed body carrying out these tasks. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the ministry anyway!]] – Yes, but this must be cross-cutting because several resorts have to do with it. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] We can talk about it! I'm not making a request anyway. But one should talk about it and discuss it, take it as an occasion and not say: We have now decided, and that is all done. That's not done! It is an evaluation that belongs to an annual report to the Federal Government and Parliament. For example, Switzerland could also be a model that does this very well and where it is examined annually and discussed by the government and Parliament. This project, and in particular this international conference, which by the way is an initiative of the global Parliamentary Organization, the Parliamentarians for Global Actions, and which is supported by France, Germany and Holland and is very massive, should be an initiative by Austria, in any case, to support the efforts to help it not only through this Convention, but also through all further steps in the field actually to the effect that we all hope for, namely, greater security and further great disarmament. I would ask you to continue to discuss this in the relevant committees and committees and not to let so many years pass, but to follow up further requests during this legislative period. In any event, we will work on such initiatives in the very next few months, they will give you the opportunity and we invite you to discuss them with us and then bring them in and decide together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11800	Ladies and gentlemen! No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, which is to vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 73 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades, as well as Mr Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades, have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The MEPs Scheibner and comrades as well as the representatives of Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades have each tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of Sections 8 and 9. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is clearly the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on Sections 8 and 9 as amended by the Committee's report and seek out a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement. - That's the majority. Accepted. The vote on the requested amendment of paragraph names is therefore inadequate. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment concerning § 11 by Hans Helmut Moserund Comrades. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. I shall now vote on § 11 as amended by the Committee's report and seek again those ladies and gentlemen who are here for the same sign. - That's the majority. Accepted Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including title and receipt, in the version of the Committee's report, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 7. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (37 of the Supplements): Washington Convention on the Protection of Species - Enforcement Act; WA Enforcement Act (74 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11898	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. This is the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (37 of the Supplements): Washington Convention on the Implementation of Species (74 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. I would ask you to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11917	Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I report to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (37 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Implementation of the Convention of 3 October 1970. March 1973 on international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants. With Austria's accession to the European Union, the legal situation in the area of the Convention on trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants must be adapted to the regime of the European Union. The present draft federal law is intended to be the applicable federal law of 1. In July 1981 it was replaced by the following: At its meeting on 7 October, the Economic and Social Committee adopted the draft legislation which was contrary to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. ==References====External links== Deputies Ing. Monika Langthaler filed an amendment which included paragraphs 1, 2 and 8 of § 11 as well as the first paragraph. 1 of § 13 each replaces the discretion by a binding order. At the time of the vote, the Government template as amended by the aforementioned provisions of the amendment was adopted by a different majority. The remaining provisions of the amendment did not receive the necessary majority. I still have the following print error correction: In paragraphs 2 and 3 of Section 7 each have in the quotation "Abs. 1 and 2 of the words "and 2 of the words". As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the proposed legislation. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11966	I would like to thank the rapporteur. For this debate, it was established that per group a speaker with a speaking time of 10 minutes and a second speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes is speaking. Mrs Aumayr has now spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e11993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals agree with the Government's proposal on international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants, the so-called Washington type of protection agreement. It is a long-standing law, an EU Customisation Act. That means that once again the EU was the driving force. However, there are already criticisms from affected countries. Austria is relatively light, we are hardly affected. Criticism comes from South Africa, namely that in South Africa's national parks there has already been an oversupply of elephants, and South Africa complains that for the preservation of the national parks, the money that has so far been saved from the sale of ivory and elephant leather is missing. But I am sure that it would be more than problematic if a door were opened here. The costs incurred by this law for Austria are estimated at 1 320 000 S. I think these 1 320 000 S are well designed. Nevertheless, I must add: If there is talk of endangered animals and plants, there is something to be noticed not only about countries outside Europe. I'm just thinking about the million-fold murder of the migration birds in Italy. I think it is simply a scandal that in an EU country there will be a year-by-year stretch of nets, in which millions of birds will be caught and painfully destroyed. It should not be overlooked that in Austria, in Europe, too, there has been a species deaths which are really worrying. The animals and plants that have accompanied us through our childhood also die with us very quietly and largely unnoticed by humans. The red lists also become longer and longer with us. Now if you want to pick up a grassflower bouquet in spring, you have to go a long way, and maybe you'll find some dusty margarites or bellflowers somewhere in a street grave. Only more robust, strong species survive our economy. Over 50 species of fish have died out in Austrian waters for a hundred years. Unfortunately, the path continues in this direction. What's more, he's going in this direction more strongly. Gen products are now decomposing conventional seed productions. For example, a gene manipulation was carried out in rape so that the rape plant is pesticides and herbicide-resistant, so that chemistry can continue to make its rich profits – and all of this on the back of our livelihoods. Consumers are fooled by a micy label and they are bribed at low prices of the genetic products. It is a completely wrong way to go from politics here. As a fig leaf, national parks are already being created and built with us. However, we will hardly be able to press ourselves against responsibility if our children or our grandchildren once ask us; Where are the young beetles, where did the female beetles stay? And why can you just buy flowers more in the shop or pick them in the garden? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Marie Käferln is still living in masses!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! Whether we can really stand with the argument, we have created jobs instead, we have built power plants, we have built roads, we have increased our yields in agriculture – I doubt this, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, the different treatment of animals at risk of extinction is unbearable... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You can speak here and express your opinion. I also find the different treatment of animals threatened by extinction and so-called farm animals unsustainable, Mr Schwarzenberger. Those who are currently driving our streets with open eyes notice a dramatic increase in trucks that transport live animals. A dramatic increase, Mr Schwarzenberger! I recently spoke to a truck driver who carried out an animal transport. There it had minus 15 degrees and the planks on the on-board wall of this truck were open. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's being punished!]] I asked him if this is not to the detriment of the animals if he is driving these open planks on the motorway at 120 kilometres. Do you know what I got for the answer? That's good, because the cold makes the animals stare – and keep quiet. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's where you should have written the number and made an advertisement!]] This is our economy with the so-called farm animals. And you are making these animal transports the wall, because our minister has not enforced himself in the EU to finally stop it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The EU is totally on the brake, and I really have to say: It is unworthy of a humanist society to deal with the animals in this way. We really need to see that this is being changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12097	Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12118	It is now the second time that Members who have spoken in favour of a request are voting in favour of the first part of the list of speakers. I would ask the Bureau in future to ensure that, if the Committee's reports show that things are proposed unanimously, it is not assumed from the outset that the opposition is counter-thinking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12149	Thank you, I took note. Mrs Perfuss has now been reported to the House. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12173	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The problem is known. Trade in exotic and other endangered animals and plants is based on a simple principle: buy and sell. Rich countries, and this includes Austria, buy. People in these countries have a fundamental motivation to want to possess valuable, exotic and special things. It is significant that trade in items, such as bags, shoes, belts et cetera, is much larger than the trade in live animals. Especially in this area, the imbalance between the First and Third Worlds is particularly noticeable. Here are the rich who create status symbols with art-protected creatures and products, and there those people who, for reasons of survival, often hunt the animals with the most brutal means to satisfy the eccentric needs of some Europeans. In the meantime, there are often enough business makers who make careless profits. The cycle works as long as there are people who buy products and animals. It is clear that trade with species-protected animals cannot be completely stopped. It is important that, at international level, as this Washington Convention on the Protection of Species, illegal trade is prohibited with strict standards. With Austria's accession to the European Union, the legal situation in the area of the Convention on trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants must be adapted to the regime of the European Union. It is positive that control authorities are now granted. However, it is essential that these controls are also carried out regularly. I consider it extremely positive that criminal prosecution is possible for the first time in the event of irregularities or injustices. So far, these crimes have been treated as administrative violations. As examples from the past show, traders who have dealt illegally with valuable animals have finally escaped an administrative penalty of only 5 000 s, although the value of the animals on the domestic market has amounted to 1 million schilling. These fines are now being increased sensitively. As Austria is bordering on the reform states, the risk of illegal animal transport is of course particularly high, as the reform states have not yet signed the Washington Convention on Species and therefore no appropriate regulations and controls. That is why better controls and tougher penalties in Austria and the EU restrict the market with species-protected animals. Minister! It is important that we also do consciousness work to inform people about the cycle they support and promote with the purchase of products and the attitude of art-protected animals. Buying refusal would be without law, the most effective method of putting an end to dirty trade. Our group will vote in favour of this implementing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12224	I would like to point out that I have complied with the suggestion. A re-submission has been made, however, which does not change the order of the speakers. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12249	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am indeed a contra-reder at this item on the agenda, because the Greens are unfortunately unable to agree to this law, although we admit that there are some minor improvements in this novel. Since the beginning of the 1980s, Austria has been a member of this Convention for the Protection of Species, but in general it is still necessary to establish that species protection was and is a stepchild of politics both internationally and especially in Austria. It is an anachronism that we – we are, I believe, the only country in Europe – will not implement this Convention of Species in the Ministry of the Environment, but in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In recent years, we have repeatedly criticized this situation and have repeatedly called for a change in competence. But there has now been no change in this form of government, although this would, of course, be more appropriate in the matter. This is not only true of the Greens, but also of many studies and studies. A study recently prepared on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, on the implementation of the Convention on Species and the experience of this Convention for the Protection of Species, and the conclusions clearly state that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as a executing authority, has set out only a few real initiatives to improve the implementation of this Agreement in Austria within the framework of its ten years of its work. Problems that have been known for years have not been addressed, nothing has been improved. The conclusions are as follows: The alternative would be to hand over the competence to an authority wishing to do so. In our opinion, this would be the Ministry of the Environment, and it is a pity that such an inflated place as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which still has many very different agendas, was not prepared to hand over such a small but important area to the very small and still little competent Ministry of the Environment. – This is the first point of criticism of the Greens and one of the reasons why we cannot accept this law. But there are a number of other reasons that are likely to be much more harsh in the matter. – In this study, which I have previously quoted, it is quite clear that Austria is a hub for illegal trafficking in endangered species. If one reads through this or study, in which Questionnaires have been sent to various European countries, in order to investigate how Austria actually implements this agreement and how good cooperation with other Member States is, one comes to say very disillusioned: Especially from the Federal Republic of Germany – I quote literally – "that is obvious" – the German authorities say, "the criminal organizations that smuggle animals for the European black market, use Austria as an intermediate station and depot and Austrians as hand-knockers, couriers and smugglers". – This is literally stated in this study. We have also tried, with various amendments which I have tabled in part today, to intensify the implementation and, above all, the control of this agreement. Unfortunately, however, we have remained in the minority committee. I would like to read a paragraph from this search for the Ministry of the Environment: Under the title "Organized Species Protection Crime" you will find the following literal quotation: "The legal and organisational possibilities that exist in Austria to combat this branch of organised crime are so inadequate that Austria has become a depot for the lucrative markets of illegal trade in animals and Austrians are a smuggler for transnational, criminal organisations, because this is riskless." This investigation and research point out several times that it would be necessary to make national intensifications in this field, and of course this would have been possible in the context of an amendment to this Convention on the protection of species. However, they have shuddered at that. This is probably less because you are in principle opposed to improvements, but above all because there is so little interest in politics in this area and that the lobby is still too weak for this, but there are very, very strong economic interests that are opposed to a really sharp performance. Another example of why we cannot accept this novel has a European dimension and shows that the European Parliament is still not taken seriously, especially in areas such as environmental protection or animal welfare, by the executive, namely the Commission. For many years the European Parliament has fought for a ban on imports of animals caught with so-called plates: This is a particularly painful type of animal fishing, which is, of course, used mainly for the sake of obtaining good fur quality and fur quality, because in the case of gunshot wounds, the fur could not be processed accordingly. This initiative of the European Parliament was successful in so far as in 1991, after a really almost ten-year period of discussion, there was a very, very large majority in the European Parliament for a general ban on this fishing in Europe, on the one hand, and for a ban on the import of animals killed by such methods, on the other hand. It is now a fact that the first part of this regulation has been implemented thanks to God; this fishing method is also prohibited in Austria and other European countries. But what happened then is – as I mean – legal curiosum: The Commission has, in fact, begun to object to this 1991 decision by failing to formulate or adopt the necessary implementing provisions. The European Parliament then launched another initiative and on 14 July it adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. 12. In 1995 an overwhelming majority, namely 260 votes to 46, voted for the entry into force of this Regulation. Nevertheless, a few days later, the European Commission issued an order to the relevant enforcement bodies, mainly to the customs offices of each Member State, that this Regulation, although of course EU law, should not be implemented. In other words, a law was passed, it was passed through the Council of Ministers and by overwhelming majority through the European Parliament and was then simply disposed of by the Commission in the cold way: For there is both American and Canadian interest in still exporting animals to Europe, which have been brutally killed by this method of fishing. Now there is the argument – and Mrs Tichy-Schreder has also mentioned it to me – that allegedly particularly indigenous peoples would be involved in this type of animal fishing and animal killing. I have therefore looked again at the Committee's report by the European Parliament, and see here: It strongly contradicts this argument. It is clear from the Committee's report that it is by no means part of indigenous cultures. Only two percent of indigenous people in Canada are fallers, and in the U.S., their number in the promill, the average annual income of indigenous trappers is less than 3,000 S, is therefore absolutely negligible. The lobbies, which are behind the failure to implement the regulation, are still great economic lobbies. They have achieved – and I think this is a terrible episode in European law from a legal point of view – that the Commission simply does not take note of a vote, and that an existing regulation is more or less cold. I therefore propose an amendment by the Greens: Some of these have been decided in the Committee. I would also like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs, who was very cooperative on some points. We have remained in the minority in others, such as the one we wanted to insert in national law in the Tellerreisverordnung. [[Quoted print version removed]] After this lecture, you will certainly all feel that the green applications should be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12385	The final rate was, as it were, a number of grammatical sentences. Mrs Klara Motter has now been mentioned. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12412	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to take the decision-making process of this law to highlight the importance of this law from an animal protection point of view. Allow me to give you some information very briefly about what it really looks like to endanger our animals around the world. Ladies and gentlemen! On average, five species of animals are currently dying on earth per day. In a few decades, 10 percent of all known animal species will be extinct. 168 bird species alone are at risk of extinction, 235 are at high risk and 704 are threatened worldwide. According to Bird Life International, 200 species will die in the next 20 years. Furthermore, of the well-known species, the Breitmaulnashorn, the Siberian Tiger, the Carett turtle, the collar bear, the Chinese Panda and the Red Tuna can only be saved with the greatest effort. From this point of view, the fact that 60 billion schillings are already being implemented in the illegal trade in animals worldwide is an anachronism. Although we have the Washington Convention on the Protection of Species, this important agreement is still in some cases not sufficiently implemented. This is because every third country in the world still has no legislation on species conservation, as was found at the last conference on species protection. For example, Poland, Slovakia and Greece do not know this law at all. And in only every fifth country, legislation corresponds to the notions of the Convention on Species. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as trade in endangered species promises such profits as they are currently possible, as long as half a million shillings are paid for for a South American parrot and for a rare cactus 75 000 s, as long as the desire for ivory does not decrease and the aberglaubic summaries for rhino powder are paid, because it is regarded as a miracle against impotence, as long as medical trade continues to boom, especially in Asia, with completely irrational promises to potential customers, unfortunately, for so long the speciesmen will fight against windmills. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That you don't misunderstand me: We do not want any further bloating of bureaucracy, which means that there are more officials monitoring the relevant provisions. Rather, we are concerned with promoting the rethinking of people, and I think we are all called to ensure that rethinking takes place. However, this cannot be caused by an increase in bureaucracy. Above all, there is a need for rethinking in the countries of the North, where there is still demand for so-called luxury items. Austria has also taken a long time to adopt a law on the implementation of the 1973 Washington Convention on Species Protection. It took eight years to finally pass an implementing law, and this too still includes shortcomings. In this way, efficient control at airports is still not guaranteed; There were and do not exist shelters for seized animals until today. In Austria too, some federal states have still not adopted the implementing regulations that are urgently necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the popular desire that was launched this week is rightly called for a federal animal welfare law. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The fact that we now have to adapt our law in the field of international trade with endangered species to EU law is a positive one, since the EU regulations and EU directives in some respects go beyond our previous incomplete law. – Emphasis should be placed on the present proposal, on the broad control provisions, in particular for transit of protected species and their products, and on the inclusion of criminal judicial stocks. Ladies and gentlemen! We would also have thought it useful to extend the obligation to provide information, not only on animals at risk of extinction, but also on species particularly endangered, which were introduced in Austria before the entry into force of this law. I would like to say that we Liberals agree with paragraphs 1, 5 and 6 of the Green amendment and therefore call for a separate vote at second reading. However, we will vote in third reading, since this law is at least an improvement in relation to the current situation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, the required addition to § 14 would be a concern which concerns the prohibition of the import of fur from countries that still use animal torture. They know that we are promoting free world trade, wherever it may be, and we are rejecting protectionism. That is why it is precisely our concern in this context to point out that free trade has its limits, where there is a disproportionately large impairment of living beings. For this reason, it would also be legitimate to extend the ban on imports to all fur from such countries, since it is no longer possible to distinguish whether these fur animals are caught with traps or come from farmed animals which are also highly susceptible to animal disease. In conclusion: The Liberals would also consider it useful if the competences of this law moved to the Ministry of the Environment, because then this toothless ministry would finally have new competences. In addition to Austria, the Ministry of the Environment is not responsible for the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Species in Japan and Monaco. We cannot accept a double responsibility, as the Greens demand in their request. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[21:40]] : I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Monika Langthaler, friends and friends, has been properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Salzl has now been reported to the House. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12517	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we advise and decide – as I hope – a federal law on the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants. I am happy about this, and we also support this project. Animal and animal welfare is becoming an increasingly important concern for many Austrians, and this is why it is high time that extensive regulations, largely specified by the EU, were implemented also in Austria. Especially because of our accession to the European Union and the fact that our external borders are quite long, Austria is increasingly becoming a trading and handling place for exotic animals and endangered species. Many animal welfare organisations are therefore calling for international provisions, such as this Washington Convention on Species, to be finally implemented efficiently and consistently in national legislation, as well as in enforcement. However, the protectionists also call for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to be transferred to the competence of the Ministry of the Environment, on the grounds that species protection must not be of primary economic interest, ladies and gentlemen. In this respect, it is obvious that animal protectionists have no confidence in the Minister for Economic Affairs, because too often animal welfare has already been sacrificed to economic interests. The size of the profits in this area is shown by the fact that for rare protected animals, summaries are often paid. For example, some species of birds on the black market reach well over 100 000 S. For some parrot species, for example for couple Hyazinth, up to 350 000, 400 000 s are paid. It should not be surprising, therefore, that highly criminal and highly organized associations of profit-seekers are engaged in illegal trafficking in extinction animals and their products. It has become Austria – I am now quoting a daily newspaper – because of its uneven, lax laws on the hub of illegal trafficking in extinct animals for the whole of Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of five animals, only one reaches the dealer in Austria alive. Given this fact, I understand, of course, the emotions of animal protectionists, who often go up, because in Austria too, there are a variety of animals and species that are threatened with extinction. As Mrs Langthaler has given particular emphasis to the problem of fishing for animals with tell-tales, I would like to point out that, as a result of the different animal welfare laws and the different national regulations, such trappings are still in use in the hunting legislation in Austria. We support and therefore also welcome the popular desire that is currently under way, in which a federal uniform animal welfare law is required, so that such unsitting can be handled with the help of minimum standards and minimum standards and that a genuine federal system can be established. I wish the initiators of this popular desire a great deal of success and seek the support of all Austrians – and also of those present here – to this popular desire. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[21:45]] : Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12568	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! This Washington Convention on Species Protection, to be dealt with today, has already been signed on 3 March. ==References====External links== It is essentially based on three attachments that correspond to different strict categories of protection. Originally, the Annexes included about 600 species of animals and only a few species of plants; today they are already 2,000 species of animals and more than 30 000 species of plants worldwide. The present draft federal law – which is also an EU adaptation – is to replace the existing federal law from 1981. The relevant law of the EU must be adopted, only in individual areas a regulatory area has been reserved for the Member States. This agreement also regulates the transport of these animals and plants, and I would like to point out that we decided here a few weeks ago on the agreement on animal transport in air transport, which is essentially also concerned with the areas currently under discussion. This agreement deals with the rules for the transport of live animals or plants, such as the duration of transport, the nature of the containers, the care and care during transport and the transport capability, and we have regulated these positions in the Animal Transport Act Air. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But now we have to go a little further, so to speak: For as long as the approval of food is not only the sole objective of society in the industrialized countries, all consumers, trade chains and processing companies also bear a high debt. As long as trade chains use meat products or dairy products as cheap locks, they naturally force farmers to manage as rationally as possible and save costs where they are concerned. – Farmers themselves would never torture animals, on the contrary: Every farmer is interested in the good of his animals. Agricultural farming represents two thirds of the total value added in agriculture, so the farmers' interest in the welfare of the animals is understandable, because an animal that feels comfortable also thrives better. In the meantime, the Article 15a agreement on the harmonization of animal welfare, which has been reached by all the federal states, is, I believe, a very essential step. However, the federal competence alone will not be sufficient. In this context, the animal transport law is a very good example: We have passed an exemplary animal transport law in Austria. However, since the Federal Government does not have the appropriate facilities and structure, it must be controlled and monitored by the countries in central government; and this monitoring and control is rather inadequate, and this is where the criticism begins. Similarly, it would also have to deal with a federal uniform animal welfare law, which in turn must execute the countries. That is why we must have the greatest interest in a smooth and efficient execution. This is particularly true in the field of public transport, because over 180 000 farmers in Austria have already opted for environmentally sound agriculture and receive premiums for it. This shows that most of our farmers are already abandoning trade fertilizers and plant protection products. There, Mrs Aumayr, there are also flower meadows with us. You can visit my company from mid-May or June. I haven't used trade fertilizers and plant protection products for more than 20 years. That's why I also have flower meadows. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Aumayr.]] That is why I would like once again to call on all consumers here to use Austrian products also in the food sector and to ensure that they are not imported products. They bear the AMA quality mark, which guarantees 100 percent of the original production of meat products and dairy products from Austria. – This is the best countermeasure against unbearable imports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12620	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not accept a final word. We are therefore entering the voting procedure, namely the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 74 of the supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Langthaler and comrades submitted supplementary and amending requests. Mrs Motter asked for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the applications and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. Langthaler and comrades have tabled an amendment to § 9 para. 1 And I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I leave immediately on § 9 para. 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Ing. Langthaler and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 10, and I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall now vote on § 10 as part of the Committee's report and seek the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it. - That's the majority. Accepted. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Langthaler and comrades submit an additional request to insert an Abs. 10 in § 11 as well as an Abs. 5 in § 13 has content, and I seek out those ladies and gentlemen who stand in front of it for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. A supplementary request from the honourable Member, Mr Ing. Langthaler and comrades refer to the insertion of a new § 14a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Langthaler and comrades an additional request concerning the insertion of a par. 7 brought in in § 19 and I seek those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here to give a positive signal. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 8. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (38 of the Supplements): Notification Act – NotifG (75 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12710	We're on the 8th. Agenda item: Report of the Economic Committee on the Government template 38 of the Supplements, Notification Act (75 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is again Mr Magistrate. Steindl. I would ask you to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12728	Mr President. High house! I will report back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (38 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the implementation of an information procedure in the field of technical regulations and standards. The Federal Act must, with a view to Austria's accession to the EU and a revision of the transposed Directive 83/189/EEC, OJ L 353, 30.12.1989. No. OJ No L 109, 26. ==References====External links== At its meeting on 7 October, the Economic and Social Committee adopted the draft legislation which was contrary to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. ==References====External links== The Government's proposal was adopted unanimously during the vote. As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft law submitted by the Federal Government. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would like to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12762	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The debate was limited to a "Vienna hour". The following general speaking times are therefore expressed in minutes: SPÖ 15, ÖVP 14, Liberal 13, Liberal Forum and Greens per 9 minutes. Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At first glance, the notification law available to the National Council for decision-making may seem to be a purely technical adaptation to an appropriate EU directive, but behind all these definitions in the law is an extremely important material salary for the domestic economy. A small, open economy like Austria is highly dependent on successful foreign trade. This situation was also taken into account by the new Federal Government as part of its export offensive programme. Setting up a framework that creates the best possible conditions for the export economy and the jobs it entails is a site which is particularly relevant at national level. It includes, for example, appropriate funding, settlement programmes and training measures. On the other hand, we must note, however, that in the course of the ever-increasing international division of labour, but also in particular as a result of the formation of new trade blocks, additional challenges arise. It should be noted that there is a significant reduction in customs duties, customs duties and quantitative restrictions, in particular within trade blocks. At the same time, technical barriers to trade are becoming increasingly important and are able to build new barriers. If there is not a relatively rapid harmonisation of national rules, this may in some cases benefit individual countries or individual companies, but for the overall system it means inefficient trading structures. The timely and complete exchange of information on measures already adopted or in individual cases in the field of technical regulations and standards thus helps to at least make the emergence of new barriers to trade difficult in this field. This is particularly true in the light of the new WTO agreement. It is interesting to note, among other things, that the range of technical regulations to be subsumed under the draft law is relatively broad. For example, technical de facto rules include technical specifications or other provisions related to tax or financial measures affecting the consumption of products. However, for the domestic economy, ladies and gentlemen, it will not only be of great importance, without delay, to obtain information on technical regulations and standards in other EU countries in order to maintain competitiveness, but also to participate in the process of setting EU-wide technical regulations and standards themselves. Therefore, the innovativeness and research willingness of small and medium-sized enterprises is particularly required. A complex set of regulations for European approvals, testing and certification bodies, uniform testing procedures, uniform standards and regulations, as well as uniform labelling of products, is therefore underway. In this area too, Austria's accession to the European Union has ensured that we can work fully to bring the local quality level in many areas into the relevant EU rules, EU standards and basic documents. It is therefore obvious that my group – but I am pleased that all other political groups are doing so too – is giving its assent to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12835	The honourable Member is still speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schöggl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12856	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The presence is better than in mountain law, so I am very glad to be able to bring you a little closer to the notification law. It is an important matter, perhaps not a colossal one, but what is hidden behind the creation of words? – It is about the implementation of fundamental freedoms in the EU, namely the removal of barriers to trade, as Mr Eder has already said. So far, it has often been tried to secure its own market through specific regulatory features, which differ somewhat from international standards. We're trying to protect the market. Each country has developed its own tricks over time to shield itself from competition from abroad. Especially exporters who want to export to France, for example, can sing a song of it. The differences in technical regulations should be eliminated. You can imagine that this way: The regulations are unified, and the flow of the flow of goods is already unhindered and an export offensive can take place. – It's not as simple as you imagine it to be. First of all, you have to put on an enormously large bureaucratic apparatus. This is so that the Austrian standards producers, those are the standardisation institute and the ÖVE, work out standards, and then submit them to the so-called competent body, whatever that may be, to the competent ministry. This Ministry forwards this requirement to the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. This provision will then be forwarded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Commission to Brussels. The Commission in Brussels distributes this revised provision to the competent authorities of the other EU countries, there will be opinions gathered, and finally the opinions will be returned to the standards producers; and the game will end there capo. So it will not be easy, but there is the hope that this harmonization of standards will open up opportunities for the Austrian economy. In this context, however, one could also question the activity, the costs and the costs of the Austrian standardisation institution, which, after all, employs a large number of employees and standard committees. According to my information, the activities of the Standardisation Institute in recent years are only limited to the translation of CEN and CENELEC standards, since its own Austrian standardisation activity has come to an end due to the low importance of Austrian standards in international markets. Some services are also provided by the standardisation institution. I could imagine that in this area some savings would be possible if the savings package were carefully reviewed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals only agree with this bill, because this law will bring a bloating of bureaucracy, because it will not be cost-neutral, as provided for in the draft, because bureaucracy is costing money. But there is nothing else left to us, because we are obliged to adopt EU rules with EU accession, and because we hope that our export economy will find more opportunities. That is why we agree with this bill, although we are concerned that import pressure on Austria's economic operators will increase extremely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12905	There is no more word message. The debate is thus closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore entering the voting procedure and we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 38 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's uniformity of votes. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – This too is voice lightness. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (43 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Patent Act 1970 and the Patent Contract Introduction Act (76 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12957	We come to item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template 43 of the Supplements: Federal Act, amended by the Patent Act and the Patent Contract Introduction Act, 76 of the Supplements. The rapporteur is again Mr Magistrate. Steindl. I ask him to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e12977	Mr President. High house! I shall return the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template 43 of the Supplements. The Economic and Social Committee adopted the draft legislation in its meeting on 7 June. ==References====External links== The Government's proposal was adopted unanimously during the vote. As a result of its deliberations, the Economic and Social Committee therefore proposes that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft law submitted by the Federal Government. Mr President. In the event that word is made, please go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13005	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. The debate was limited to a "Vienna hour". Overall speaking times are as follows: SPÖ 15, ÖVP 14, Liberal 13, Liberal Forum and Greens per 9 minutes. Mr Wallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13029	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Successful economies require research and innovation, a quote that recently appeared in the information sheet "What patent protection?" has been published and I can join in full content. The current legislative change has become necessary through the production of EU and WTO conformity, and I would now like to see this opportunity to discuss some general points of patent rights here. Ladies and gentlemen! This market is characterised above all by the rapid increase in monopoly rights. These include all patent rights, trademark rights and designer rights. These are 80 000 in Austria alone, around 28 000 more than six years ago. This, of course, reduces the space for technological developments enormously. 85 percent of the upright patents have foreign holders. This can be seen on the one hand as an indication of the attractiveness of the Austrian market, but on the other hand it also presents a challenge for the domestic economy and for Austrian research. The rapid growth of this market can be read exactly from the annual statistics of the previous year: Of the 2 935 national invention reports, 2 350 are from Austrians. With this number, the innovations "made in Austria" were slightly below the value of 1994; at that time there were 2,460. It is certainly expected - and I would like to say this from this point of view - by the economy that this falling trend will be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen! We assume that the essence of patents is so important that efforts in this direction need to be intensified. The federal states could also play a more intensive co-ordination role. I therefore see this role of the countries in the counter-taxation of declining invention reports as the cause of fewer patent applications can be found in a greater awareness of the cost of the domestic economy, with cost awareness being understood in this context in the short term. This means, in my view, that the cost of the economy is certainly very high. It can also be called in some cases, profit maximization and "cash-cow" principle. Therefore, the Federal Government and the countries have a coordinated and non-subsidising approach to this trend. If you want to raise the entire monopoly or patent potential – it also includes trademark protection and designer protection, and if it is about the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, you will have to answer this question clearly with Yes – then you automatically come to two key points: first, the profitability of patent developments and, secondly, of course, the marketing of patent developments. So if the public authority acknowledges this, we must also enable the patent developers to do so. We have to create the framework conditions, which are based on success, but if there is a patent, it must also be expected as a project. This calculation can only be made by means of an acceptable and equivalent fee of licences. It is also economic interest to promote not only development but also publicity. This concerns both the national and the international markets, because the exploitation of patents not only promotes the reputation of the domestic economy, but also usually leads to further increases in sales and profits in the context of project operations. Finally, a short comment on marketing: Of course, there is the theory of revelation as the state of the patent right. It has the essential goal of encouraging the inventor to bring the idea of invention to the public as soon as possible and thus to give the professional world the opportunity to build on it. De facto, however, only works on a conditional basis. Especially at a time when we expect so much from the middle class – we expect a boost of thousands of independent business start-ups even in the next few years – we must increasingly turn to patent marketing. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about making available knowledge. The people currently acting are extremely hard and the dominant structures are not so bad at all. However, an increase in efficiency is certainly necessary; the use of the latest technologies is also necessary. At the same time, however, I would also like to open up the reflection on a market economy-led patent information agency. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13086	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13108	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template, with which the Patent Act and the Patent Contract Introduction Act are to be amended, will give their consent to the liberals. This law is about provisions which are not TRIPS conformity. It seems very essential to us that, in particular, protection of intellectual property is guaranteed. I'm just calling one area: Robust copies. These are a problem. In the end, they are the product of a development of intellectual property that is wrongfully acquired, that is, the acquisition of the knowledge of others. This leads me to research and development. It is about using spiritual potential accordingly and being inventive, creative. We have heard from my previous speaker that innovation and research are essential factors for the Austrian economy. In this context, I would like to remind you that Austria, with regard to gross domestic product, has only a very small proportion of research funding, i.e. a total of 1.5 percent, which in 1995 has been halved in about half, which is the result of the funds from the public sector and those from the private sector. According to the OECD criteria, this proportion should be at least 2.2 percent, especially in the case of a developed economic nation. Since it was said in the previous speech that there are efforts to set up new businesses, I would like to point out that Austria, with its small and medium-sized structures, has very limited opportunities to do so in the field of research and research. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this Everyone knows, there are exceptions, but that's not the case. This means that appropriate resources will be required by the public authorities. I assume that you also know the charts according to which Austria is very bad in comparison with the EU neighbouring countries, but also with Japan, Switzerland and the United States, which leads to the cost of research and development. The amendment — I suppose it will still be tabled by the Liberals — should we be brought in to give our consent on the basis of the fact that there is no legal uncertainty as a result of a difference between private patents and those coming from the public sector, because there is also a need for transparency. For this reason, we will vote in favour of this amendment if it is tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13150	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13171	Mr President. Federal Minister! In our view, the Patent Act and the Patent Contract Introduction Act provide an important basis for the fact that innovation in the intellectual property sector is actually going in the right direction. I am therefore very pleased personally that the need for resurgence, which Austria also had from the legal bases, is now at last the subject of a parliamentary debate. I believe that this link to the international TRIPS agreement is necessary and that Austria is now fully in line with international rules. It has also been necessary for Austria to make some amendments to the EU competition law in relation to patent legislation and to adapt it to the applicable law in the antitrust law. Although most of the provisions of this draft law are in substance contradictory and clear, I nevertheless agree that two provisions in this draft law are worthy of discussion, which is why a brief amendment is tabled by our group. It is referred to in paragraph 36 (3): "If a licence is granted to a patented invention in the public interest, everyone is entitled to a non-exclusive licence to the invention for his business." Licenses are the essence and character of a limited right of use – a right that can also be revoked and is not normally exclusive. I am only concerned that a difference is made: that, if the Federal Government asserts such a right, it is not bound to an undertaking, but, as it were, each other entrepreneur must first prove that he has actually set up an undertaking, in fact, a company. It is not enough for a company to be established. It's not possible to get a patent first – wait a bit, colleague! – to log in and then start a business. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Are you agreeing or not?]] The second point that we criticise on this draft law is a somewhat ominous secretive clause. Paragraph 110 refers to the fact that each free trader must notify, assess and then make known its patent invention, which is normally a cost-intensive matter. It is also a question of facilitating, of course, the right to combat, to object to patents for another party. I do not see, however, that the State has a preferred position in that it does not have to comply with these rules. Then: This paragraph 110 provides that the grant of a patent may result if the patent is in the public interest, without any notice! So there is a second case of inequality. The Liberal Group has therefore tabled an amendment which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the adoption of this regulation will certainly be a step further. We would then have a very transparent patent right, which applies to everyone. That would be a desirable and desirable state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13234	The just-readed amendment has been properly submitted, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Rossmann has also been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13258	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have already explained, I, of course, welcome this amendment to the Patent Act. It is high time to consider that Austria has a significant deficit in the patent balance and that, due to false research funding in recent years, almost no significant inventor has been able to be listed in Austria. It has already been more than 25 years since, for example, Austria's LD procedure was an international honor. Unfortunately, a litter of this magnitude has not been successful since then. However, the best patent law and appropriate safeguard measures will not help at all if not enough research can be done. That's what I'm asking myself, Mr. Wallner: They are talking here about the framework conditions to be created. – Your party has been in the government for 25 years, and you have the naughtiness and come out here and say: The framework conditions must be created so that this patent law can be implemented! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The assessment of what's a naughtiness and what's not, better leave us!]] You have installed a Pseudo Future Ministry. – I wonder: What will this so-called future minister actually do if the economy – as we have heard today – has to deal with measures that are counterproductive. The economic location of Austria is also in danger, as is our reputation for research. Please note this, even if you do not want to hear it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] They create new tax barriers. Let's just think about energy taxes: Do you think that businesses will settle in Austria in the future if we have an energy tax? Or: We are no longer talking about long-term planning; we can no longer even make medium-term planning serious, because your new laws will be partially implemented retroactively, and this has made serious medium-term business planning impossible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Nevertheless, we are in favour of this innovation of the patent law, even if, instead of giving incentives, you are putting new blows on the economy again. Think about some relief in overbureaucratisation, think about it. You will also consider a reduction in the cost of procedures, a division of skills that might be undertaken at some point in time: We haven't heard anything from you about all this in the morning! I'll tell you one thing: In the time when someone in Austria is following an operating system process, one has long been millionaire in the USA! They will wonder how many farms will emigrate to overseas. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: That's not true!]] There is already a famous example of this in Graz City: The Vice-Chairman of the ÖVP of Graz City has already set up a business in the USA. He knows why. Others will follow this. But you have this in this house to answer! Minister! The whole inventive spirit and all innovation do not benefit if the corresponding obstacles are not removed. The ÖVP and, above all, the Economic Chamber are also called upon to finally wake up and show the flag in the near future. We have no confidence in you at all. We will tell people wherever we are, how you sell the Austrian economy in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13333	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore entering the voting procedure and we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 43 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Firlinger and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Firlinger and comrades have an amendment concerning § 36 para. 3 and further requested the deletion of § 110. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now vote on these parts, in the version of the Government's proposal. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to these parts of the draft law to a sign in this regard. – This is accepted with a single vote. We shall now come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to agree to this draft law at the third reading to have a similar sign. – This is also accepted unanimously. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. 10. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 10/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Heide Schmidtand comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the B-VG
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13416	We shall now proceed to item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the motion for a resolution 10/A by Dr Schmidt and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act. For the debate, it is stated that two speakers are speaking each time for 10 minutes. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13446	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not uncommon, in itself, for women-related issues to be discussed rather later in this House. If I would also like to admit that our request is of particularly high relevance to us women, I must nevertheless make it clear that, from a liberal point of view, it is to the same extent the constitutional safeguarding of the equality of all federal citizens and all federal citizens – regardless of their sexual orientation; we therefore mean the particularly disadvantaged group of homosexuals, who are not only discriminated against by a part of society, but unfortunately also by laws – and also regardless of party membership. In fact, favors and disadvantages resulting from party membership belong to the so-called and multi-quota real constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! Discrimination of women in social reality is on the agenda anyway. It is therefore particularly important to me, as a woman's spokesman, that the enforcement of equality between men and women should be guaranteed constitutionally by means of targeted promotion and the reduction of disadvantages. I am very glad that the Minister for Women is here now because I would like to ask her a few questions: I would like to ask you why the intention in the 1994 Coalition Convention to recast the constitutional principle of equality has been replaced in the 1996 Coalition Convention – unfortunately – without replacement. The current vague statement of intent that women's position should be improved socially and economically, for example in family law, may not have been meant to be a serious replacement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Unfortunately, it is really significant that in this case the woman is once again seen exclusively as part of the family. I see this as a further kneefall in front of a conservative ÖVP. Mr Klubobmann Khol, as a woman's spokesman, has clearly enforced this in this context – although you, Mrs. Klubobmann, have only recently explained in a press hour how necessary a constitutional safeguarding of already existing simple legal regulations would be, and although you have already clearly raised a specific demand in this House in this direction and promised to continue to be active in this direction under the approval of the SPÖ. The formal equality of women has not yet been implemented into social reality. We are further away from this – not least by the already decided bonus-malus law – than ever. I would like to mention just a few facts: The employment rate of women is 63 percent compared to the employment rate of men of 79 percent. We are in the OECD average on the same level with Portugal, and this is really not a glorious leaf for Austria! It is precisely the employment that makes women independent and guarantees them economic security outside of marriage. However, among 50,000 senior employees, there are not even 8,000 women. 70 per cent of women in work are employed in the service sector in already less paid occupations. On average, female academics earn as much as men who can have a degree in middle school. Every fifth woman, but only every 62. Man's part-time. Women are far less often active in qualified areas of activity, and this also results in a significantly higher unemployment rate and a significantly lower unemployment rate for women, and old age poverty is just female. Since the implementation of the formal equality of women in social reality is far from complete, it is particularly necessary – and we really need to do so – that the actual equality of women must be fully conscious and targeted. It should not at all be suspected that already existing simple-law regulations, women with equal qualifications – and for us liberals is an important point – could temporarily prefer to contradict the principle of equality. For this reason, from the point of view of liberals, there is a need for explicit clarification in the Constitution. Our liberal application for women's support is in line with Article 4 of the UN Convention and existing EU law. Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply necessary to accept, of course, the realization of equality between men and women as a social policy. Equality between men and women must not continue to be seen as male discrimination in favour of women! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] There are quite a number of fields of work in which men are, unfortunately, clearly underrepresented, although gender parity is particularly desirable in these fields of social policy and is also highly necessary. As an example, I would like to mention the field of kindergartens, preschool education and folk school. Unfortunately, in this area there is a clear overhang on women – of course, directors and executives are excluded from it – although gender parity would be necessary. This would serve, on the one hand, to provide guidance and awareness of our children, but on the other hand, a higher proportion of men in these areas would be relatively quick to improve their assessment and, on the other hand, a higher payment of those who are really very, very demanding in this educational field.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13525	Mrs Dr Mertel has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13547	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes the temptation is very direct and obvious, easy to say: I agree with the previous speaker and do not give up my 10 minutes speaking time. There are, however, points that I would like to draw up, as to which we have a slightly different attitude. I am pleased, however, that today's request by the Liberal Forum has initiated something which in autumn has failed in this House to achieve a largely conservative attitude. My group then has a request for an amendment. 7 B-VG. This should underline the importance of equality between women and men, but also establish that women's promotion and equal treatment between women and men should be a state objective. Mrs Schaffenrath! One thing we take seriously from the SPÖ: that it is clearly stated in the current coalition agreement that women's social and economic equality must be improved by further legislation. As regards the review of the EU-conformity of Austrian women's promotion, the Austrian Federal Government is already working on proposals and formulations in order to improve the application of the principle of equal treatment in EU primary law. To this end, the EU Government Conference 1996 offers the best opportunity, however, regardless of whether the Austrian rules comply with EU law. We are still concerned by the question of whether the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 17 November 1989 In October 1995 our promotion of women could be at risk. The motion for a resolution on this point has already been put to the vote on 17 November. A majority was found in November 1995. – What I am missing from the Liberal Forum’s request is the clear wording – and we have put particular emphasis on this in our proposal in autumn – that specific and objectively justified promotion of women must be permitted. This is necessary in order to bring about the actual equality between women and men. This principle is very important to us. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: This is our request!]] They just write: promote. "Promoting measures" is a stronger definition. The aim of anchoring equality between women and men in the Constitution is to formulate the de facto equality beyond formal equality as a constitutional task, with the emphasis on the word "real". Indeed, gender disadvantages continue to exist; in fact, wage shears between women's and men's incomes continue to differ, even with equal qualifications; in fact, the difference in pension levels, in social benefits such as unemployment benefit, emergency aid et cetera is significant; in fact, the double burden by the agreement of working and family life is depressing due to the lack of appropriate framework conditions such as childcare facilities; in fact, the greater concern of women is alarming by unemployment, long-term unemployment and poverty risk; in fact, activities that mainly practice women are less valued and their rise opportunities are lower. In considering whether we are temporarily anchoring gender-specific support, we should also remember that the principle of equality in the Austrian Constitution does not have to protect neutral legal subjects, but concrete persons. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does that apply to the Habsburg?]] Mr. Stadler! You can't talk about it, now it's about women. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm just asking you!]] It's not about Habsburg, it's about women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That would be a possibility!]] It's not about you, but it's not about you. I'm so sorry. It's neither about you nor about hatred, about your favorite word. You recognize hatred, you are the incarnation of hatred. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should let your blood pressure measure once!]] There are many ways to experience the incarnation and resurrection of hatred in your person! Individuals differ in many, not least in sex. People are equipped with privileges due to differences – as you do – on one side, and these privileges weigh – you can't repeat them often enough – actually towards the wives. It is therefore for the constitutional... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Would I be standing in "NEWS" as many times as you do with headlines... [[Abg. May. Stadler: For four weeks you've been taken out of the desk and you haven't noticed anything!]] What's going on with my desk, don't worry. He was gone six weeks ago, says your boss, and I've been informed of the transfer. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is embarrassing!]] No, that's not embarrassing! If I were to cash black money, it would be embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore necessary to observe a principle when it comes to the constitutional anchoring of equality between women and men, namely the principle of promotion, which allows the formal principle of equality to be broken down for disadvantaged groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I've said that before. In your so-called movement... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Keep reading!]] Whether I'm reading or not, you really don't care! Or? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is that what you're dealing with? That's my speaking time! In your group is a prerequisite: a loud voice organ. This is the requirement that your... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You look at me so poisonous!]] I'm looking. You're not wearing it at all! I'd rather not look at you at all, I admit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to confirm once again that my group sees in a constitutional provision a suitable means of ensuring the promotion of women. However, on the request of the Liberals, which seems to go further than our request, I should like to express my concern. In the extended list of disadvantaged groups, sexual orientation and party membership are also mentioned. That's what I'm saying: It cannot, however, be useful for a constitutional provision to describe individually all the discriminatory groups that may be considered and to remove individual prohibitions as discriminations. If one decides on such a step – which I cannot imagine – then there should be a detailed, comprehensive list, including those groups which are not mentioned in your request; I am thinking, for example, of the disabled who are not mentioned in it. – That is why we cannot agree to this paragraph, although I am in line with the content of the intention regarding discrimination of homosexuals. In November 1995, during the debate of the proposals put forward here, the word "severe battle" fell. However, I believe that it is not a matter of "gender struggle" but simply of a more quality with each other. In 2000, what is called for in the decade of equality between women and men and partnership should finally be social reality.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13734	Mrs. Dr. Brinek has now been reported on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13756	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In June 1995 the debate on the report on equal treatment for women and families in the Liberals, Brigitte Peschel, on equal treatment issues in general, confirmed the equality of all citizens in the Austrian Constitution. In reality, however, this constitutional principle must also be respected. So what we have to strive for is reality – it must probably mean: Realisation – equality. She then spoke to Member Barmüller, joined her and specified the rejection of the amendment to Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. He referred to Petrovic and said: I do not share this view that Article 7 must be amended. Barmüller literally: I am convinced that an amendment to Article 7 is not legally necessary to ensure support measures for women, as they are currently laid down in the Austrian legal system. – I join Barmüller, then like today. Let me now make a few comments on the content of today's Liberals' request: It is legitimate that a constitution which has been changed, adapted, semantically adapted, for a number of years now. However, this proposal seems to me to be, to a great extent, unsystematic and by no means modernizing. Let me compare a few examples. Although we do not live in a state-of-the-art society, the old version of Article 7, namely the anchoring of the independence of belonging to a state, has been preserved in Schmidt's application. For this the category "Class" was replaced by the very arbitrary category "social origin". However, the category "Class" is still valid throughout the whole field of humanities, social sciences and law. – Let’s have a sound term where it belongs! On the other hand, the concept of sexual orientation – as I do my own – has been highly harsh and arbitrary in many areas – I refer to a comment from the "press" of tomorrow – and that of party membership has been highly stylized to categories. – I am one who not only does a party membership and activity not agree with each other, but gives it heartily. It should also be safe for me, in any way. But the independence of party membership as a new category in Article 7 seems to me to be very, very arbitrary! Article VII(2) – I refer to the position of Barmüller and the Liberal Forum of the time, June 1995 – should suddenly establish that support measures should be taken to enforce equality between women and men. – This is not at all understandable, because not necessary. Let me make two further comments on the reasons for the request: Of course, it is not the best thing with the equal treatment of women in Austria. Many simple legislative measures must therefore be articulated first and then implemented and implemented. You certainly also have any support from the People's Party. In our opinion, however, we should not make another attempt, even in the light of EU legislation, which is certainly not worth it and which does not actually lead us to the goal. The People's Party and its women have repeatedly presented well-founded claims for partnership and continue to work unhindered to meet these demands. One example: greater flexibility in working time while ensuring the protection of workers. If the ex-SPD Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany says that we need to talk about the collective contractual guarantee of workers, I think that thought should also take place. I also think that it will also be a matter of addressing the division of pensions and pensions of women in the future. Besides, I mean, In the form of how the anchoring of this claim was made in the Coalition Convention, we can work well and permanently. I close and say: If, in view of the popular desire for animal protection, the demand arises that animal welfare and other categories and demands, once I have formulated them, are included in the Constitution relatively in any form, then I will be scared. I do not think that the principles and rules for this state should be questioned. There's work enough. We can see this when we look at the Coalition Convention. Let's go to work on this! That's enough.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13819	Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13840	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing here at first reading a planned change in the federal constitution which the Liberals now seem to seek, and if one reads through the explanatory statement in advance, one could even say from a liberal point of view, yes, the reasoning is plausible on and for itself. Of course, in the case of amendments concerning our Constitution, our basic laws and our fundamental rights, it is essential that we address the planned changes explicitly and in detail. An amendment to the Article 7 of our Federal Constitutional Act is planned; the Liberals want to extend this article. If I look at what the current Article 7 is and compare it with the corresponding regulations in Germany, namely Article 3(1) of the Basic Law, I must say that our Article 7(1) is already much more differentiated and comprehensive – more precisely, one could say. If one now also considers the Federal Constitution of the Swiss Confederation to be Comparatively, Article 4(1), then, has to be said that our current regulation is still comprehensive enough. The Liberals now want to include in Article 7(1) of the Federal Constitution, in addition to the existing regime of equality before the law regardless of birth, gender, status, class, confession, further regulations, namely on social origin, party membership, sexual orientation. All of this is to be incorporated into Article 7(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act and to overshadow it with the addition of the disadvantage or preference that would exclude it; I am now also saying that I repeat this expression of my predecessor, Brinek, because I also believe that it is the federal constitution. Only by the formulation chosen by the Liberals – additional disadvantage or preference – would an additional legal uncertainty arise, because there could again be misunderstanding and different interpretations. I also have to say: The party membership has nothing in it to look for, although the Freeman would not really affect us. [[Complaints with the liberals]] If one were to put "minority rights" into this formulation – under quotation marks – then it would still be more important for me to include the fact of people's disability in this article – and not sexual orientation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is probably not a coincidence that only recently, when it came to the amendment of the Code of Victim Care, has one deliberately not anchored the sexual orientation that has already been applied for there. That's what we want to include in the Constitution.- Oh, my God! I cannot resist the impression, and in me there is a certain suspicion that this whole request of the Liberals, which would be so beautifully interpreted as equal rights of women, is ultimately an alibi treatment, a so-called work proof against a new electoral class of the Liberal Forum. I really could not agree with that at the best. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Paragraph 2 of this paragraph is incorporated in the Liberals' proposal at the same time. He'll be in paragraph 4 there. The current right to hold official titles should be extended to include a gender formal notice – paragraph 3 in the application. There is already a system in civil service law, in which the gender name is required. I believe that it is sufficient, at least in terms of freedom of expression. A new provision – paragraph 2 in the request – was planned by the Liberals, according to which it should, as it were, be the objective of the state to promote equality between men and women. This is not about equality, it is about promoting. In 1994 the Federal Republic of Germany presented something to us, in the context of the extension of Article 3(2) of the basic law, namely that the promotion of women was expressly included in the same text. This paragraph is now being disputed with the European Court of Justice. He's been lifted! But it is not only a problem to want to imitate this now in Austria, because it has failed with the Germans, but also, above all, because this formulation of the Liberal Forum does not exclude the fact that women's individual designs of life are still being discriminated against against by women's other designs of life. This means, for example, that the reduction in the number of women who are not employed cannot be prevented from working. The aspect of gender equality cannot, of course, be separated from the aspect of equal treatment at all. That these are two different things, in the meantime both women and men, especially against the background of equality, just the opposite of gender. We in Austria are already in the middle of the difficult path of formal equality to the actual gender equality. I find it difficult – I would like to stress this again – to promote women through the federal constitution. For me, it is not clear that it is possible to create preferences for women who may or may be at the expense of young men, whose mothers have already done important educational work towards equality and equal opportunities, and who are then formally disadvantaged, namely those young men. That's not how it must be according to our sense of law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that this proposal 10/A of the Liberal Forum does not allow for an improvement of definitive equality of opportunity. But I would like to suggest: Before a further discussion on this matter, one should, of course, call the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office in advance, but also obtain various legal opinions from scientists, otherwise I would not feel a further discussion of this matter as serious.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13938	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e13959	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are, of course, very much concerned about the fact that this matter is coming back on the agenda on this request, although, of course, there is a lot to be said about it, and I would like to do so now. First of all, I would like to express the surprise – and this is probably the only thing I share with my colleague, Mr Brinek – about the change of mind at the Liberal Forum. But I am pleased about this change of mind. Because in fact: In the last very short legislative period, you have, in principle, taken a negative attitude to such views or requests that we have made during the last week, in the special session, and also voted against with arguments. Mrs Schaffenrath! There was a meeting outside of any bodies with all the women of all parties. You probably weren't there. There was a discussion on a draft law presented by the Minister. I consider at all events the idea of discussing legislative drafts, specifically those concerning, once outside bodies, free of decision-making pressure and formal criteria, for a very good suggestion. There was also a very intense conversation about it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has said that, in principle, it cannot accept such a request because equality cannot be established on the basis of the constitution. But good: They have undergone a change of mind, and this is to take note and is pleasing. But you have chosen a wording that we believe is simply too soft and does not actually correspond to what has also been demonstrated in the European Court of Justice's judgment, which is where it is supposed to lead or where a strengthening is needed. You write: "Women and men are equal. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to promote the enforcement of equality between men and women and to reduce the disadvantages." Our proposal, our proposal – and that was, as far as I can remember, the Ministry's proposal – was that measures of temporary promotion and preference of women should be allowed to speed up the actual equality between women and men. That was the point: The European Court of Justice reversed a decision at that time. He said that preferential promotion of women is not permissible because it contradicts the principle of equality. Its wording would allow this to happen again, namely that such a withdrawal is carried out, because it does not, in turn, include the possibility of temporary preference and promotion if it serves to bring about equality and equal treatment, which are intended to take place. That is what we consider to be the essential thing: that this is said so precisely to ensure what it is all about: It is about bringing about equal treatment and equality. To this end, promotions are permitted, but not only permitted, but they are also actually carried out. We will still be discussing what I see in the Constitutional Committee. I hope that, if we change the Federal Constitutional Act, we will have a clearer attitude. But if I hear this at first reading, I am concerned about the attitude of the other political groups in this House, especially that of the ÖVP on this matter. I simply don't understand the attitude of women in the ÖVP, because in many areas – and I said this a week ago – you show a very strong attitude, are very committed to women's policies and to women's rights, but always when your commitment is obviously in some contradiction to your party's general political line or to your club, your courage cannot be enforced and club pressure is bowing. I regret that. I told you last week that I did not actually understand it and that I was very surprised and also somewhat disappointed that an interview of your clubman in the "profile" – that is, I think, two weeks ago – did not come a single critical statement from the ÖVP women. They cannot all seriously believe that equality between women in the future is to be achieved by the fact that the husband, the "Oberhaupt" of the family takes time at breakfast on Sunday for the problems of the woman and the family and shares breakfast with the family. You cannot all seriously believe that all that you actually want to achieve in women's policy can be reduced to it. That was the first occasion I thought, unfortunately, even during this legislative period nothing changes that you are willing to go along with and vote in such laws. They obviously do not even want to discuss with them. I would like you not to block from the outset such initiatives, as it seems to be the case now in your speech message, but to say: Let us look at this debate, let us discuss what steps are needed in the federal constitution to bring about real equality. The fact that equality has not been given, we all agree on that. Look If you look at the quota in your party, look at the quotas at the SPÖ! These are devastating! It's really important to do something. The Greens are the only party – and I would like to say that now – that has exceeded the 50 percent rate. Take this as a model! Then there might also be some change in the substance of such legislative initiatives or decisions. I am convinced that such a constitutional change can then be implemented and that then it will be discussed quite differently and much more substantially than it has been. Now we are forced to agree on a minimum consensus instead of discussing what would be the optimum and how best to enforce the rights of women and what we want women to do. On this occasion I would like to inform you that we have brought back our requests for this matter during the last legislative period, that we do not want to read at first reading and that these applications can be dealt with together. That is the request to amend Article 7 of the Constitution, as I have read before, and that is the request for the increase of the rate of women in political bodies, a request which we have made during the last legislative period. I hope that we will then really take the opportunity in committee or outside the committee, which is also addressed to Mrs Minister, to discuss this matter again and to discuss what we can reach women across party borders. Some time ago I was at an event on women's policy at European and Austrian level. I think I've heard this example here before: In Sweden, the women of all parties meet regularly to discuss how they can bring their rights even more into the various legislative initiatives. I would just like to have a first approach to this. In this sense, I would like to say to the conclusion: I would also like to have thought and hoped that both the chancellor and the vice-channer in their statements in the main committee, which were the guidelines for the Federal Government’s views on the EU’s governance conference in 1996, would at least mention women’s issues, women’s policy as an essential point to be introduced at the EU Intergovernmental Conference, especially after such a ruling by the European Court of Justice. We have, together, all the political groups, decided during the last legislative period on a request to review the initiatives needed to achieve this equality at European level. We have adopted a proposal here – although only a minimum consensus, but after all. At least this minimum consensus or this request from the last legislative period could have been brought by the gentlemen of the Government. They should take this as a preparation for the EU Government Conference in Turin.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14022	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14052	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Khol! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech will be very short, because I would just like to make a few comments. My colleague Schaffenrath has already made the basic remarks here. But I think I must at least say that this is a change of mind, a clarification. It is true that we have rejected the Greens' request. It is true that at the time I also rejected the request of the Minister for Women. He's also something else: This request provides for the preference of women towards men, regardless of their qualifications. And that is exactly the point that we still reject today! This request would be the attempt of equality with the instrument of the erodement of the principle of equality, but not just the erodement, but even the violation of the principle of equality. For the principle of equality has two sides: not only the task of treating the same thing, but also the task of treating inequalities. That is, to treat differently qualified persons equally would be a violation of the principle of equality. We had this understanding at the time, and we still have this understanding today. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: Because you have not read our request!]] I have not only read it, but we have also strongly discussed it. I think he's wrong. That is why our rejection at the time had good reasons, and these good reasons have led us to make our own request, a request which also explains the promotion of equality between women as a sort of national objective, because we want to set a sign with it and, above all, express the awareness that this equality, as it stands on the paper, has not yet been implemented in our society and that, and this is important to me, we do not consider a promotion to be a preference. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] That was the revelation of the colleague of the Freedom Party. It has said that they are against the fact that this - I have written this down - favours women. This is your attitude: to believe that promotion programmes are a preference. That is why I am not surprised that we have different views. There is a world between you and our mental attitude. We have thought that it would be necessary, in paragraph 2, to promote equality between women and men, to anchor in the Constitution in order to ensure that the legislation already in place is safeguarded, and that there is also a constitutional status. In the UOG we have already adopted a support measure with a constitutional provision, and we have a law on equal treatment. I hope that there will be many more material decisions in this direction. But I mean, it makes sense to anchor that in the Constitution. It also makes sense – that is my firm conviction – to exclude a disadvantage due to sexual orientation and – I emphasize this – also party membership. I believe that it is a task of a society that, if it recognizes that something has developed wrong and that there is a special need for action, which is also expressed accordingly. It should do this not only by some law that may at present be corrected, but also by a sign that such misdevelopments will be avoided for the future. It is a reality – and this target orientation is not any random formulation, but one knows what it means – that this discrimination is obvious in society. It would be a task for the legislator and society to ensure that it is made clear that our constitutional rules do not only provide for such a disadvantage, but do not wish to exclude it. Therefore, the extension of this paragraph in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution, which is intended to clarify what we understand by an open society. Another comment because I was referred to it: It is true that the current paragraph 3 merely states that official designations can express the gender of the official. I think this is important that this is a must-see provision. I therefore think it is important because it is an assignment to the offices to express, if I may say so, not only the male sex in a name, but also the female. It is always argued that some women do not want to do so, therefore: How can the Liberals plan to regulate such a thing? – This is not the compulsion to the rule, but that is the production of reality. We do not want anything more than that the same right, namely that the male sex should be expressed in some titles, will also be granted to women. This is not an Oktroy, which is done in this way, but it is an adaptation to the reality to which one is also to be used in language. As we hope we agree that there is a very close relationship between language and social development – and especially in this House we learn this almost daily, at least when meetings take place – we should also promote that process of consciousness that we finally achieve equality between man and woman through language. This is the background of our consideration. I hope that, in the Constitutional Committee, we will be able to deal with both the Greens and the Liberals, with a specific approach, with no emotion and, hopefully, with a positive success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14101	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Konrad. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14122	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to make a few comments on the comments that have been made here. In fact, little space has been given to the chapter on women, family and youth in the Coalition Agreement. I understand that many criticize the fact that this chapter has not been dealt with in very detailed terms. However, I would also like to say very clearly here that I understand this - and I know in the association with other ministers - that what is listed in this chapter is at best a list of those projects which we will at least start. In other words, it is those areas in which we want to become active in all cases. But I also say - and this applies to women's policy - that there will also be many more projects which are not explicitly included in this coalition agreement. That's what I've come up with this evening. As you know and as you have pointed out, in the past legislative period I have put in place a draft which seeks to amend the Federal Constitutional Act to ensure that the actual equality between women and men is enshrined in the Constitution as a state target. In addition – and this is what my proposal goes beyond the present draft of the Liberal Forum – the admissibility of women's promotion should be explicitly defined. To realize this project – the time was too short for it – we did not succeed in the expired legislative period. That does not mean that this issue is from the table. Their words prove that this is an important issue. I would like to stress once again what I started last year, namely that all of us, together all the political groups in this House, are looking for a formulation that we may all be able to agree with. [[General condolences.]] You can probably remember that the Constitutional Service has sent this intended change to review. It is also true that, in part, legitimate criticism has also been exercised. But this is based on the fact that there has been so many misunderstandings. If I summarize the criticism and what has come back as a statement of opinion, then I can say that, above all, those who have to do with the implementation of practical equality, i.e. the organisations concerned, have expressed very positively and said that this is necessary as a sign that contributes to promoting the de facto equality of women and men. There have been other criticisms; some of them have already been mentioned. In any event, however, it was never intended to call into question the general principle of equality in the Constitution. It has never been a question of preferring women with lower qualifications. This was not meant to happen, but it has always been a question of women coming to the train with equal qualifications. We certainly have to deal with this issue. I'd like to invite you to that. If you agree, I will set up such a forum as last year. I think that we have already drawn closer to each other during the debate last year. For example, last November we adopted a resolution, which was jointly supported by a number of parties, in which we have worked towards the development of EU law in the direction of the actual equality between women and men. This resolution was a response to the judgment of the European Court of Justice. This judgment has not, by the way, lifted the German Constitution, because the European Court of Justice has nothing at all to do with it. However, it has found that a certain automatic quota is not permitted. However, other forms of women's promotion are, of course, acceptable and desirable, as is the case with the ECJ judgment. The question has also been raised: How does this relate to our legal situation? – As the Department for European Integration of the Federal Chancellor's Office has informed me, the question of the admissibility of the Austrian regulations is not clearly answered by the vague statements in the judgment at present. Who But you certainly know that a new procedure is pending, and in this respect there will still be some progress. The Austrian Federal Government – which has been stimulated, and I can already bring an implementation message in this regard – has already taken steps to promote real equality at European level. In the context of the Austrian positions for the Intergovernmental Conference of the European Union, which will take place in Turin at the end of March, we have drawn up proposals to be sent to the Council of Ministers next week. I can tell you that we want to start at several levels and that it is essentially a question of defining equality policy as the objective of the European Union, i.e. to include equality policy in the target catalogue so that the other policies of the European Union also take account of this equal treatment policy. However, the central point of the reform of the EU Constitution is the provision extending the principle of equality of pay to a general command of equal treatment for women and men. With the exception of this, the European Court of Justice has already provided for this further development in a very women-friendly court. Finally, all those specific measures to promote real equality should continue to be permitted – I quote literally – "which are factually justified and also appropriate to meet the objective of actual equality". That means that it is also about adequate and proportionate support. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the Austrian Federal Government, I believe, and you will agree with me, is well prepared to contribute a little for women at European level. Of course, it is also important in Austria to eliminate ambiguities in the Constitution and to send clear signals of an equal future for women and men. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish, of course, that we do so together and that we can do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14189	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 10/A to the Constitutional Committee. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Election of Austrian representatives to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14226	So we get to the 11th. Agenda item: Election of Austrian representatives to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On the basis of an agreement at the Presidential Conference and the nominations of the political groups, the National Council shall elect six members and two substitute members. I have the following constituency proposal: Members should be elected by Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Dr. Willi Fuhrmann, Edeltraud Gatterer, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Peter Schieder, Dr. Walter Schwimmer, as replacement members the MEPs Hans Helmut Moser and Herbert Scheibner. There are no words available for this purpose. Since we have only one motion for a resolution, I suggest that we make use of the possibility of taking the vote, not by voting, but by standing up and sitting within the meaning of Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. So we can take the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the just announced election proposal to give a sign of approval. I am pleased to note the unanimous election of Austrian representatives to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The election is done with it. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-20-020-XX-NRSITZ-00013_d7e14305	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in requests 143/A to 148/A. Questions 324/J to 335/J have also been raised. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 21. March 1996, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The meeting is closed.
