ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1406	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you all. I also welcome the ladies and gentlemen who are following this debate on television and on other media. I'll open the 11th. Meeting of the National Council. I should also like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council very warmly today. [[General condolences.]] I declare that the Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Prinzhorn, Elmecker, Dr. Rasinger, Dr. Mock and Dr. Schwimmer are prevented. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1449	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that a number of Members in connection with the formation of the Federal Government have waived their mandates, namely Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Dr. Johannes Ditz, Dr. Caspar Einm, Dr. Werner Fassleven, Dr. Benita Maria Ferrero-Waldner, Elisabeth Gehrer, Franz Hums, Mag. Viktor Klima, Dr. Helga Konrad, Dr. Christa Krammer, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Mag. Karl Schlögl, Dr. Rudolf Scholten, Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselund Dr. Franz Vranitzky, as well as Johannes Voggenhuber. The members of the Federal Government will therefore no longer be members of the National Council. Instead of Deputies Dr. Bartenstein, Member Johannes Zweytick, instead of Deputies Dr. Ditz of Deputies Franz Kampichler and instead of Deputies Dr. To advocating Mrs. Dr. Irmtraut Karlsson appointed the National Council. The term of office of Mr Dr Fassleven will be given to Member Dr Michael Spindelegger, the term of office of Mrs Ferrero-Waldner of Mr Werner Amon, the term of office of Mrs Gehrer, by Mrs Gertrude Brinek. In addition, the mandate of the honourable Member's colleague, Mr Mag, was given. Johann Maier, on the term of office of Deputies Mag. Climate of Deputies Dr. Alfred Gusenbauerand the free-standing mandate of Deputies Dr. Konrad of Deputies Dr. Wolfgang Reiterbehren. Member of the Verena Dunst follows the previous Member Dr. Krammer. In addition, it has been replaced by the honourable Member Mag. Molterer of Deputies Matthias Ellmauer, instead of Deputies Mag. Schlögl of Deputies Dr. Johann Stippelund, instead of Deputies Dr. Scholt, appointed the National Council for Members Gabriele Binderin. The term of office of Dr. Schüssel is given to Member Franz Morak, Member of Parliament Dr. Vrannitzky, who has been released. Elisabeth Pittermann, and finally the free-standing mandate of Johannes Voggenhuberdeputy Mag. Doris Kammerlander. The electorate is available, the attractors are present in the house. I would therefore ask you to make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the above-mentioned mandates will make their fishing observation with the words "I vow". I should like to ask Mrs Reitsamer to read the vow formula as a writer and to make the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1580	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1604	I warmly welcome all my colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1632	The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, by letter of 11. In March it announced that it will be located abroad for a few hours this evening and tomorrow morning and in that time according to Art. 69 para. 2 the Federal Constitution is represented by Mr Vice-Chancellor. The members of the Presidential Conference have been informed of this in advance. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1653	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1790	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the honourable Member. Stadler has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to the Federal Constitutional Law Novelle 1996 a period of until 12. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member There is no need for a debate. The motion for a resolution will therefore be put to the vote in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Let's go into the agenda. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1818	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design of the debate as follows: The debate will be limited to ten hours, with the following speaking times: SPÖ 150 minutes, ÖVP 140, Free 130, Liberal Forum and Greens per 90 minutes. The term of office of the Court of Justice of First speakers must not exceed 40 minutes. All other speakers should have a speaking time of up to 15 minutes each. If a member of the Federal Government speaks for more than 20 minutes in the debate, the extent of the excess should be taken into account in the speaking time of the associated group. Is there any objections to this proposal? – This is not the case after everyone has listened closely. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Discussion on the Federal Government Declaration
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1854	We are now entering the debate on the Federal Government's statement, and I give the floor to Mr Dr. Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e1875	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The development ahead of us points out that, in the next few years, much will be going on and will also change for Austria, both in the political and in the economic sphere. Today, it is often a turn of events before us, the talk that has to do not only with the fact that the turn of the millennium is about to take place and the period before that is always a time of uncertainty and uncertainty, but above all with the fact that, in the context of an increasingly connected world economy, there is a scenario that cannot leave us without concern. This is a scenario of which we know that in Austria too, in the case of rising unemployment, the trend towards a two-thirds society, in which only one third will have reliable and secure jobs, is continuing. But we also know that we have another challenge to face in that the opening of the East to the reform states and to other states of the former Eastern bloc and the Warsaw Pact will also lead to a massive deindustrialization of Austria. We also know that, in the case of all the perfection of the welfare state, as we have it here in Austria, there are also major problems of distribution justice, because finally and finally, despite the supposed wealth of our society, we are faced with growing poverty in a no longer inviolable area of our population. At the same time, however, this welfare state is also very strongly drawn by group egoism and has reached the limits of its financial viability in many areas. The thoughts and principles of the market economy, which we have believed to have gained the victory over eastern philosophy with the case of the Iron Curtain, as it were, philosophically-spiritually, more and more of an international cartel, which is partly very generous, where the competition of the little ones, but the supremacy of the great ones, determines the market, the jobs and the possibilities of the people. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany rightly pointed out this globalisation yesterday in his statement of government, as I believe. For me, however, the question arises which consequences he derives from it in his statement of government. Can it be enough to say that the government has decided to discuss this or that question? Would it not have been right, Mr Bundeskanzler, to explain to us at least a consequence of your process of knowledge, a consequence that is important for the Austrians and for the safety of the people, namely to say how it really goes on economically? A globalisation of our economic conditions, the huge international competition would have required an Austrian head of government to say: Our chance in the future lies primarily in a clear focus in favour of the medium-sized industrial economy in Austria! These are companies which are a reliable anchor for jobs and safety. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is the middle class, Mr Bundeskanzler, which you completely ignored yesterday, but which is really the anchor for stability and jobs, the commercial-industrial medium-sized country, which in Austria is, so to speak, the economic structure that is not homeless, which does not produce like the international corporations there today and tomorrow. – To this end I would also like to count the company Siemens, which has been strongly favoured by this federal government, which now produces the entire software program of its home with about 200 engineers in India. There is no longer the talk of the well-trained Austrians, but it is relocated for cost reasons and locked and dismantled by us. I would also have expected you to say: In order to provide this medium-sized country with better framework conditions, we need to create a slim state in which clear cost reduction programmes are defined! - I missed all of this. They continue those policies which you have already announced in 1986. You keep telling us you're a refurbishment coalition. . I can remind you that you have already spoken in 1986 about the clogs on the budget leg, in a comment you yourself have written for an economic magazine. There it says: "Klotz am Budgetbein: The field of personnel expenditure, social security, federal enterprises including ÖBB deficit..." – Ladies and gentlemen, has the ÖBB deficit become smaller to this day? – Since you took on responsibility when we still had to invest around 30 billion schilling for the deficit coverage of the ÖBB, the need for a grant has increased to 44 billion schilling. Is this reform? Is the rehabilitation partnership you've been talking about for nine years? Unfortunately, you are what you can read from the media again and again: You are more an administrator than a designer of the future of the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now we need those who design. What you offered us as a government statement was more or less a cemetery of keywords, a fireworks of non-bindingness. In reality, this declaration of government is a work of spiritual insolence because it does not include optimistic future prospects for this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would also like, because your cohorts, Mr Bundeskanzler, have immediately expressed their displeasure, the evidence of this accusation that I am making you, do not remain guilty – if you want to do so, also your Pratorian Guards, colleague Guggenbicler. [[Call the SPÖ:Guggenberger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The lower art of hollow phrases is also found in this declaration of government on all sides. On the other hand, it is not about the future of Austria, but about the question: How does Parliament feel, how can an effective opposition be eliminated by the lack of any room for coalition? On the other hand, there is a philosophy on how the composition of the EU Advisory Boards and Commissions should be so that the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister can exercise equal power within the framework of the EU. And there are blank formulas produced over the jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! You say that we need an employment offensive, but do exactly the opposite by changing the framework conditions, such as through the loss premium and by removing important investment aid. This leads to the fact that the "Economic Sheet" has already been entitled: Investors are mad. Austria lost to attractiveness through this saving and burden package of the government. – You must not be surprised if this causes bad mood! If you were really working so well, you would not need 30 or more constitutional provisions to carry out your programme, but in a just way would change the framework conditions for our economy in such a way that there are more jobs, but above all there is optimism in the economy that could cause many investments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You wouldn't have to take refuge in hollow phrases, Mr. Bundeskanzler, for example: The skilled worker must finally receive his long-term recognition. – Consequences? – You are nine years in this government, for nine years you have not come to mind, but you have not had any consequences today, for example, in the form that every construction worker trying to continue in the months of winter unemployment and, for example, going to the polishing school at an HTL is treated as you have done. No, no, no, This is an immediate deletion of unemployment support. Is that your recognition for the skilled? – You will have to think more about it than you will continue to repeat it and not offer any solutions to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They are so pleased that this government will be in office beyond the year 2000. Their declaration of government is a sign without notice, is a sunglass for the dark chamber, but not something to recognize the future course of this government. Or do you really believe that you will create an incentive for investment in Austria with the removal of the loss report – it should be deleted retroactively? Faith You really are saying that you will secure the economic location by means of a profit tax, which, even Mr President, is stupidly negative in the public. Faith You really are saying that you will achieve employment results with a tax on rental interest rates, which have led to thousands of jobs being secured in the construction and construction sector. Faith You really are going to give optimism to small and medium-sized enterprises with the removal of the operating-cost. Faith You really are going to boost exports with the removal of export credit claims that have not yet been introduced? – You speak quite differently than you then act, ladies and gentlemen! Faith You really are saying with an energy tax, the scientist, that it will lead to a loss of 8,000 jobs without reducing labour costs, employment policy? Faith You really are saying that you will be making a successful job policy with the removal of construction aid in the sense that the Wienerberger "General" says this will cost us 10,000 jobs. Faith Do you really think that you will achieve success with annihilation of the "builder models" as so-called loss participations, through which there are thousands of jobs in the medium-sized and medium-sized sector? 150 million Schilling for an average investment in the rehabilitation and housing sector for loss participations means an increase of 10 million Schilling for the Minister of Finance in two years. But in this way it will have to give up about 150 million schilling projects on 200 jobs, because that is no longer happening. Consider once, Minister Climate, what 200 unemployed people cost. – 200 000 to 220 000 S costs the public hand a unemployed person. That's 40 million schilling that costs you this measure, alone in a project, so you can take 10 million schilling more taxes. It's crazy how you expect it to be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let the economy work! Let people invest, and do not delete those things that have already been important for employment! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Which lobbies are you addressing?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit in the protected area!]] For you as an authorised and pragmatic university professor, I cannot speak to you who so to speak securely sitting down and constantly talking about competition. You do not know, Mr Novotny, what competition is called. For It is only the hair of Pragmatization that makes us break our head! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor said yesterday: Politicians can no longer answer all questions. - That's right, I agree. But you should at least give some answers. Because if you don't give any more, just like that, then I have to say, it's a little poor. If you don't answer the important questions... – I do not try to insult him too much. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There he is already touched again! That's where he's going back to the smog angle!]] But I have to tell him that, otherwise if he does not accept these challenges of economic and employment policy, as I have outlined it, as chancellor of unemployment in that Republic, he will be the managing director responsible for the decline of the Austrian company. You all know that. I am surprised that social democracy on the issue of employment policy has become so insensitive. What will Mr Old President Benya think he is listening to today? – There have been times when social democracy has still been fought for jobs. Today there is a government that is destroying all that leads to more employment so that it can meet the Maastricht criteria in the short term in order to be able to say the same in the European context: We're a pattern student. We don't want this, ladies and gentlemen. We want a lively medium-sized economy that secures jobs here in Austria! This must be a priority in our future policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us talk about the major structural reforms that this government is now dealing with, which should actually make it better. What are the structural reforms in bureaucracy? How do you want to reduce the level of bureaucracy in the economy if you have a work contract system that is so complicated that additional administrative staff will be needed in order to be able to handle it at all? Our group told you yesterday how complicated and how wrong the bonus malus system is. On the question of wage accounting. Mr Ditz has been talking for years about the harmonization of the basis of assessment for the wage-dependent taxes in the field of farms. – Not a word of death on such reforms is included in this declaration of government. Or: One is talking about reducing bureaucracy in the central offices. And then you get a newsletter of the staff of the Minister of the Future Scholten of the 20th century. On 1 February 1996, the staff of his own ministry protested that Mr Scholten was already setting up new groups and departments in his ministry. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] So the increase in bureaucracy is on the move! The letter states in the explanatory statement: "Because this arrangement by the Federal Minister not only contradicts the savings measures ordered by the Federal Government, but is, in our view, illegal." [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is strong tobak!]] Mr Klima tells us that everything is now being reduced to reduce red tape. But his own employees tell us how it actually works. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question is: If there is nothing going on in the area of bureaucracy, when might something be going on in the area of social security? Where, then, have the confessions announced before the National Council election been founded? It has been said that we will have to start to put the social security institutions together. Where are the appropriate measures? – They're just getting deeper to the citizen's pocket. The employees in the social insurance institutions will continue to be able to buy up to ten years of pension at a special rate. Every normal-death social insured person in Austria will have to spend a lot of time on this. If someone has 30 000 S gross per month, then he has to buy his schooling and studies. – This costs him about 350 000 S. If an employee of a social security institution also wants to buy up his school and study periods at the same salary, this costs him not 350 000 S, but about 35 000 S. I ask you: What is the basis for this benefit and the authorisation? Why don't you eliminate these things if you want to build new structures in this country? Why are you not talking about the fact that the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse is in fact pleading because it has to finance 450 million Schilling's special pension rights for employees and the Bones, while at the same time correcting and worsening the benefits for the socially insured sick? – These would have been structural reforms, as we imagine them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why do you not say that structural changes would also be carried out in the area of the Austrian Federal Railways? [[Abg. Edler: What?]] Which means: What? He has still not heard that we have more subsidies to make to the railway today than we had to do at the beginning of the reform. He has still not understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the railway cannot even set an opening record – be careful, colleague! – because the Republic of Austria has not yet paid the old debt! There's still about 17 billion schilling. This is the responsibility of this Minister of Finance, who now supposedly wants to make such a great deal of order. That's a mess of excellence. Mr Ditz, who has been so opposed to a new fund by which new debts should be made for a rail investment, has now agreed that debt should be made again in order to get the marode company over the rounds. – That, ladies and gentlemen, are your "structural reforms"! The same applies to mail. Don't tell me that the post is all the best! 110 billion schilling debt you have been putting on in the last years of this post-existence because you have used money that has earned the post to stop the budget holes. Result: Your "structural reform" looks like you have now set up a pleiteholding for the post, in which 45 billion schilling debts are packed, and hope to be able to go to the stock exchange with this company once. I wish you good luck with this company you started here! If the Republic of Austria continues to be liable for 21 billion Schilling pensions for former postal staff in the future, I wonder: Where's the reform you're talking about? Or: Where is the reform in pension insurance, if we have a system today, according to which the retired worker per year gets shot by the public hand to his pension, the pension of the trader is already subsidized with 96 000 S, the pension of the farmer is subsidized with 74 000 S and that of the official with 206 000 S? Now I'm wondering, Would that not be a reason to really change something, rather than grab the little ones into the bag, instead of taking away the hardworking at the overtime rather than making life angry those who work hard in this republic? Reforms need to be implemented here, through a harmonisation, through a merger of pension and social security law! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: For example, I read in the government statement: Loading opening hours shall be made appropriate with the involvement of the social partners. – For God's sake, this is a dangerous threat! The social partners will decide whether to lock up or not. That is to say, those who have so far been for prison and non-stop take the lead over this government! This is an antique model. That is where Mr Bundeskanzler talks about globalisation, about the global competitive wind, and then the social partners will again decide not to be locked up. You must change your way of thinking once, ladies and gentlemen! Only with work and with competitiveness will we win the future, not lock it up, with nothing and with redistribution! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You always want an employee who doesn't work and can't earn anything so he depends on you. We want someone who can earn so that he is free and doesn't need a premeditation by institutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Government Declaration further states: Access to industrial activity should be facilitated. - Delicious: It's easy to make! In any other country, you are in favour of free access to commercial practice. People should also be independent if they want to do something independently. They risk their own money. With us, competition in the Chamber decides whether a new competitor may enter the market. - That's ridiculous! ==References== At the end of the century, the Upper Kämmerers are dumb and Madethaner and defend their competences in the chamber state, instead of letting the people work, Mr. Madethaner, so that there is at least economic success. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: decades back!]] In reality, this declaration of government is a document that the chamber state has won once again. In principle, everything that is not expressly permitted in this country is prohibited in the future. – That’s a principle we can’t start with. There is no change, everything gets more expensive, a little lower quality and a little less performance are associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing you have agreed on so far is the money acquisition action that will take place in the short term. A compulsory bond is issued to all Austrians: Intensification of the provisions on 13 and 14. Monthly salary, withdrawal of allowances and much more. A new toll system has been spirited through the room in the last few days. Mr Ditz, who is also Minister for Tourism, was so sensitive that one day before the opening of the International Tourism Exchange in Berlin, where Austrian tourism advertising is still only represented with a very modest state of mind, to break the idea of a beautification of the fence, with the result that Austria has become an enemy image for those guests we really want to get into the country. You really can't do it any more, Minister of Economic Affairs, than you did! You should think about what damage you are doing to the economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There was once a Vice-Chancellor who said before the election: We will save and not introduce any burdens. He's called Wolfgang Schüssel. And this vice chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel spoke of "intelligent saving". [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: My name has not changed!]] The name has not changed, but the mind attitude has become another. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because before the National Council elections, this dynamic Wolfgang Schüssel wanted to save intelligently. What happened to it? Where is the intelligent saving? Is it intelligent, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, to make such a proposal for a toll that puts us internationally in such a negative headline that tourism falls off if we fail to enforce it anyway? Is it intelligent to maintain subsidies, just so the newspapers write kindly: Do we continue to obtain 300 million schillings, which the Federal Chancellor will distribute out of his shatz in order to have a fair weather report? Is it really intelligent, Dr. Schüssel, that we are fighting over the kindergarten billions, but elegantly beyond the fact that the Austrian federal railways, due to excessive tariffs, are bringing out additional 700 million schilling from the family tax compensation fund? – Where is your intelligent saving? Where's your heart for the families? I would have thought that you were so intelligent that you would at least click on the table on these questions and say: If this is not eliminated, if not cost-truth also occurs in promoting the ÖBB, then we are not willing to drop the kindergarten billions and put 700 million schilling into the ÖBB subsidy from family funds! – That would have been an intelligent proposal you could have made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where is the intelligent saving, the fact that one says: The Chambers should also contribute to the restoration of this state, those who have regulated us so far, so that nothing could go further in this Republic? – President Maderthaner has already fled anyway because he knows that I am saying to him today: It cannot be demanded by the Federal Government and by the Federal Government that the task of Pragmatization be done, while Pragmatization is abolished for its own chamber staff, but a supplementary pension of 2 billion is granted in return. Dr. Stumbling! Read the Federal Chamber Control Report! You will see that hundreds of millions of schilling from external trade finance have been relocated to finance the cover for these supplementary pensions. They go out here and talk about competition, cost-truth, a strengthening of the competitiveness of the domestic economy, while removing a number of support from the export industry. In fact, this shows the whole of the immeasurability of politics here. Outside, you speak differently than you vote here. That is exactly what we must gradually make clear to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where is the administrative reform? 22 percent of employees in Austria are public servants. - Well, we have too high a share. It is 15 percent in Germany, 12 percent in Switzerland. We do not have a Ministry of Construction anymore, but we have a building section in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is essentially unchanged. Why don't we give these skills to the countries and do it once? Or: We no longer have mining in Austria, but we have mountain captains, and we have a mountain captain's administration throughout Austria. This government does not decide to make some sort of order. It should continue to be possible for a few to intervene if they need a gravel pit, so that the head of the mountain, who does not have to comply with industrial law, can also approve gravel pits by means of intervention. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Officially, this government opposes the Pragmatizations. But the same government, for example, creates pragmatized university assistants in the competition area of universities through a university teacher service law. If an assistant is not capable of habilitating and thus entering the path of the scientist, then you do not need to pragmatize him, but there you have to make room for better qualified people, so that the young people are really taught properly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister Klima! You're talking about administrative simplification. Yesterday we had the case here in the house that the cultural institute had a language-gembH. the distribution of more staff and two directors, which will increase costs by one third. – Is this your structural change that you have told the Austrians so much about in recent weeks? I would very much like to have an answer to why something is constantly being propagated with keywords, but in everyday practice it is quite different. I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to think about the following: Why, Minister of Finance, can the HTM be destroyed? The winnings of the Austrian tobacco will get you if they are not wasted for the HTM-debakel. 800 million schillings have already flown into the HTM, but nothing more belongs to us. Rather, it stands at the door of bankruptcy or compensation. That would have been a dividend for you to finance the budget. Or: State printing. A new offset line is now being built in state printing. This will plunder the reserves of state printing, which at least account for between 600 and 700 million schilling, which will be invested there in order to create 150 jobs. In Vienna, however, 300 jobs are eliminated by locking up the institutions of state printing. – What is this economic policy? I don't understand why you're not going into these areas. They are still giving ERP support, and the Vienna City Councillor Edlinger is chairman of the ERP Fund and is looking at how 300 jobs are destroyed in Vienna so that 150 new jobs with EU funding can be created on the border with the Burgenland. At the same time, the reserves of Austrian state printing are looted to the extent of 600 to 700 million schilling. Why Think Don't you think about structural changes in public procurement? – It ticks a time bomb, Mr. Finanzminister, regarding the airport operating company in Vienna. This has been built in recent years when you were still Transport Ministers and your observers and representatives also had on the Supervisory Board. You know very well that in recent years alone, instead of 350 million Schilling, a total of more than 780 million Schilling has been built for the airport operating company's construction project. You know very well that there are destructive opinions from the examiners that hundreds of millions of schilling have been freely granted – free of charge! – that there are irregularities in the billing of the architects that the millions have been pushed back and forth like on a shift station. How can you answer that? Your own expert and tax specialist, Dr. Nolz, who developed the tax package, is the head of the Supervisory Board of this airport operating company. There he does not have the opportunity to make order, but if, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board there, he leaves hundreds of millions of schilling away, then he puts on the tax screw here, and the Austrians have to take over the failure liability again. That's not gonna work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the federal real estate company: Now we have a federal real estate company, in addition to a Federal Building Administration I and a Federal Building Administration II. Explain to me where the administrative reform lies! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is like the language course!]] Apart from that, I believe that this federal real estate company is only there to give the construction companies the orders in the ownership of the state banks. 3 billion schillings are now signed out by the BIG – you all know – but such orders can only be obtained if you offer a financing for 15 years. Who can do that? Can this be done by the medium-sized construction contractor? [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Yes, sure!]] They say: Yeah, sure. Talk to the middle-sizes! Get out of your ivory tower, Dr. Schüssel! You haven't been working in the economy yet, but at least talk to one who has to fight there, then you'll understand how things work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Please! Were you, Dr. Haider?]] 15 years pre-financing for construction projects that make up hundreds of millions of schilling, of course, the banks' own construction companies can do better than the small private, which has no such good standing at the bank. There will be the universals for the CA and Porr for Bank Austria and perhaps Mr. Hazelsteiner will see their possibilities for the GiroCredit, but that's what it's all about. If the government's aim is to design those public contracts that are still available in such a way that the bank's own construction companies are rehabilitated at the expense of the ruin of the medium-sized commercial companies in Austria, then you will find our bitter resistance. We're not going to join them! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am expecting statements from the Minister for Economic Affairs, who in this way does not make himself a lawyer for the medium-sized economy, but becomes a lightweight sailor on the leaky ship of the state banks and thus provides services which are not good for overall development. Ladies and gentlemen! Why have you not acted on the question of the reduction of privileges? The "Standard" quoted yesterday the National Bank, the Federal Chamber, the Chamber of Workers, all say: We're not going to take care of the privilege reduction, we're autonomous. – But in the Government Declaration and the Coalition Agreement, it is as if something else could be moved. Ladies and gentlemen! They will be disappointed by the Austrians when they have to read that the lunch of the Director General of the Austrian National Bank, which earns 3 million schillings, 4 million schillings, 5 million schillings a year, is subsidized with 100 s that the rulers who carry millions of salaries home will be provided with 17 s per square meter in the favors of the city of Vienna, while every small worker in this Republic, especially in Vienna, will no longer receive an apartment under 70 s per square meter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is your order-making work in this area, which you have so propagated? They are much faster when it comes to putting on the little ones and the weak. At the National Bank everything remains with the old, in the chambers everything remains with the old, about political privileges we talk about only next year – but for those disabled who are in home care, we have Cut the pocket money immediately to 550 S per month. Skill Don't you imagine that around 550 s you can't buy a lot of clothing, you can't buy a lot of footwear, you can't afford a lot of leisure time? Disabled people are also people who have a right to be able to shape their leisure time. [[Abg. Rider: I don't know!]] They shake the head because you've never been to a home and don't know how it goes to a young person who's had a car accident and then to live at once with 550 s pocket money a month. You should think about it, ladies and gentlemen, also about the fact that the exemption for the disabled is still being removed, and the fact that only more than 1 000 S are assigned to the National Fund for the Disabled. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This shows the real social attitude of this government. This is a voodoo policy that is being made there, voodoo singer of the Federal Chancellor: visionless, inconceivable and forward-looking. I'll tell you: There are much better alternatives. Why not go the way, through degressive transfer payments, through a slender, powerful state, by reducing labour costs, to change the framework conditions in such a way that something is going better in this country? – You have a bad conscience, because many of the measures that have been discussed in the last few days have already passed. Mrs Konrad: Although she is in favour of the tax package in the government, she goes to the demonstrators and says she is against it anyway. That is, she is demonstrating against herself, against what she has decided herself. She should have voted against it! [[Abg. May. Stadler: But she said she should have resigned!]] There is no decision in the government which does not need to be taken unanimously. But then she should have resigned and lost her posterl. It seems that this is still the security anchor for the conscience worm, Mrs Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I ask you to give me this in writing, because I cannot follow the speed of your language. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the Austrian Trade Union Confederation: The Austrian Trade Union Confederation, ladies and gentlemen, has agreed to these measures – but at the same time the ladies are going to demonstrate. The head of the trade union says: This is a non-social, non-balanced package! And in Tyrol, the Chamber of Labour protests. Mr. Mayor Häupl is at all the best: He sits in the negotiating committee, agrees with everything, but outside he protests against himself! [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Maderthaner also!]] Example: 5. February 1996: Häupl agrees with the stress measures in the SPÖ presidency. 6. February 1996: Häupl explains in Vienna: Vienna agrees with the burden! 7. 2. 1996: First resistance to the savings package. Häupl says to the address of the German compatriots: You'll meet me. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] 8. 2. 1996: Heupl again agrees with the burden in the SPÖ board. Thursday, 2. February 1996: Häupl has no joy with karenz regulations; Unbalanced savings package. - So there's one more thing to know! There's really the question: Who's stronger, me or me? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the feeling that the Federal Chancellor plays a little part in the role of Munich: Before the election, he promises to the people something he knows he can't keep it. Baron Münchhausen is sitting in the Federal Government today, explains to us that EU accession will save us 1 000 S per month due to appropriate approvals – it does not work. Mr Münchhausen-Vranitzky explains that women's rights must not be affected – and then reduces the time of birth and kindergarten billions, the situation of the single holder worsens. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Funny joke!]] Mr. Münchhausen-Vranitzky explains that there are no pension cuts – the "Krone" titled yesterday: "The pensions are also covered by retirement provisions" – and much more. Munich-Vranitzky says: Pensions are best secured with jobs! But he has the highest unemployment we have had in Austria over the past 35 years. Münchhausen-Vranitzky explains to us in leaflets that flexibilising working time would be an attack on the overtime supplements of employees, which he lets us align in the SPÖ's election programme. Now he's talking about flexibilization. Suddenly, Mr. Sallmutter can also imagine the removal of overtime. Now the ÖGB can suddenly imagine that daily working time is not eight, but ten, twelve, thirteen hours. What you promised before the election is sound and smoke! You said: We must not forget that these measures are being put in place so that the bowl party and the shark party do not do all these terrible things! Now she produces Munich-Vranitzky herself.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2315	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2331	Yes. – Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to say: With this declaration of government, Münchhausen wrote another chapter. The ÖVP has become the brink of this Munich House; it is the wig on the unscrupulous head of social democracy, which plays a part in all these things, which here says about those measures that strain the domestic economy that force the hardworking to kneel. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The speaking time is over!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2360	The speaking time is over, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2376	This will ultimately help to prevent Austria from finding an orderly future. It is therefore time for this government to change its course – or the Austrians will grant it a sensitive rejection.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2406	The next speaker is Dr. Kostelka. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! – Mr Haider! Their speeches rarely give real reason to deal with them. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He can't do that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Such a weakmate!]] I hope you understand that I am saving myself today, because I am giving up – not even the first, but the 432. – election statements at the beginning of a four-year legislative period do not give any reason to deal with them. The only act of imagination you have made was that in the final phase of your debate contribution in the literature of your youth – once again with the exclusive and only goal to insult – you have become offended. Dr. Haider! Let yourself be said: To help shape the policy of this republic, it takes a little more to tell than child fairy tales. At last you have to consider alternatives, not just cheap criticism from the election campaign. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is all the more so than the decision taken by the Austrians on 17 November. In December, it was a very far-reaching one, with which fundamental changes have taken place for the future of the Republic. This decision only dealt with the 1996 budget in advance. In reality, it was not agreed whether to be saved in our Republic, but how. The SPÖ has been known from the beginning for its saving policy. We were of the opinion that what we need is a change in expenditure policy, but not a change in the basic social consensus of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are in favour of budgetary reorganisation because we have social-democratic interest in a financially healthy and strong state. Only a financially healthy and strong state will be able to provide the individual with the protection he needs in order to get over the rounds if he can no longer help himself – if he gets sick when he loses work if he is disabled when he changes from active working life to retirement. It is our understanding of a state that it is at the side of and helps each one, and this requires good financial resources. Not any abstract monetary criteria in Maastricht are crucial for us, but the maintenance of the social state. And there has been a need for action because we have experienced economic downturns from 1992 to 1994 and – and this too must be added – because we have set social measures to an extent that we have hardly ever set before, awaiting better economic development: Family promotion, care and second year of leave. All of this was indicative additional social measures for which we did not find the financial base sufficiently. It was therefore not a withdrawal, not a reduction of the social state, but necessary corrections to its maintenance. Our opinion was and is – we have made it clear in the election campaign –: Yes for saving and no for system change. Social democracy stands for the social state and not for a welfare state, as you have expressly declared it today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to create these conditions, we are in favour of a policy of savings, which calls for almost the same victims, which means that the amounts to be contributed by each and every one must be very different. Those who earn more, who have a higher income, should make a higher contribution according to their incomes, the socially weak are largely to be saved. This question is the election decision of the 17th century. ==References====External links== It was a direction decision. A decision with which the Austrians have also left no doubt: They have equipped the Social Democratic Party with great confidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have also essentially confirmed the Austrian People's Party in its strength. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Strengthened!]] However, they clearly rejected the leadership claim that the Austrian People's Party had filed in the course of this election campaign, which was the real reason for these elections. What the Austrians wanted and want is a cooperation under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party and its objectives. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The ÖVP does not clap!]] Due to the punctuality of the election campaign, an interpretation of the electoral decision of the nature can also be obtained from the results of the election. The voters have said, in their electoral behaviour, that they are a social state, namely, an Austrian social state whose very essence is to be available not only in times of the high economy, but regardless of the economic situation – with all the need for its financial security – to be available to the individual. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This social state is ultimately the reason why the Austrians are so positive to their country by a vast majority. They also love it because of its landscaped beauty, but especially because it is a good place to live. And it is a good place to live, especially because they find social security here and are not mercilessly handed over to the illustrious of fate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, once again: Save yes, but preserve the social system. Corrections, yes, but balanced, depending on social stratification, contribute to this. ==References====External links== In December, a higher, further task was given, namely the task of addressing and implementing the necessary reforms with consequence, in line with the social change in our country. And in the end, they commissioned us to cooperate on a broad basis. The election result was a rejection of tactical maneuvers, elections and elections. These demands, ladies and gentlemen, are in line with the labour agreement. In the foreground – but you should not see it alone – stands a consolidation package of 100 billion schilling. These 100 billion schillings are applied in the context of the demands of social democracy for a socially balanced and fair allocation of the contributions of the individual Austrian. That was what we were doing during the negotiations on the night from 11 to 12. In October 1995, those who can afford to do so also had to make such contributions. If you call it a solidarity levy, you call it different, for example, the deletion of special expenditure – the idea that in the case of income over 700 000 S and above, it is particularly important to contribute to the consolidation of the budget. And that is one of the reasons why I say yes to this agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no such thing as the deep cuts in the right of benefits required before the elections, because our view of the social state does not correspond to leaving the weakest of this society alone if they need the aid of the Community most. And therefore there is no reduction and no deductions of existing pensions. There is no general 10 and more percent reduction in unemployment support. There is no restraint on medical visits, and there is no rehabilitation on the part of expenditure. The basis of this package of measures for fiscal consolidation is our manuscript, and that is why we will also give our support and support to this programme. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, however, it should also be pointed out that before the elections we have declared that we are confessing to save why we have said that the idea of saving has to be in the foreground of budgetary rehabilitation, but supplementary revenue will be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You know, so I hope this package, and I ask you to discuss it with us after in-depth reading. But let me also say a few words about the culture of discussion, because I have repeatedly noticed in recent days – what Dr. Haider said – that example in pure culture - that the discussions on the budget and on the budget consolidation measures are moving into lobbyism: Each of the groups in this House accepts and supports any group which is subject to this package of measures. Ladies and gentlemen! If we continue this way together – all together – then the clear result is that we have all accepted the goal that all of you accepted before the elections! - to lose sight. It is only then that it is a matter of discussing against individual measures, but it is consciously disregarding the overall reorganisation which you are supposed to be at your heart. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! What I ask for is simply a national consensus, a national consensus on the commonness of the objective of saving. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Criticize individual measures! This is not only your right, it is certainly your duty as an opposition as well. Do it! But then please be aware that we will have to ask for alternative proposals from you, how else the renovation will be carried out. Contribute to this renovation! Do not do it, then you must already be aware that what you are doing is very easily experiencing the labeling of lobbyism, and I think that is something we have not all deserved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will not be possible in the minutes available to me to go through all the measures. Let me therefore present two or three examples. It is true – and this hurts us all, which deeply hurts my group – that we introduced the second karenz holiday year a few years ago and now we have to realize that we simply cannot afford funding. We must take back at least half of that second year of leave, which we have introduced as Europe's second state, at least to women. First of all, we are doing this in an emancipatoryly positive way, in the form of an incentive for men to meet their obligations in child rearing. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not what the Federal Government and Parliament are exhausted in dealing with the women of this country. It would be most unfair if you did not see the full range of other measures. 600 million schillings for childcare facilities come from the budget alone, and that in a year when budget consolidation is announced. Because the measures are so important, the Federation does not say: This is not my concern, it is the matter of the countries and the communities!, but, quite the contrary, it gets into its pockets, and despite budget consolidation, 600 million schillings are loosened so as not to leave the women alone. In addition, 350 million shillings are from EU and social resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The one billion for childcare facilities is assured despite budget need! We create legal bases for part-time work, an important question for women. We are providing re-entry assistance for women in order to be able to move back into the working life after the retirement period. We will set up initiatives to promote women's professions, which have so far not been adopted by women, to a greater extent in order to ensure a certain degree of diversification, greater self-realization for women in the profession. We will regulate teleworking legally in order to ensure social and labour security for those working at home – and in many cases women – in many cases. We will innovate and expand the equal treatment law, and we will intensify the women's services and consultations, ladies and gentlemen. This is a package anything but a program "Women, back to the stove!". On the contrary. This is an offensive measure for women and for the sake of the women of our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The students in this country simply have to take note of the fact that we are committed to the success of the family and that we remove home-free trips in the event of similar benefits from the ÖBB, but on the other hand we are giving corresponding assistance to those who actually need this for social reasons. One thing you should not overlook – and in this regard Austria is a single case across Europe: We continue to maintain the right of free access to universities. You must see that, ladies and gentlemen. This measure – the link between family support and success – does not alter the fact that Austria is still 80 percent higher than the EU average in the future in the case of family support. We do not destroy the social state, quite the contrary, we also secure it for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no social reduction either. Work contracts are included in the social insurance obligation, in order to prevent the escape from labour law in this way. Teleworking and part-time work are being regulated in a new, more contemporary way. There is flexibility of working time, while respecting the interests of workers. The fight against abuse of illegal work can finally take place because we get decent criminal provisions and also controls. Steps will be taken towards harmonising workers' and workers' rights, and in addition – and this is most important to us Social Democrats – despite savings, jobs will be secured and new jobs created by public sector initiatives. This state, under social democratic leadership, does not withdraw from the labour market, but carries out its task of promoting economic activity to create work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You rightly call for reforms, ladies and gentlemen, reforms that will exist. There will be administrative reforms and reforms of the public service as a whole, a process concentration, so that it can no longer happen that an authority comes first to carry out a water law procedure, and three days later the next to carry out a fisheries law procedure – and in the lucky case they both come to the same conclusion. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] We will also implement the collection of a fair fee for the use of public roads, not only in order to obtain the corresponding amounts in order to close the motorway gaps, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, to establish a cost-justice between railway and road. There will be a new consultation mechanism, a new approach between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities in financial matters, which will mean that we are no longer hindering each other from saving, but, on the contrary, supporting each other. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a solid, good basis for cooperation, a cooperation which, at last, is beyond dispute, that in the case of two important obvious decisions of conscience, a free decision of this House will be possible, namely on questions of homosexuality and its criminality and the unfortunate question that has not been decided in the past, whether the promille limit can be reduced from 0.8 to 0.5 promille. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is the decision of this House in all freedom, and that is coalition-free space, but in addition, the two groups of this House will have to cooperate, and that is also good! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of neutrality, too, this working agreement ultimately bears social-democratic manuscript. We do not withdraw from an initiative, a responsible cooperation in the development of a European security system from the Ural to the Atlantic – quite the contrary! – but the Austrians have the right to know what decisions Austria is taking, and therefore a stock decision simply and simply does not come into question for us. It may be that in the future we will also have to rethink and disposition our internal security arrangements within the framework of a larger security system, but only when future development in Europe is foreseeable and recognizable. Therefore, the Neutrality Act remains in force as a international obligation in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The work agreement is a rich in ideas, a courageous, an initiative, a social and a revolutionary basis for cooperation. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to cooperate. To do this, it will require a little more than a cast of election speeches – you will find in us open and ready for dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2631	Next, Mrs. Dr. Heide Schmidt will speak. Your speaking time is not more than 40 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2674	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I listened carefully to Mr Kostelka, especially at the end. What did you talk about, Mr Kostelka? – They have spoken of "idean-rich", "mortarious", "reform-rich". – But this is really not to be taken very seriously. You can't seriously mean that yourself, that can't be true. I understand that within this coalition there is a discussion and a "criterion" about who has more of their persuasion. I also think it is remarkable that you agreed here on a 'beautiful formula', which the Federal Chancellor formulated yesterday in the Government's declaration, namely by saying: "Our country Austria has won!" - I don't think so. I believe, rather, that has won the denial of reality, the inconsistency, the inability to reform and the political inability to do so. I understand when the editor Anneliese Rohrer writes in the press that this coalition is an administrative coalition and not a design coalition. – And that’s the evil about it – it’s the same! There are not only good things to manage in Austria, but above all you are specializing in managing possessions, especially those in which one can primarily claim political influence to manage structures which not only serve to advance the individual but above all require a bureaucracy apparatus which has become unfinancing. These are especially structures that establish and promote a "full-cooked-humanity" in our population, which reduces any self-responsibilities and makes the thought of self-responsibilities appear to be a terror. It would therefore have been necessary to rethink and redesign. If we are constantly talking about how high the acceptance of this savings package would be, I believe that this is a misunderstanding. I think the acceptance of the population is simply for this rethinking. Acceptance is because something has to change, namely to the positive. And You have not used this basic attitude to finally address those reforms that are necessary and which may hurt one or the other because one has to separate one from another, but you have used them as a single one, namely, a short-term saving success – I really want to admit that to you. They have used this acceptance to impose burdens on the one hand and cuts on the other, all of which are based on the state budget's present situation without taking those measures that would save us a similar discussion for the future. That would have happened, and that would have meant political ability! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I listened carefully yesterday to the Declaration of Government and then I read it again and I have to say: For a Parliament, it is such a dense collection of beautiful words, of completely nebulous statements of intent, but then of those ways that should lead to these goals, either to read nothing or even to the contrary measures, or to know from the accompanying laws, almost an insult. Obviously, it is assumed that no one hears that anyone is thinking and that nobody is looking at it. I still consider this benevolent as "not taken seriously", but it is actually more: It is really an insult, as if one were too stupid, to understand that all that you announce to us here is not in it. They say great – this is your access; this shows the attitude behind it – as if it were now a new knowledge: The state is no longer responsible and responsible for everyone and everything. To this end, I must say: The state was never responsible and responsible for everything, only: You've always used him for that. But one thing he should be still in the future: responsible for everyone. You say that he is now no longer responsible and responsible for everything – that is one of the fundamental truths I have to admit, a line of words you have entered, into which you may have been pushed in, but which also reveals that you really do not feel responsible for all people; and so in particular the accompanying laws that we have to consult in the next few weeks. That you no longer feel responsible for everyone, we have known for some time – I will come back to it. They distinguish between those who have, so to speak, a higher market value in our society and those who have none, perhaps also between those who are your constituency clients and those who are not your constituencies. They are also talking about the start of an employment offensive and the development of the economic location in Austria. That sounds very nice, but what are you doing? . They say that one will facilitate business start-ups. They say – you have it with the wordplays – that it is really incredible when it comes so far that, if the procedure takes so long, a young businessman, for example, finally thinks about himself and buys a security instead of a workshop. That sounds nice; I think you liked it, just: This headpin for the condition description, perhaps also the applause as consent to the condition description They are not happy to make them, because it is essential what consequences you draw from it. The consequences you will suffer do not mean that there will be relief in the future. The opposite is the case! You say you would use a liberalisation of the trade order as an instrument for doing so. It seems that what you understand is already in the house. It was already the last novel under the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel anything but a reform – he still sells it as such. The present proposal is a re-adjustment of the reform that has not already taken place at the time. However, this has absolutely nothing to do with free access to trade. However, there is a request here in Parliament. So I am not talking about anything, but about very concrete templates – you can read it – in which we assume that in the future a certificate of competence should only be necessary where it is about the danger to people's lives or health. There it certainly makes sense to have a proper control device. In all other cases, we want to leave it to the quality, market and capacity of the citizens and thus also to make it easier for the individual to make himself independent. A person who is terminated by his company and who then – unfortunately God – goes to puss, could instead, if he had not been prevented by formal conditions, make himself independent. The whole thing would no longer be in the grey field of black work and would also give a different sense of self-esteem and thus a different overall mentality in this country. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Nothing of it can be seen in your papers! So don't tell us something if what you put in the house proves the opposite – the other templates aren't even here. You say you want to support young entrepreneurs and thus facilitate business start-ups. Apart from the rules of commerce, you will introduce a minimum corporation tax of 50 000 S per year. This 50 000 s must be paid by everyone, regardless of whether he makes a profit or writes losses. This is why you choose a GesmbH because you want to eliminate the unlimited liability, because this is a start-up aid, in order to be able to establish yourself very slowly to a successful company. What you're doing now has been called "property destruction" in a newspaper article – it's a plassive expression, but it's going in the right direction. In this way, do you want to facilitate business start-ups? – You do exactly the opposite of what you announce before. They want to facilitate flexibility, strengthen personal responsibility – write it; You say "inventive" – do you know how your ideas look in this respect? – They take control of the work contract instrument in the truest sense of the word "in control". I know that it is true that work contracts are increasingly being misused as circumvention contracts – that is not what anyone wants. I also know that people don't report and then don't take their taxes off – that's not what anyone wants. But the instrument you're trying to change is not the right one. What you call a development is tax evasions, which are criminal in any case. We had a committee meeting, which is a reference to the double ground with which you are working, the Committee on Culture, and wanted to deal with the work contracts on that day, especially in this committee, because cultural policy depends very much on the possibility of working contracts. On that day, it was possible to read about the APA that the following solution is planned: not to include all contracts of work in social security, but only the so-called non-real. This means that a problem that has always been present has been articulated if you want to, an own type of contract sui generis has now been underlined again. This incorrect contract of work is to be included in social security. We can talk about what this will entail, about Judicature, about sniffery, about contention – which is a matter for itself – but you have said about the APA: Not all works contracts will be included in social security. What does the Government Declaration say? – Of course they are all! In the draft which you sent out at the same time, with a minimum assessment period, this is also a subject on which I will come to speak; the short term; so that one may not be able to look so closely – it says that there is a It is simply assumed that a servicer-like person is meant to be a low-speed person. This means: not recognised as a contract of work, therefore subject to social security. I think that's a double floor. It's unfair how you dealt with these things. Above all, this regulation is precisely the opposite of what you want, namely to promote the individual's own responsibility and flexibility. Just the opposite you do! They give up any nice targets, but then do something quite different and therefore reach a different goal. That's why what you're doing here is a "Hinters Light Guide". Another thing: Faith Do you really think it would be beneficial if the losses were no longer possible in 1996/97? If you - I think this is particularly scandalous - say that these losses, with which we have been able to expect them up to now, can no longer be claimed for the years 1989 and 1990? – This is a violation of trust and faith, an essential rule of law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ederer.]] A violation that you want to secure with your two-thirds majority – with the two-thirds majority, which allows you to decide on a Constitutional Act in order to withdraw the regulation of the review by the Constitutional Court, and to show what you continue to understand for the future by means of "political culture". – I think that what you're presenting to us here is scandalous. [[Acclaim at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] But I don't wonder. Perhaps one Sunday or another saw the television discussion on the show "To the cause" in which the subject of the Constitutional Laws was cut down at the last minute – I think you should see everything under the term "political culture", because political culture is more than one thing, that is a really too low latte that we lay there. I already admit: Given a certain articulation, you're already happy if that doesn't happen. But it's not enough for us anyway. Political culture also includes what instruments are used for. Finally, Mr Khol, when the camera was still there, said: But we have a two-thirds majority, and we will also use them! – Of course you can do this, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you! Thank you for the generosity!]] But you will have to make it happen that the scale of political resistance and political proficiency will be established. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How many Members do you have?]] Mr Khol! The appropriateness shall not be measured in figures. They seem to orient your scale according to how many people demonstrate against something, how many people may be decent, how many are fighting for or against something. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How much have you lost?]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But you are also using your Members!]] That is why your question in relation to the political state of affairs, as many Members of this House have, is already being exposed on their own. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A great sense of democracy! Who should decide if not the majority?]] The appropriateness is not a question of the majority, Mr Deputies, but you live on a different scale. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] You demonstrated this to us on another occasion. But now you have to know what you're doing with it. After all, they simply said that – even in that television show, when demonstrations were mentioned –: How many people have they been? The few hundred? What the hell is that? – With this, you have provoked that now other calls make and say: Guys! Go on the road, for you will be counted! - We heard that from this speaker's desk. Mr Khol! You have to think about what you say before, so that you do not provoke such a thing. Or do you want that? - Obviously it is. Because if you organize a demonstration, for example, a farmer's demonstration, then it is apparently a legitimate means, then it is a means of enforcement, but at the others you say: [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Demonstration is always legitimate!]] The few hundred?- Oh, my God! – You seem to be really just about the question: Can the lobbyists organize or not? – I am not surprised by your party, which is organized in the same way that it has in your structures, Mr Höchtl. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We have never spoken against demonstrations! – You can’t make demonstrations because you don’t have people!]] It is not measured, it is weighted – you may not understand that, but it has a very essential content! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Your concept of democracy is adventurous!]] I recall the last debate following the meeting of the Committee on Justice, which took place here, and that all of us in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, in connection with copyright, were concerned with the introduction of a so-called reprocopying levy, which means taking part in their works for cultural workers; something which had been necessary for a long time, which was overdue, where we were lagging behind. Finally, we decided. And at one time there was a lobby of the copyers who, with ads – I don't know how much they cost – turned on all the newspapers, how immense it was that they as copyers would now be disadvantaged. And what did your Member, Mr Fekter, your President-in-Office of the Justice Committee, do? She went home to all the other political groups and asked: Don't we want to change that again? As they have now organized, do we not want to postpone the date of entry into force? See, that's your scale: If you are properly organized, then you are ready to speak, otherwise you do not count on the principle, does not count the morale for you. It's just about how you can sell something! That's why I'm saying: It's a bad government statement, because it also bears your handwriting! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You have been better before, especially more honest!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You've been more honest before, I said!]] I don't know if you can judge that at all. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I agree with that as well as with you!]] In all these respects, it is about the safety of the Austrian site, including the economic location Austria, because Austria is part of this economic location, not only of the fact that there are certain framework conditions of material nature, but above all that one can rely on something. We must be able to rely on the rules which are now being taken into account, which are the basis for a particular behaviour, especially for a particular economic behaviour, that these rules are only changed in a planned way. This means that they will be changed at a time when I can include the changes in my considerations. You're doing the exact opposite! And this opposite is the benchmark for your credibility! Cut with respect to credibility But they do more than bad in other things. – What did you say to the women, Mr Kostelka? I didn't write it down and I didn't notice it either because it was really bar of any reality. It's been about something "promoting", "prosperity" or anything else. In the Government Declaration, the Federal Chancellor read it to us yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Reading!]] I would like to read it, but would like to have your words on it, but have forgotten it. Strengthening the promotion of women – what to do You really? – Now I know it again: In connection with kindergartens, they spoke about the discharge of women! Can you finally understand that care for children comes to the parents and it is a question of the parents as they divide it? You must resolve to continue to instrumentalise women for certain tasks by constantly giving them the following: That's something for you, dear woman I do when I provide kindergartens for your kids. – I think this is a horrific thing! They give something for the children; but not even that you do, because you cut the kindergarten billions and take them – not the women! – a little away from the children! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I also have to say a word on the reduction in the time of the leave - I suppose my colleague Schaffenrath will go even closer to it. They're all still talking about "carence vacation." This is your attitude: This is a holiday the woman takes, because she may be at home, may play with the children, may go with them to the kindergarten, to the swimming pool or elsewhere. It is therefore holiday time. Perhaps you remember that in this House we wanted to see the term "carence leave" transformed by a clear majority – the two government groups were at least there. We have decided with your votes, as you are sitting here, that it will have to be called "carence time" in future and no longer "carence leave", therefore also "carence allowance" and not "carence leave allowance". – I am not at all surprised at the fact that this is not yet in your minds, but at least the motions for resolutions of this House have to be kept. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] And that's why – the Minister is not here, of course! – the invitation to the Minister to stick to it and to draw the corresponding consequences. Apart from taking something away from the children here, both when it comes to the kindergarten billions and the karenz age – even more so to those children who have only one parent; it is mostly the woman, she takes over the extraordinary liability, which she is used to; but you take it away to the children and make the lot of the woman even more difficult, that is right – you meet the women even more by introducing study fees via the back door even if you were not economical with the changes in the students. They always say that there is no such thing, but there is it indirectly through the buy-in times. It is always true that in unpopular things you simply invent a beautiful word for it and believe that you can lead everyone behind the light in this way. This language instrument usually works, but such debates are there to reveal it. This post-graduate purchase is of course also a kind of study fee, which is thus introduced by the back door. And in this context, women are even more disadvantaged, because everyone has to pay the same contribution for the time they have studied, although everyone knows that women – that is proven! – earn less and can therefore less for their pension; but they can pay just as much! That's the woman's disadvantage! To the bonus malus system: Mr Haselsteiner made it clear yesterday in an insurmountable way – as an entrepreneur who knows what it is all about – to which The effects of this system will result in you not protecting the 50-year-olds, but will be directed against the 49-year-olds. That's exactly the effect. In addition to that, you have created a female-anti-feminine instrument. In fact, they have formulated the framework conditions as follows: It is cheaper to cancel a woman over 50 years of age than a man over 50, and to hire a woman over 50 saves the entrepreneur less than a man over 50. If you're talking about having a steering effect, I have to say: This, of course, has a relevant effect, namely that women remain on the road! On the other hand, on the other hand, don't talk about the fact that you want to promote women more strongly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I don't understand at all what kind of self-evidentness You say here that you are supposed to introduce a right to part-time work. If so – wonderful! Only: If you have agreed, why is it not in the Coalition Convention? Then why is it not in the government statement? In other words: This is just as a saying as all the other sayings, just so you say something positive here, because the movie camera runs along and because some might believe it. Then I must say to those who have heard this: None of these are contained in the Coalition Convention and not in the Government Declaration. That's what you're talking about, you want to make something stronger. Legal claim? – No word of it in the Declaration of Government! Part-time employment? – It is also necessary to create tax incentives that one should, of course, take measures to enable an entrepreneur to create part-time jobs. You would now have had the opportunity – if this is really your consistent will – to incorporate exactly that into your accompanying laws. - Zero! No word of that is included, so don't tell us here in beautiful sayings what you will do if you obviously don't agree on this target at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The flexibility of working time is as if you were already a bit further than where we have been standing for years – we already know it all. I believe that we can take the debate last year at the same time, and let the tapes run out, and we can even take debates over the past few years. Where did we get only one millimeter? You are now saying the same thing you have been saying to us for years: that we are going to have to sit down – the beautiful word "dialogue" has flown in, I am glad because it is a key word for us – that we are now going to enter into a dialogue with the social partners. Mr Haider said that you would even say that the social partners will determine the opening times. Not even so far as you are! The terms " load opening times" or " load closing times", as you understand them, do not even occur! They do not appear in the Declaration of Government, nor do they appear in the Coalition Convention! And it is so significant that Mr Ditz before the summer – obviously knowing that we are facing an election campaign; the ÖVP already knew at the time that it was necessary to recall only the statements that had already been precisely timed – spoke great of the fact that something will now be initiated as regards the opening times. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! Can I read to you that this is very well in here?]] I am convinced that you will be able to talk about it later on in your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't read it!]] Mr Khol! Maybe watch. I would like to ask you once more for the statement of government that was read yesterday. I am very curious about what Mr Schüssel will tell me in this connection, because I have read it, and the opening or closing times are not in the government statement. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I even quoted that, Mrs. Colleague!]] I'd be very glad if it were inside. [[Abg. Dr. Khol goes to the government bank and shows the speaker the government's work agreement, which Mr. Vice-Canceller Dr. Schüssel holds in his hands.]] You can now play as you want; You don't think I have my short speaking time with anything... [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel: You said it wasn't inside!]] If you tell me the page, it's much better for me. Is that the government's work agreement? Is that the government statement? Is that it? On page 11, it says, please, not. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Do you have your own version, Mrs. Colleague?]] On page 11, and it's page 11, you gave me, it's not. You don't think I'm starting to browse. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Not only I, but also all my employees have read the government statement very carefully. Above all, I listened very closely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic yesterday: Loading opening times, loading closing times are not a concern. In general, he speaks of working hours. That's how it's supposed to be! That's exactly what we've heard for years and days, nothing else is meant here. This shows the credibility or the disbelief of politicians who, of course, let some balloon rise in front of an election campaign, because one knows that this is a certain clientele, but when it comes to confessing color, nothing remains of it. This is the credibility that you prove in other areas as well. There, where I have spoken about the stronger promotion of women, you are talking about improved foreign language education in a breath, because you are taking it to the educational chapter. What to do You really? What is the effect of your actions? – The effect is that you shorten school hours in connection with foreign language teaching. And why are you doing that? – Because They also do not change the structure of teachers there, but on the back of the children, in so far as they have fewer hours of schooling. This is worth it to you, because it is much easier because the children do not have a union, and that is why it is much easier to enforce than to deal with the union of teachers. If you continue to talk about you wanting to advance the greening of the tax system, I think this is a blow to the face of the truth at all. If you want to make some progress, it must already be there – I would at least interpret it. There is no ecologisation of the tax system, but energy taxes, and that is quite different. By this one sees that one can really create confusion with different terms for which one uses the same words. Ecologisation of the tax system means creating a steering effect on environmental action, so that economic action becomes at the same time ecological action and ecological action is economic. This is an ecologicalisation of the tax system. There is no single measure in this respect. What you do is: Once again they introduce taxes or increase others. In other words, you have discovered a money acquisition measure here, but that has nothing to do with ecologisation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Only because energy is used with this tax to talk about ecologizing is really a word play that is unreasonable. That is why such words simply go empty. But you say something. In the context of EU policy, for example, you are talking about positioning. Who's positioning himself? If one reads against the Coalition Agreement – particularly curious to experience in the so-called "To Matter" mission – one can see that, in terms of individual formulations, the coalition partners do not even agree on what content to base on them. One sees neutrality in international obligations, the other strongly demonstrates it: What's that supposed to have to do with it? – Now is not the time for us to discuss at a different time whether this is to be understood as a retention of neutrality or not. The fact is that you use words, I almost want to say word caves in which everyone can secret and interpret what he likes. This was the only way to get a common denominator. Only: In terms of content, this does not bring us one step further. In addition: If you are talking about the enlargement of the East – and this hurts me because I have hoped that this will really become an honest concern of Austrian EU policy – then this is a lip commitment. Because if you don't say anything about a schedule, if you just say you're going to be committed to it, you're gonna say the same thing that everyone's been saying for years. The honest commitment and the real setting of priorities would be to make concrete proposals – whether it be concrete proposals for an opt-in or an opt-out – whether it be concrete proposals for an opt-out or for an opt-out; all these things, which must then be the basis when we come to such an Easter expansion, because otherwise, they are beautiful sayings and not anymore. But you always have these beautiful sayings on your lips, especially when it comes to fundamental rights or human rights. The reality, however, looks different. They are saying that, unfortunately, Austria should remain the country of asylum for the people as it has been. They are talking about the elimination of unnecessary hardness in asylum law. I wonder, What is a necessary hardness? They are talking about the need to regulate and implement the revelry more decently. - Zero. None of that happened. That's what we've been talking about for years. We also know these lip confessions from all kinds of Members from this pult. If, after this long discussion, you have no more come to mind than to repeat these sayings again and not to mention any measure that should actually eliminate this inhumane state, then I cannot go with optimism, even with the spark of joy to these years, of which I have thought: Finally, it is time for us to have a government again, whether I like it or not, but it will go a little further!, but I have the feeling that we will stay in this old water, and this old water has unfortunately led us to a swamp in many areas of God. But if you become concrete, then it's also defying. Increte It is not in the years of discussion about a decent asylum right, a decent foreign right, but it will be a concrete one when it comes to the attack on noise and the search for grids. There's even a draft, and everything's already been formulated. There is in the Government Declaration – as if that were really the measure of fundamental rights protection! –: We have even provided for judicial approval. Well, then, with judicial approval, we will listen to all people, whether innocent or guilty, whether at all, or not – exactly that is what is made possible – then we will be involved in a grid investigation in the broadest sense potentially affected, but we will always act with a judicial approval, and thus fundamental rights protection is respected. If this is your slat, I must say that you have made it very easy. For Liberals, that will not be enough! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is your declaration of government to a large extent simple and simply borne by a wishful mind. They set quite positive goals, such as – because that would have been the next point – in art. What do you say? You're about art? – That sounds so nice too: We will make it clear for all futures that art can take place in Austria without hindrance. – What does that mean, please? What does that really mean? Make sure that it can take place at all! It is not only necessary to work for the freedom of art – this is also important in the present situation, especially after the last challenges – but it is above all necessary to create the structures that art can create at all. At another place is in To read your Coalition Convention of the Exploratory Rate that, if they do not have an economic or labour policy effect, promotions will be reduced in the future. That is, if they have a cultural policy effect, you don't care. Unless it is to be measured by market value, then it was the case; but culture should be an independent concern of a state, I completely miss it in your documents. But you write a great deal of that you will remember when the freedom of art is attacked. Create They are the structures that can develop an art scene at all, that a free scene, an alternative scene and a future-oriented art can develop! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But it is not much different for the media, because they are also part of the culture, of the political culture. What do you say? – With the print media, we want to obtain the widest possible variety of newspapers, magazines and magazines, you say. First: What do you mean, "retain"? Is that what you're serious about? Is that your "as much diversity as possible"? At the concentrations we have? – If you want to receive this, your sentence is okay. Then we know at least what we are about. You also showed this when we last talked about antitrust law. But if you really think that we need a variety, I wonder why there is no reference at all to a change in the press promotion law. Why is there no reference to a antitrust law? Why are there not these clues that are necessary to actually produce a variety of print media? Everything else is saying and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That is why I am going to tell you – I will stop right away, I assume that my colleagues will contribute a lot more –: This declaration of government is indeed a single disappointment. You don't have to quote all the journalists who wrote this in the newspapers, whether the "The Press", the "Salzburger Nachrichten", or whether it is the "standard". Barazone did not write until the weekend: "The spirit drive continues" because it really goes into the fog. It is a disappointment that the voters you admittedly equipped with a two-thirds majority have not deserved. If I hear that Mr Kostelka is proclaiming a great deal of what we all know anyway that the Social Democrats have received an incredible advance of confidence in the last elections, then everyone will complain. Do you know what that is? – This is self-congratulation. Such a thing is then self-congratulation if you don't make any of it. I say that you have not done what your voters, to whom you owe this proposal of confidence, deserve, from this proposal of confidence, which is really more respectable. Furthermore, I believe that this declaration of government is pro-prising, structurally conservative, youthful and economic.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3074	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party want to contribute fully to the new programme of the Federal Government, together with a renewed partnership with the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Ironic Bravorufe at the Liberal Forum]] We will thus change our social network in order to secure it. We will therefore redesign Austria's economic location in order to secure as much work as possible. And we will ensure that Austria's future is sustainable at the threshold of the third millennium. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Government is therefore a future government, because the design of a good future is all our common task. We will present the 1996 budget to you these days, and we will present the 1997 budget to you in these days. We will also provide you with a financial programme that will be submitted to the next millennium; at the same time, you will be given accompanying laws which will specify all these measures in detail, so that everyone will know how they are. We have been negotiating for two months, and now a major work is being completed. We from the People's Party will do everything we can to ensure that this is implemented quickly in the new partnership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are not disturbed by this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] If just now the great "teacher of liberalism" – under quotation marks – has not left a good hair on this government agreement and on our work, I am comforted, because I hold to better liberals, for example to the "Frankfurter Allgemeine", Mrs. Schmidt. This is the large liberal sheet of world format, you have to read it. There's inside: "As rarely before, government can be felt by the will to seal reform; it is recorded and documented in an agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP. Austria thus proves itself to be an exemplary country," writes the "Frankfurter Allgemeine", "where it succeeded without social confusion to meet the stability requirements". [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: That's great!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a more important comment to me than comments from an opposition that has no alternative to make. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: When? 1990?]] Mr Barmüller! The "Frankfurter Allgemeine" has written this today in its editorial, and this is a sheet of world call that is read. Ladies and gentlemen! I just bluffed back. In October 1995, there was no agreement on the budget, there was no agreement on the extent to which savings and the extent to which new taxes should solve our financial problems. There were no precise figures as to how high the need for renovation is: Does it amount to 30 billion schilling or 50 billion schilling? [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Why not? What kind of government was that?]] In view of the information situation at that time, we did not know how high the deficit would be in 1997, and the Ministry of Finance was talking about additional savings of 25 billion schilling. We had no fixed figures, there was no agreement, and that is why we voted. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Oh, that's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, the cash register has been made, and we know what financing and rehabilitation needs we need. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Really? Great!]] In the meantime, we know what the measures we need cost and what they bring, and now we have also started permanent structural savings, and we also ensure – and this is important – that additional wage costs are not increased so that the economy can continue to secure employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have presented a balanced package in an honest policy. There is no change in the wage and income tax rate, there is no stronger taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary, there is no supplement to income tax in the form of the Solidar levy. We have promised this before the election of our voters, we can hold it, and that is why we are taking part in this government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many citizens still wonder: Wouldn't this victory of reason have gone without choice? Did we really have to choose in December? Was it really necessary to ask the sovereign of this country, the people, the Austrians and the Austrians, how can we decide now? I'm telling you, no. It would not have been possible, because if only one third of those measures which the Social Democrats have now proposed and are responsible for, on that night from 11 to 12 would have been possible. It would have been on the table October, then we shouldn't have chosen. Only the election has done this, and I thank the Austrians for the confidence they have expressed in our policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Sovereign made it possible. And if some of them look in doubt, I would like to quote the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" of today, which writes: "In retrospect, it is now apparent that the choice was necessary. The ÖVP, which broke it from the fence and whose leadership had hoped for a different result, may have been in favour of providing the necessary movement. This is not very little in a country in love with the past, which can look back on a thousand years of documented existence." – That is said here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now ask our club secretary to make this opposition editorial available so that I do not have to quote it any more. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We also read the "Frankfurter Allgemeine"!]] Then you didn't understand it, ladies and gentlemen, if you read it anyway. One or the other will ask himself: Why, then, does the People's Party continue this great coalition? Why? This is the decision of voters. We have to note that both government parties have become stronger, in votes and in mandates – and that all opposition parties have lost, in votes and in mandates. I believe that this vote of voters should be taken into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We won votes!]] We are also convinced that a truly viable package of futures, which will shape into the next millennium and bring about a new recovery for our economy, can only be borne by a broad consensus, and that it will only work if the social partners – a achievement of our real constitution – go along and carry it along. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the third reason why we are going back to this new government partnership, into this great coalition, must have become clear to you all if you heard yesterday the Government Declaration of our Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Scheibner: A lot of things have become clear to us!]] – If much has become clear to you, Mr Scheibner, then you will share my analysis. The five objectives announced yesterday by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany are exactly the same as those set by Wolfgang Schüssel in his letter that we started the negotiations for this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor yesterday referred to the employment and economic location of Austria as the first goal. It was also said by the People's Party in its letter from Goldegg of 10. January. The Federal Chancellor yesterday called the reform and consolidation of the state budget a goal. In his letter to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Wolfgang Schüssel did so. Janen explained. The Federal Chancellor yesterday mentioned the European policy initiative as the aim of this government. It was the goal of the letter of Wolfgang Schüssel. January, with which we started the negotiations. This is the case with European security, and so is the reform basket. Ladies and gentlemen! The third and decisive reason why we carry this renewal partnership with full heart is that it bears the manuscript of our party, the manuscript of our election advertising and the manuscript of our principles. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the first time, we have also been able to stress the role of Parliament's upgrading. We have created a coalition-free space, a graduated coalition-free space. That is why, in fact, since the existence of the great coalitions – since 1959 – has been achieved. A gap has opened, and this Parliament is invited to take advantage of this initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The coalition-free broom chamber!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are not just presenting a government agreement, two budgets and a comprehensive law on monitoring, but we are very concrete in formulating all these objectives. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where is the coalition-free room?]] We want a consolidated government budget, not just the federal government, but for the first time in a government agreement a general government consolidation policy is established. We shape the federal budgets, we take account of the budgets of the countries and the municipalities, and we make 66 billion shilling savings and 33 billion schilling new revenue to ensure a new upturn, to ensure full employment in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Again, we acknowledge the need for a new partnership between the local authorities, a new partnership on the reform of the state, where, if we can afford to do so, and if we reach agreement on the finances, better legal protection is achieved through the establishment of administrative courts at country level, closer to the citizen, a task reform, a financial federalism. The latter means that the Federal Government recognises that no new burden on other local authorities will be decided without talking about it before, without pre-estimating the cost of the follow-up, without pre-clearing: Who is the cost? Can we afford this? Do we have the financial cover for that? Does that fit into our state finances? This is very, very important because it creates trust between the federal government, countries and communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Underestimation They do not all ask for the symbolic act that our Federal Government has become smaller by four members. I already know that it is impossible to reorganise state finances, but the citizens demand that the modesty that we have as the maximum of these budget laws is also placed on the Federal Government and on ourselves. This is a sign that we have understood the citizen. In this legislative period, we will also make a reference reform, an income pyramid for all political and state-owned relations. Therefore, good people will earn decently, but there will be no unemployed income, no designs that the public does not understand and does not approve. Ladies and gentlemen! We will realize a slim state and make our state fit. 11 000 posts will be saved, will not be re-occupied. We will have excellent officials for our administration without jeopardising the professional officials to whom we expressly intend to shape our state in such a way that we can afford to have excellent officials for our administration. I would like to express my wish here at the public trade union. Service to ensure that, in a high sense of responsibility, saving and patriotism have won. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke about a new government partnership, a new partnership between the local authorities. This new partnership also includes the recognition that there is already a renewed social partnership, which has proved to be incredibly successful at this stage, not only in distributing those who deserved it, but also in doing what it would not be possible for the social partners to do, in other words to save justice, to take part in carrying the burden. Social partnership has proved itself to be an excellent pillar of our political system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also very proud - once again I would like to say - that we have implemented the reforms in time in this country, so that we do not have to intervene deeply in the social system, as in Sweden; that, as in Italy, we do not have to simply abolish entire categories of social benefits, but we have reformed in good time, and we have succeeded; without social unrest, such as in France or Italy, and without all the catastrophic accompanying phenomena, by which Sweden, when it had to take the necessary reform steps, has been slumped. As far as Europe is concerned, we have also made necessary decisions. In the area of security policy, we are determined that the common system of peace will be formed as an initiative and dynamic from the very beginning. We will therefore be fully involved in the Intergovernmental Conference, which will begin in Turin in a few days when it comes to creating a European peace order. In the spirit of solidarity, we will help to make our citizens feel more secure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we have reached a consensus that what comes out at this Intergovernmental Conference on the European Peace Order will also be taken over in full and that at this point we will also check which instruments we are serving. We are going to lose more and more by means of a constitutional law in addition to neutrality, which is losing in actuality and in power of design, because it was an instrument of the cold war, as a new instrument of European solidarity. Today we have the Western European Union, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Partnership for Peace, where we participate everywhere in peacekeeping and peacekeeping. This is a good Austrian tradition. We will strengthen these peace efforts because we Austrians are interested in peace around our country and the protection of human rights in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In European policy, we have confirmed the clear distribution of competence of our federal constitution and of our Federal Ministerial Law. Our system of government provides that European policy functions lie with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, that Europe's policies are, of course, also the Federal Chancellor, but that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the European Union represents us at the general Council of the European Union and thus also plays the natural role of the Minister of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, Europe's policy is comprehensive. There is almost no specialist minister who does not have to participate in Councils of the European Union. The decisions taken there will be coordinated at the level of the Federal Government in the future. That's chief business. The Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor in the Federal Government will take together the important decisions concerning the European Union. Two State Secretarys will prepare these decisions, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the whole relationship with the European Union, the Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office on national preparation. This is a clear rule. [[Demonstrative applause and reputation of the Abg. May. Ederer: That's probably logical.]] I'm glad she likes you, Mrs. Ederer! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also ensures political initiative and coordination. I'll come to the end. All of this, which we propose here, is a major objective: In a new partnership, we want to make Austria fit for a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3421	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3448	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very good that you will also show before the television spectators live how you keep your style and tone in dealing with the opposition, that immediately before a word is said, there will be misconceptions, and that even in the division that came out of the bank series here before – "fissiles", "mysies", – words will be chosen, of which I believe they are infringinging the dignity of this house. You, who always conjure up a correct style of opposition, show how you call into the forest, and you wonder when it sounds accordingly back. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the debates of the previous speakers from the government groups, there was a great deal of talk about the future tasks, about the great objectives that Austria, which Europe stands for, is talking about. The representatives of the government parties believe that this coalition agreement, with this declaration of government, will meet these objectives. If you look at surveys of what is important to the population, especially the young people in Austria, then the same priority series will always come: It is this environmental protection – environmental protection understood as a modern economic principle – that is the question of the abolition of old dependencies, the question of emancipation of groups in the population who are oppressed today, which are not equal. Thirdly, it is the question of what kind of youth in Austria is, what are the opportunities for education in this country, what is the future of young people, and fourthly, what is the question of security: How safe is Austria, how secure does the population feel? I believe that the answers you gave in the context of the Coalition Convention and the Government Declaration are not appropriate to solve the important problems of this country and to address the concerns of the people. They have already begun this legislative period in a way that is not forward-looking, which has nothing new in itself, but so far reminds us of practices that we know sufficiently. They have continued in the so-called reduction of the government, which is actually only at the level of the ministerial posts, the State Secretary's posts and was not associated with a real structural adjustment, ancient rituals – I would like to say almost. There were no factual arguments, which should be brought together here. For example, we could have talked about division of competence, about the too few competences of the environment, which should urgently receive energy competence, since we should have talked about health and social matters, about the question of education policy and the possible integration of competences. No, no, no, What did you do? – You have put together traffic and science! What this has to do with each other I cannot see, except perhaps that now, apparently, efforts are being made to go over it through science and research in Austria – in the truest sense of the word. They have combined family and environment; These areas of competence, which you have recently separated, have been separated with good reason. The author and journalist Elfriede Hammerl gave it to the women's demonstration on 8 October. It was put to the fore on 1 March: We must be glad to see that, as women in Austria, you have not attached the family competences to the waste disposal. Ladies and gentlemen! But let me come to these four areas of problem which I have raised in the first place and to which the Austrian people are asking for answers. The most important area on which my colleague Monika Langthaler will comment in detail is environmental protection: How will the survival of future generations in this country and worldwide be possible? This question is truly addressed in a stepmotherly manner in the Coalition Agreement. Above all, it is interesting what is not in the Coalition Convention, but what was still in the previous Coalition Convention. It is no longer a word that you are pursuing the Toronto objective of reducing greenhouse gases that endanger the atmosphere at all. Apparently you have written down and abandoned this target for a long time. You can't do it anymore, you don't want it anymore. You have simply removed this aspect of the future from your agreement. It is no longer a word of environmental liability, it is no longer a word about this market economy instrument for the reward of environmentally conscious undertakings. That's not there anymore. This was still included in the last agreements. They seem to have written it down, abandoned it. Although the word "procedural concentration" is very likely, yesterday's statements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany no longer mention citizens' rights. This means: rapid, rapid procedures – apparently at the expense of the participation of the population. Mr Bundeskanzler, this will not happen, it will once again trigger protests, and the Greens are certainly on the side of the citizens' initiatives that represent the just concerns of environmental protection in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another instrument is the energy tax that you have repeatedly conjured before the election. What you are planning now is not an energy tax reform as we wanted it to be, it is a purely scrapping of the Austrian population and, in part, of the farms. A real energy tax is a system change. It was said that, with labour-related taxes, it was down with the additional labour costs and instead of its energy taxes. What you're doing here is an additional burden that we need to reject in this form, because you're destroying the acceptance of any eco-tax in the population. There is also no word for a renegotiation of the transit agreement. They have brought Austria to the EU, they have striven – or at least claimed to strive – to transform Europe ecologically. Now we're experiencing a transitlawine like that. The eighties were marked by an increase in transit traffic through Austria by 80 percent, and you have come up with an inappropriate instrument, but now there is no longer any word that you want to change something here. Finally, an area that is very important to me personally, a very environmentally relevant area, namely the area of animal welfare or a small-scale, animal-friendly, land-based agriculture. This can no longer be found in the Coalition Convention. Next week, there will be a large popular desire in Austria for a uniform animal welfare law, and there have been more and more votes – including from the government parties – that you are supposed to want it. Now, of this federal animal welfare law and of the objectives of the abolition of mass animal husbandry, there is nothing left to the coalition agreement from the transition to a truly animal-friendly production in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The environment, the future, creates jobs. You have now correctly recognized this, but there are so many aspects missing, everything I have shown is missing, so that it seems to me that it is a nebulous lip confession when you write in the Coalition Convention: "Environmental protection creates jobs" and that there is a real lack of and lack of implementation in all respects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second big goal and concern: emancipation. Especially in Austria, we have often determined how much the patriarchal structures are still anchored, how much is still being tried to keep women, young people in education, but also people who simply do not have the same opportunities – such as the disabled – dependent. There have been approaches in recent years to combat these dependencies. Women have laboriously reached a compromise in the form of the equal treatment package. It's a minimal compromise in my eyes, but still a compromise. The disabled have succeeded in achieving at least once a care provision in Austria. This too is a compromise. By far not enough to achieve real independence, but at least a first step towards the release of dependencies. What happens now, this wheel of history turns back one piece, it returns to the direction of enhanced dependencies. Especially in the area of women's savings, in the area of family support, in the field of pension funds, in the area of women's pensions, it is not so much a question of implementing savings measures – it is relatively little financially; it is, above all, enormously more bureaucracy, especially in the management of the pension fund – but the real goal it is to achieve is an objective as it has long been pursuing ultra-conservatives, namely to bring women and young people back into more dependence, on men's dependence, on so-called family owners. This is the aim, and social democracy must be blamed for having carried out these ultra-conservative objectives, and the Minister for Women's Affairs, in the context of the discussions on this package of savings, has not tried to oppose the fact that a one-sided package of taxes on women is actually being implemented here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Significantly general is also the climate and sound that prevails on these issues – also in dealing with the media and with the public. Since precisely these days a great excitement has prevailed around the cover of the news magazine "profile" of this week, one can actually ask whether this illustration of Mr. Federal Chancellor has gone to the border of good taste. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: No, that's clear!]] This question can already be asked, but much more important is how it has been responded to. This enormous vulnerability, which obviously leads to one in its vanity or I do not know what hurt absolute rulers are going through to the hardest instruments of law enforcement, to have a news magazine collected – not yet very meaningfully in the middle of the week – that reminds us of times of the first march in Austria, and I think that has once again made us an international mockery. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You lose the measure!]] [[Congratulations and lively calls to the greens.]] We must also consider this – ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, I remember They are concerned about how this chancellor has dealt with issues of good taste in other areas than the question of women's rights in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Posch: I want to see how you react when you do this to you!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] There were more than pictorial representations – even if you are still so excited, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats – because there were indeed attacks against women's rights, including in this House! [[Abg. Koppler: You are a typical millionaire daughter!]] I would remind you of how women in this House were insulted, ridiculed and ridiculed as part of the so-called microphone-slip affair, within the framework of the Decolleté-Grapsch affair, and I would remind you of how this Federal Chancellor behaved at the time. He is not on the side of the offended, the afflicted, and the injured, but he said: Just no waves! We'll calm that down again! [[Abg. Koppler: Typical millionaire daughter!]] And what happened? – Mrs Schütz, who has all this happened, a Social Democratic Member, who ultimately had to go, while those who have injured those who have offended those who have been hurt, nothing has happened. In this truly antifeminist climate, it is not surprising if such women's load packages are so easily chained and if you think you can push them through so easily. Ladies and gentlemen! The third point, the third major aspect of the future, which has gone through all the speeches and which is very much at the heart of the Austrian population, especially the young people, is the question of investment in the future, is the question of investment in the future: Education policy. The statements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany were also vague. Although it is about international recognition of diplomas, bills, but the question of how universities, how schools, how students, how academic middle-schooling in Austria is concerned, is not addressed by the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Edler: The workers are also interested in the businesses!]] That's what the workers are interested in. Of course! But what you're doing here – even now with your calls – that's something you always blame the liberal. You polarize, you try to play the working class in Austria against the students, and I reject that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Edler: You called for a revolt yesterday!]] Too little has been done for the workers in Austria. Too little has happened, and above all, as the strongest political group in this House with a 10 percentage point advantage over the next strongest party, you have all the time failed to create a uniform labour and social law for workers, employees and officials. So we would be this constant hack, who has more privileges and who has less, finally get rid of it. Striving You must finally do this instead of playing out the sections of the population against each other! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one thing, above all: All those who work in this country also need corresponding young people, they need young people. And because the economy does not stop because the skills requirements are getting higher, these young people need higher and better qualifications. Austria unfortunately has a very, very low share of academics in international comparison, a little over 7 percent; in neighbouring countries it is the double. In this respect, we need a great deal of follow-up. What are you doing? – You have also strapped a load package at the expense of the universities, which is really looking for the same. You have introduced salary losses of up to 30 and 40 percent in an attack-like campaign with a few days of assessment period for the academic middle construction, you have actually kicked people with feet whose load has constantly increased in recent years. [[Abg. Sweamlein: You must first have high salaries!]] In fact, we should have talked about structural reforms. And what are you doing? – They simply brutally cut down the entire area and introduce new hierarchies at the same time. In the future, the income will depend on whether a magistrate or a doctor is, even if he does the same. [[Abg. Swimmling: Do you think the assistants are 50 000 s?]] These are new hierarchies, of which I had hoped that the Social Democrats in particular would not be in favour of such unbelievable criteria and such inaccurate separations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, with students, you have considerably weakened and reduced equal opportunities especially for young people who do not live at the place of study who arrive, for example, from the federal states, because you delete the travel allowances, because, by the way, you, in a way that is simple and simply unfulfilled, also question family allowances or make them dependent on the success of studies that are simply not attainable in reality. All in all, these measures will make universities, students, academic SMEs more affected than any other population group. And there. I should like to say to Mr Khol once again that he has conjured the Austrian Constitution and sung the Song of the Social Partners: The Public Service Union has here sold, sold and abandoned a group of its members, namely the university teachers, with their interests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And wherever one believes that one can pass so one-sidedly over groups in the population – and I like to say: unfortunately – this conflict must then be carried out on the street. You have shown, in a very important area of the future interests of Austria, that it is not really about this preparation for the third millennium, about the future, but you have imposed draconian austerity measures there, where you believe that little counter-resistance will come, where you think that it is about as small groups as students or groups as relatively poorly organized as women, where solidarity would not be enough to bring about a change in the package. Mr Dohr and Mr. Official Trade Unioners have apparently negotiated for the Lords of Section heads and Ministerial Councils, but not for the youth in this country, not for the purpose of a new generation contract, not for education and higher education in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point concerning, above all, the youth in Austria: If you look at what is to be found in this coalition agreement, I really must say that it reads like a bad joke, like a sad joke. It is said literally here in the Coalition Convention: "In the case of housing law, the reform plans will be continued, in particular, to extend lease contracts and to settle the management costs." They continue to consider and think about reform, and you do not seem to notice that dramatic injustices exist in the housing market, that especially those who are looking for housing now, that the young people who need a larger home, that families simply do not find a manageable home, because you have created a right of residence that is complicated and unclear, which is no longer feasible and that has made the basic need of living indispensable. Instead of acting, write: We'll change that, and we'll speed it up! instead, write: We're gonna think about it. Because you know that the coalition partners never come to a green branch on this question, because they are completely different opinions, so you are giving up on this point the interests of young people, the interests of those seeking housing. Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental protection, deficit, emancipation You turn back the wheel of time, you create new dependencies for women, for disabled people. Youth, education, housing – here I miss the future aspects, here no concrete actions are planned. And as far as the fourth and last point I want to address is concerned, the question of security, I cannot see that you really understood or understood the signs of time. On the question of security policy, one must be almost a linguist or a linguist in order to be able to read the Coalition Convention at all. There are incomprehensible sentences and some very cryptic formulations. Only by one did you pass by, by the mere mention of the word neutrality. If you think that neutrality in Austria has served to make it obsolete, you have, please, the courage and write it in. The Greens are not of this opinion. We believe that neutrality – of course, in an ever-increasingly adapted form, of course, while respecting a modern neutrality policy – is a very, very modern and forward-looking instrument of security policy. But it is unbearable that you of SPÖ and ÖVP seem to be quite different opinions, and because you can't discuss that, you make so complicated sentences and hope: No one will understand what we mean. But then there are some very hard cores in that you say that you want to fully participate in the EU's foreign and security policy, you want the WEU to become fully active within the framework of the so-called Petersberger tasks. In combination, this means that you are also seeking this participation for Austria, and that is to say in the clear text – and this is to be said so clearly, and that is finally to say to the Social Democrats – that you have reduced neutrality by cold means so much that nothing remains of it. These Petersberger tasks, which you expressly address here in the Coalition Convention, are all military tasks, from defensive defence tasks to offensive, to attack actions. There is no demarcation here, and I say that this is no longer compatible with Austrian neutrality, just as it is enshrined in the Neutrality Act and as it is in line with the tradition of Austrian neutrality policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more thing I add: It is precisely in the light of the terrible war in Bosnia that it has become clear that purely military concepts of peacekeeping have been used. It has begun too late to observe human rights in the Balkans, it has been too late to be involved, it has failed to put itself on the side of the endangered, the threatened, it has failed to take timely, efficient economic sanctions. And if one reads the Coalition Agreement in this regard, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it is already apparent that this explicitly contains an export offensive that you want to carry out, which you hope will create new jobs. It is only in this chapter on the export offensive that there is no word for human rights. Austria is – unfortunately – already a burned child. Austria has lost a lot of money in the former Eastern Bloc States because we have not assessed the issue of human rights enough. In 1989 these humane, oppressive systems collapsed, thanking God in most of these states, but unfortunately not in all places peaceful. A democratic process has now begun, which is still under way. At that time, in the period before 1989, they granted large export support to business with these countries, the taxpayers had to stand straight for it, and then when the change came, Austria lost a lot of money. They have not drawn any lessons from these losses. They continue to write about export offensives, and we all know which countries these export offensives are linked to: countries where human rights are notorically and seriously violated, with countries such as Iran, Iraq and China in particular. Austrian delegations are hurrying to travel to China. Just now a delegation from the Federal Council is on its way again, eleven persons, from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ. Together they travel to China to give honor to the Chinese rulers in order to celebrate a Chinese holiday and to show that the Austrians are fast money far more important than human rights. I'll tell you: This does not apply to this opposition in the house, and that does not apply to the Austrian population! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We'd rather take her to the chest than squeak her out!]] We can talk about it, Mr deputies. Let's negotiate. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We do not want to limit them because of human rights! They want to cut them off!]] But what you do is business at the expense of human rights. If I look at the fact that the Federal Chancellor can be seen on the front page of the daily newspaper "Kurier", hand in hand in hand with the slaughter of the "place of Heavenly Peace", with the Chinese Prime Minister Li Peng, I must say: [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You only do it when demonstrating! We want to be constructive! You're only doing the same thing at demonstrations!]] Talking and fighting for human rights is something other than being able to make a picture of someone who sticks to blood on his hands. Ladies and gentlemen! Just when you say it's about human rights, you don't want to limit it, I ask you: How does China understand our signals? How does China understand the signals of these bubbling delegations coming from Austria, these bubbling delegations from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I would be ashamed!]] China sees this as an invitation to continue. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We're cutting the subject!]] A few days ago, on the 6th. March this year, a 42-page report by the American State Department on the situation of human rights in Tibet has been published, and this report speaks a very clear language. He speaks of nightmare-like states, he speaks of torture, arbitrary detention and executions for political reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's right!]] China understands these signals that a few billion transactions are more important to the rich Europe, including the rich Austria, than human rights. I'm just telling you one thing: The young people in Austria don't understand this, they don't understand it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is no even fear of letting little children disappear, such as the Panchen Lama, a religious head of the Tibetans, who simply disappeared in China – a seven-year-old child. It is important for me to mention this today in this House, because I believe that we should not let these persons down, we must not put the prisoners and the tortured to death. We should actually be on their side, even if this leads to job losses. This is good money when we rely on human rights and invest there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] China has also understood that the Austrian behaviour, if it is now taking more threats towards Taiwan, towards Singapore, and if it clearly shows: We know that there is no danger from the rich Europe. They are so empathetic that they try to dry their sharpness that no cock – at least not from the government bank – will brag after human rights. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the real questions for Austria: Environmental protection, emancipation, education policy and youth and human rights issues and their links with foreign policy. And as long as you do not find honest answers to these questions as long as you believe that you are able to stand up to your responsibilities with words and even with purely commercial, purely profit-oriented considerations, as long as I am an opposition politician, I am talking to you about the competence that you are leading Austria on a good, ecological path to the third millennium.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3788	Mr Schüssel has now referred to the debate. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3809	High house! I think it is important, after the first round of the speakers of the five parliamentary groups has been completed, to look back at the whole thing, what it is all about when it comes to the major challenges of the forthcoming government work. Most European countries suffer from excessive budget deficits. Austria is certainly not alone. However, our deficit increased significantly in 1995. Now, according to the international criteria in Europe, we have over 6 per cent budget deficit, and if we do not counter this – and I have to say that to all those opposition speakers, who criticize individual measures, taking advantage of the overall programme – it is precisely this – that is what you fear, that is, unsocial effects, that interest rates will rise, inflation will go up, and it would have disastrous effects on today's jobs, but more on future competitiveness. Therefore, the question of the sense of saving must be asked. Why do we do all that? But not as a self-evident to annoy anyone, not out of profit or to turn back the wheel of time, ultra-conservative, as you obviously call a part of the government. Don't touch me. Because the future of the coming generation is at our heart because we need to create a basis for the coming prosperity, for the opportunities for development, for political development. It's not enough for me to say, Everyone needs to tighten the belt, but let's start strolling around the belt of the neighbor. Everyone is concerned, and this is the task of the government to give everyone the feeling of doing the right thing with an overall concept. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we must not close our eyes to the fact that, at the moment, the European economy is weakening, not only in Austria, but at the moment it is not growing at all. This is so in Germany, in France, in the Scandinavian countries, also in Austria. It is therefore important that we do not accept this as God-given, but that it is countered that higher unemployment rates are not simply taken up, but that we have developed a common employment offensive concept, that through improved investment promotion opportunities, the investment-free amount is increased, by initiatives in different areas, for rail, for road, for environmental investments, – through investments in residential construction – it is counter-controlled. This is what connects this government, social democrats and the People's Party, that we have done very constructively here and make this an important focus of our forthcoming work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But it is important that we keep an eye on this and that we do not kneel before still legitimate individual interests. I have already been disturbed by the fact that some opposition speakers have carried out a very typical target group selection. There is the target group of construction workers, there is the target group of the students, there is the target group of women. One word is dropped for each one. Just, please, where's the look at the whole thing? The farmers, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the employees, the investors, the officials will be able to perform and say: We also have legitimate interests! I believe that what the government and the two coalition parties have done with good results is – and that was not easy – to develop a 100 billion schilling rehabilitation programme in such a way that we can socially represent it at the end of next year as one of the few countries in Europe with the opportunity to participate fully in economic and monetary union, and that no one must have the feeling of being punished or demanded by a fee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We do what is necessary, and we want to do it quickly. We have not therefore needed eight months of net negotiation so that we can discuss the competences or the ministries, but for the first time in the history of government negotiations we have presented the government statement to you yesterday, we will be discussing it today and will be taking place tomorrow a special Council of Ministers which will submit two annual budgets and dozens of accompanying laws to the House. So we have presented, not mere rhetoric or poetry, as some have criticized, Blabla or speech bubbles, but very concrete implementation measures. We have already dealt with the negotiations with the public service, serious negotiations, and it is to be thanked to the officials that they have a 16-billion share in the overall rehabilitation programme. In my opinion, this proves to be great, and the Siegi Mr Dohr should not be shocked here, as Mrs Petrovic has just done, because he is a great trade union leader, such as Toni Benya, who has been listening to us for a long time, knowing that the whole thing is more important than the more justified part-interests. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But I don't just want the Siegi. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Nürnberger has been in the negotiation team or has been active, Madethaner, Hostasch as a social partners. Where is the situation throughout Europe that such a rehabilitation programme is being carried with the support of the social partners, without strikes, without French conditions, because the social partners know that the whole is more important than the remaining part-interests. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It has already been pointed out by the previous speakers that the outcome of the elections in democracy must be taken into account. And what did the voters and the voters want? – They wanted – and this can really be interpreted – the cooperation in Austria, the cooperation between the two old and new coalition partners, which have come together once again on the basis of an improved, more energetic and also more feasible reform programme. But you also want, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition, the cooperation between the government and all the parliamentary groups. And you should not refuse to do so, in the event of such justified criticism, no question at all. But please try to differentiate a little too. Only new tax advantages, such as part-time work, or those benefits or the like, will be too few in view of the need for savings, I think. But hopefully the invitation from us should also follow the positive answer from you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also think it is important that the politicians themselves take a good lead in doing so. I also say quite openly: I am very important – and I know here, too, with Dr. Vrannitzky, certainly of an opinion – that we want to have a political image in the public, which is not characterized by being a nehmer, but we want politicians who are your best giver – for the country, for their constituency, and ultimately also for the interest of our future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is also no surprise to me that the overall programme is actually being carried in detail – with many criticisms, but in a majority way. Why? – Because the little people sometimes know much better than so-called elites know what is necessary. And that is why some who are now particularly strong in the public with their protests should also consider whether they are really the only ones affected or whether they are not part of the whole. This is addressed to universities that are not affected by the 100-billion schilling spar with even one billion schilling. But this is also the answer to the very many letters that we have received from economic trustees or investors who have spoken about writing down models, about building master models, about various individual benefits. I understand all of this. But my thanks go primarily to the hundreds of thousands of small people who are willing to make their share in the sacrifice to carry it along. Yeah, it'll be painful. We know that. It is important, however, to be better off in the future and to ensure that pensions, social benefits and jobs are safeguarded. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I said we were better there today than a year ago or in autumn last year, because we mean it honestly. It is already stated in the budgets that 11 000 posts will be reduced, that there will be ambitious outlays, that there will be various changes, such as the elimination of inflation compensation for politicians over four years. Furthermore, it is stated that there should be a clear brake at early pensions. This is implemented in the public service as well as in the ASVG, but also in the railways. But those who have negotiated these measures should not be reproached but grateful to them for being willing to provide us with protection in the interests of the whole. At this point I would like to make a very clear commitment to a professional official in the future. Being a government servant is something special and therefore also needs a certain protection against political arbitraryity. This has also been expressed by the Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as the government is concerned, we have also set a good example. Anyone with an average intelligence knows that this does not reorganise the budget, but that, compared to the last coalition agreement, we have reduced the number of federal ministers by at least five members of the government, namely from 21 to 16, i.e. one quarter, I think, more than one symbol. This sign should make clear that we are progressing with good example. I have looked at a statistics describing the governments of Europe in the European Union in terms of size, women's share and all that belongs to it: We are after Luxembourg that country that has the smallest government throughout the EU. Perhaps you should take a positive view of this – at least once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: We are also the second smallest country!]] The new government has only more than fourteen ministries. In the future, we will also try to reduce double competence and multiple competences. A minister shall not belong to either the SPÖ or the People's Party: This is the new old Justice Minister Dr. Michalek, who is party independent. I say quite clearly at this point: It is important to us that justice is guided by a party-independent specialist who enjoys all of our confidence. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now I come to the second major issue – and this can be read by anyone who reads the Government Convention according to objective criteria –: In my opinion, Austria will not be able to avoid major changes. It is, of course, Mrs Schmidt that the government's work programme contains the flexibility of working time. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I didn't argue! The shop opening times don't happen!]] These are not old "lyrik" from ten years ago or six years ago or four years ago. No, we have already taken a big step forward in the negotiations with the social partners on this issue. It is of course clear that these essential issues can only be resolved by the government together with the social partners – in a reasonable partnership relationship. It is an offensive to more part-time work in the work programme of the Federal Government. In spite of your fears, it contains precise and clear words about opening hours and liberalisation in this area – of course only with the involvement of the social partners. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt shakes his head.]] It also calls for a modern, especially young entrepreneurs and business start-ups to be promoted. We want to make it possible for 50 000 new businesses to be set up in the next few years by 2,000 in the context of a wave of founders. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's what we all want!]] Even before the summer, Ministers will put together Ditz and Climate to develop such a founding programme, which will go from guarantees to institutional savings to administrative relief, which they will then propose to the House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know very well: There is no institution that can create jobs. No government can guarantee jobs, not at all new ones. Jobs can only be created and permanently secured by businesses. That is why it is so important that, in addition to the necessary savings, we have also given appropriate impulses. A very important point will be the export offensive. Practically every second schilling that we achieve in international competition in Austria comes from the export front. Our values are not bad at all. Last year, in the year following our accession to the European Union, we exported more Shilling 10 or 11 billion to the other EU Member States. We have exported 10 billion Schillings to the East last year and now have a surplus of 20 billion Schillings. In Asia, there are the most dynamic growth markets in the future. Half of humanity lives and lives there, and there are booming markets. So much for the fact that Austria sometimes feels as a navel in the world, but we must not forget that our prosperity and our economic performance can only be brought in to a very high degree through an Asia offensive. We have made clear projects in the field of health. It is true that there are only a few sentences in the Coalition Agreement. However, we have explicitly said that this part of a separate round of negotiations is reserved for the representatives of the countries, the municipalities and hospitalists, which will be completed by the summer. The Federal Chancellor pointed out yesterday that there is more money – there are 7 billion schilling, which should be added over the next four years – for the health sector. However, this only on condition that ambitious reforms are implemented, that a coordinated development plan is actually being implemented, that one builds on performance incentives in the billing. The money will not flow from the outset and automatically, but we will have to ensure that the necessary accents are set in the reform of health policy. The program will be available until summer. We have written a sentence in the Government Convention, which is very important: that health care, including advertising in this area, should be provided by social security companies. Then: A reasonable AIDS-anti-advertising or information or education saves millions of schilling from follow-up costs. Similar things should happen in the direction of proper nutrition, exercise and so on. These are offensive parts contained in this Government Convention. Of course, a reform of social security funds is also necessary. Organisational reforms remain on the agenda. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since many speakers have said something about the family, I do not want to pass this point either, especially since it is very, very important to my party. The families remain central concerns for the Federal Government and for this cooperation. So that there is no error: What I say, I also mean, it is supported by facts, and it is the truth and nothing but that. Austria is the best family country in the world. We have the best family policy achievements: Transfer services, cash benefits, security. This is not going to change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is nowhere in the world a country that guarantees the protection of the right to work for a woman who gives birth to children for two years. There is no country in the world, which through 18 plus six months, depending on how the partners freely choose the possibilities to make karenz payments. There is no such broad financial support anywhere in the world. There is nowhere in the world such a dense network of family advisory services. It is a pleasure that we have been able to work together to provide 600 million Schilling as a one-time start-up impulse for the countries and communities in order to improve the network of childcare facilities. This is money that the countries have, and they have promised to invest this purposeful in 1997, enriched by their own money, in addition in childcare facilities. Only: Let's not do anything! Many of the problems that families have today are not to be solved with money alone. This concerns the question of drug use, especially among young people, where we can still put so much money in it, and this question cannot be solved. The question of parenting is also more important than ever. This also applies to the issue of the use of violence on television and in other media. We know that at present we are training the first generation, which is seen in its youth, which in puberty has between 10,000 and 15,000 serious crimes, things which could at least be kept away from youth. The problem that there is too little time for the children in many families should also give us the same thought as the necessary material support for families. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next area, which is very important – it has already been discussed in many discussions –: the question of Europe and the question of the external security of Austria. We are now two of our membership in the European Union in the year. You can say: We are Europeans, but Austrians we stay! We have excellent people in the institutions of the European Union: Commissioner Franz Fischler, responsible for employment policy, development cooperation, transport, regional development. Our scope for action has increased significantly. This has been seen, for example, at the Asia Summit, in Balkan policy, on development aid. I believe that we should also use these spaces offensively. It is therefore necessary for us to make a clear commitment to the fact that we want to participate fully in all the policies of the European Union from the outset, including the common foreign and security policy. Let's not do anything! Our security is as affected as it is with us in Sarajevo and Palestine. It is therefore important that, in addition to classical constitutional neutrality, we develop increasingly the pillar of solidarity. That is why we are creating a "Federal Constitutional Law for Solidarity and International Cooperation". This is not because we are in a state of war, no, because we want to secure peace – in Europe, but also with us. The best safety for Austria is just good enough! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have just written down these parts of the Coalition Agreement very precisely, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, and everyone who can read and understand knows exactly what it means: From the outset, we also want to participate in foreign and security policy as a full member. That is our common intention! We do not have a preliminary discussion, but we have agreed that we want to discuss further aspects, such as the question of full membership in the Western European Union, just after the end of the EU government conference in 1996 and before Austria's presidency takes over in the EU. This discussion is necessary; it should not be preferred, but should not be suppressed. What we are planning is clear and precise, and it serves Austrian interests! [[Abg. Wabl: Is this compatible with neutrality: yes or no?]] Some have criticized the work agreement as a disappointment. Yes, it is a deception in some relation, it brings an end to some illusions, which obviously still prevail in some opposition speakers, namely that one can promise something new, good and no one needs to hurt. I can't! Deceiving! New sense of reality! New responsibility! Ensuring social benefits through a stable economy! Ensuring jobs through improved competitiveness and site security! A new honesty in the cooperation of the coalition partners! [[Abg. Wabl: What was the old honesty?]] New courage not only to announce decisions, but also to enforce them! For me, actually, the most beautiful sentence in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" article already quoted today is: "With all these measures, Austria can be seen in the European comparison. Vienna has every reason to be proud of being in the first row of those who want to complete economic and monetary union. Austria has proved to be an exemplary country in which the stability requirements have been met without social confusion." - That's what an independent observer says. It's not a incense. This should give us the courage to deal with the coming weeks together in the interest of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4020	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from now on, the speaking time for Members' debates is 15 minutes in accordance with agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4041	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Let me make another statement before I get into my actual speech. Mrs Petrovic said that Mr Bundeskanzler was acting like an insulter to the publication in a weekly magazine. I see this completely different: It is not about the reaction of an insulted person, but it is really in our all interest – including in yours – that the dignity of man must not be violated by such journalism. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No one has responded with the women!]] That should be our common concern! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why didn't you react when the same thing happened to me? In the "weekpress"! That was funny for you, that was funny!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We debated the last declaration of government about 16 months ago. Since then, many debates have taken place in our country about the future. Many political parties' programmes, the interest groups, have been critically examined. I am glad that some of these programmes have not become reality, such as the project to abolish free school books, the intention to delete the second year of leave, the demand for a reduction in the entitlement to leave or unemployment benefit, the proposal that officials should work an hour longer without payment, the idea that certain holidays should be transferred to a Sunday. These were all the demands of the Freedom Party! Today, the demand has been raised again that opening hours should be changed without the participation of the trade workers concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that these programmes have not found the majority of Austrians behind them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor am I of the opinion of certain Siemens managers – in which the new line is seen – who say that the Austrians who work at Siemens should in fact be available around the clock for half a year if necessary. However, I would like to make it clear: Siemens, for example, has more than 100 employees in the field of software development last year, and I believe that this should be passed on as a positive report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that these programmes have not been implemented, which we received very much again and again in the previous year and last year, namely: The labour market problem, the economic problems, we solve by reducing social benefits by cutting down social rights, the labour market will already be regulated. No, we now have to do with a new quality, with a path that has been going in Austria for decades, a different way from the one I have just described. If we allow the years 1992/93 to pass revision, we see that we have also taken a different path from the international one at the time. In Austria, we have not made unemployment rise, but through joint actions by the Federal Government and the social partners, we have ultimately contributed to ensuring employment in Austria in comparison with all other European countries. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] It costs money, which even costs a lot of money, which also cost a lot of money in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if we are following the current debate on the question of the employment of foreign construction workers in the Federal Republic of Germany, where, after long political debates, we have finally adopted a draft directive but at the same time said: It will only be effective if the social partners agree on a wage level!, then I am against the fact that we have acted in good time here in Austria, and by means of the inexpressible AVRAG - contract law adapting legislation - in Austria already have a corresponding directive in which, no matter where the employee comes from, the same conditions of pay are required. I believe that the sign is that there is another way too. Since newspapers have already been quoted today, I would also like to quote a newspaper, namely the "South German newspaper" of the 12th century. March 1996, in which it is noted under the heading "Happy German-Austrian Auto-Ehen" that more and more renowned vehicle manufacturers are using the high know-how of Austrian companies to further expand their production. That should actually be positive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I personally agree with all those who say we live in a crazy world. Yes, it's a crazy world! If a company leader announces that he will cancel 40,000 employees, and then the stock prices up to the level quickly, if on the other hand – especially last week – the American stock market has reacted negatively to the fact that more employment could be achieved, then I must say: It's a crazy world that's really in the foreground: What do the dividends look like? It is not what we have put in the foreground in our country for decades: decent profits, but also employment policy as a common conclusion. That is why I also agree with the Federal Chancellor, who said clearly and clearly yesterday in his statement of Government: He prefers to create workshops and not just buy securities. – I believe that this is the right policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about the development of employment! This also makes us very worried in Austria: An unemployment rate approaching the 300 000 border cannot result in saying: In international comparison, we still have an excellent situation. I believe that the path taken yesterday or today to change the labour market policy is the right one. We know that we have problems in the construction industry. But we didn't wait for a new government to stand. Instead, the Federal Government and the social partners have already composed themselves in the last months of last year and also in the first days of the new year and discussed possible measures for the construction industry. It was even the subject of a parliamentary question whether one should be allowed to do so at a time when there is no newly appointed Federal Government. However, I think: Waiting to see how the labour market is developing negatively would be the wrong starting point. . I believe that it is right to pursue an offensive policy and thus achieve a corresponding development. When honourable Member Haider asks: What is it for a labour market service that no longer pays unemployment benefit when someone attends the construction police school? Then I just want to keep up with the fact, Mr Haider: There is a collective contract between the construction industry, which provides that the company pays compensation for the construction policy rather than the labour market management. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: If he stays in the company!]] This is in the collective agreement, clear and clear. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But it doesn't seem to work!]] It is gratifying that the Bundesinnungsmeister of the construction industry confesses himself to this collective contract, unfortunately some Styrian and Carinthian entrepreneurs do not do so. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Why is he looking at me?]] This is the problem in this context, but not the labour market service, Mr Haider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need resources for employment measures, and we need a budget that is capable of action. Therefore, after long consultations, the ÖGB has in principle given its approval to this new path. This is not a consent without If and But. If you have been pursuing what has finally been changed in the last few days and weeks or there in the basic policy statements of the two government parties, you have been able to see that the demands of the trade unions have been taken very seriously into account. Mr Haider! There is also no consent of the ÖGB to ten, eleven, twelve or thirteen hours of daily working time. They know that this is a call for entrepreneurs. The ÖGB is concerned with the flexibility of working time, the need for both sides to bring something – the individual worker, the family and the economic operators together – and that this must not be a unilateral measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, the content of the debates can also be asked in the FPÖ's ranks, and Mr Blünegger is also on the board of directors of the ÖGB and can clarify this accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! In my last speech on the last statement of government, I asked clearly and clearly here: Who here in this room hurts the savings package? – At that time, the answer was quite a matter of silence. If we look at the new proposals for fiscal consolidation today, then we can say to myself that it has been tried and, as I believe, has also succeeded in not distributing the burden on individual populations alone, not in turning it off to specific groups of people, but in distributing this burden evenly and according to performance. I believe that this is the right way in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, it is about maintaining the scope for movement with these budget measures, namely the scope for new employment. In the end, it is also a question of fighting a policy which alone dictates the conditions. For example, if a Vorarlberg operator of the confectionery industry explains quite dry on television: If the law isn't changed like that, I'll cancel staff tomorrow!, then it's a wrong policy, which is said on the basis of individual interests: That is what we want, and if policy does not respond accordingly, then we will act against it. I am against such corporate leadership and I am also acting on by the Trade Union Confederation. What we need is rather a proper debate on the questions: Is reworking a desired form of working time? – What damage do we have to do in the longer term through night work? . I also see in the agreement on labour the right way for the social partners to discuss it together. Night work – under what conditions? Night work – under what compensatory measures? For one thing has been proved: Long-term night work is damaging the body, damaging the organism and also damaging the family, so it should not become a normal state, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also expect – and the Chancellor mentioned this yesterday in his statement of government – that we are finally drawing closer to this objective of equal labour rights and achieving it. There are only a few steps that separate us from it. In this respect, a great effort should be made to implement it. It is also a question of the fact that work contracts do not constitute an escape from labour law. This may be a burden for the individual at the moment or there. But the moment he then has medical costs and needs social care, he calls after the social network. – That is why I believe that the path that is now being taken is the right one. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Let us take advantage of the time of parliamentary consultation in different directions! Mr Vice-Chancellor said: Prevention is better than taking over the costs related to nutrition and other diseases. I also believe that it is more than ever necessary to highlight health in the working world, prevention, prevention from accidents at work, unhealthful working conditions. I also believe that it is worth thinking – even if one or the other does not like to hear it – about the pocket money for care providers again. I think it is also about the dignity of the individual person. We should also benefit from parliamentary deliberations. By the way, this also applies to the karenz period. Even here, I believe, it is a matter of providing reasonable solutions to the problems that arise – because these are problems if a woman or a man has no means of care for the child – in the end a solution. In the end, we are also concerned with the question of the budget whether it will be successful to limit the misuse of fiscal design possibilities there or there – if, for example, permanent recoverys and thus, in reality, only the payment targets are postponed. The question of fruit pleasure should also be debated honestly here. [[Congratulations and call at the SPÖ:Yes!]] If we redesign the Ministry of Transport, we are also concerned with securing the growth sectors. A kind of Austrian "swatch" would be desirable, for example. Export marketing, initiative company start-up et cetera are just a few keywords here. Ladies and gentlemen! One word on European integration: In just a few weeks, the new Federal Government will have the opportunity to focus on the European Intergovernmental Conference in Turin, which it has addressed in its own government programme, namely the question of employment, also in the EU. It is not a question of the keyword standing somewhere, but it is a question, for example, of the actual use of the billions of the European Structural Funds for employment policy measures. Finally, let me say: The electorate, the citizen, has given the government parties a high level of confidence. The government programme sets out the objectives that are appropriate to justify this confidence. – It is up to us to act quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4214	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4235	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kussel! What you have said, it sounds pretty good in part, but it does not find any precipitation at all in Parliamentary reality. They said that the voters wanted to cooperate. – Only: The voters also want the opposition to be included and that requests from the opposition in Parliament should also be taken into account. But it is indeed true that the opposition's applications are not at all heard. There are dozens of applications in Parliament, without them being put on the agenda at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Right!]] And here in Parliament we still have to keep track of the lack of our constructive proposals. – That's not true at all. Rather, it is like this: Our proposals are there, but they are simply not heard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kussel! In the meantime, you have really been talking out and talking as grueling as a priest, but like one from another world. They say, for example, that the family takes a central note of this declaration of government. – But you cut down everything that the family has done financially so far! They say how important the economy is to you. – In fact, however, delete You're hurting the losses, and you're hurting the companies enormously! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true!]] You also harm the companies because you are now treating the contracts under social security law. This is at the expense of the entrepreneur again, because it is certain that the employer will demand something from the entrepreneur that he will now have to pay social security contributions. We all know these beautiful words, they are also included in the Government Declaration. I am very grateful to a journalist who, in the report this week, has faced Mr Schlögl's Secretary of State with the question: How is it, in fact, how does such a declaration of government actually come about? Is there just a copy of what was stated in the previous government statement? – And later, Mr Brandstätter said, whose opinion I do not usually share: If you read the Government Declaration, you don't think you've thought about it. . I really can only give him full support, ladies and gentlemen, with my first major reason for this approval being the composition of the new Federal Government. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Federal Chancellor! You want to do a future package in this legislative period. They want to master the great tasks of the future. But you have ministers in your government who do not even deal with current tasks. Then how do you want to master the great tasks of the future? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, you give a Minister Scholten, who has failed in the field of research policy so that today we in Europe are the final light, including the Transport sector. This minister is absolutely overwhelmed! And how, Mr. Bundeskanzler, do you actually come to the idea of ordering a Caspar One back to the Minister of the Interior? This is really the proverbial bock that you make the gardener to have a desolate garden in front of you afterwards. What does Caspar actually have? One qualified as Minister of the Interior – except perhaps his donation to the "TATblatt"? - Nothing! I can only tell you, Mr. Federal Chancellor! I really want to know about you: How is this Minister of the Interior to deal with the major challenges of the future? How should it deal with the dangers of organised crime? In his almost one year's term of office, this minister did not make a constructive proposal for a better fight against crime. This Ministry of the Interior is muffled, you don't hear anything, but every now and then a ruffler, which is like this: The federal army, the presence service is abolished! Or: You have to do more for civil service! Or: There must be more foreigners in Austria. But constructive proposals on security policy are simply not available. And order this minister again! I don't understand at all, Federal Chancellor! And the ÖVP – I am already with you – looks at you! Mr Kiss, before the elections, demanded the rescinding of the Minister of the Interior for inability, but after the election he fully agrees to his reselling. The ÖVP agrees that this minister is back in the cabinet. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Federal Chancellor has capitulated. He capitulated in front of the left in his party, to whom he had to admit the Caspar One, because they apparently see in him a possibility to realize their ideas, for example a security resort with an executive that is kept as small as possible. [[Abg. Oils: Where are the left?]] It is necessary to reduce staff – there will be fewer executives by 1,000 – and one would also like to eliminate the executives as far as possible. The new Security Academy, already planned, has now taken control of the Minister himself. There, the polytologist Pelinka will have the say. – Imagine that the executive is working. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Brainwashing!]] A brainwashing, yes, that's how it can be described. If I look at the 1994 Declaration of Government and the present Declaration of Government, I have to conclude at all, Federal Chancellor, that the Minister of the Interior has not even given you sufficient ideas for the Government Declaration. What is stated in the Government Declaration on Security Policy is so poor that we have to ask ourselves: What do we even need the Interior Minister for? Let us also give the resort to the shell, because it can no longer be annoyed at all! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! In my opinion, this is the most serious misappropriation you have made in the formation of this cabinet. They are ordering someone to become a Minister of Security, the Minister of the Interior, who is still a parole helper in his heart and who will remain, to whom the anarchists stand closer than the right-wing population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Under the leadership of the interior resort by Caspar It has already been pre-programmed that organised crime – with money laundering, drug trafficking, corruption – which wants to undermine the entire state will spread unhindered. And you from the Austrian People's Party agree. Mr Schüssel is still knocking on the shoulder and vice versa. They are constantly advocating that you have a federal government that is really capable of working and will continue to operate over the millennium. I believe that you will not solve the major problems. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, are also looking to the Government Declaration to have a government that will rest on a good foundation and carry out a future package. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "Mogelpaket", said Sallmutter!]] As I said, Scholten is a minister who already represents a strong undermining of this foundation. An even greater undermining is Caspar One, I have already said that. But the Social Minister is at least as dangerous an undermining as it is. I'll tell you why. – Yes, he is very sympathetic, the Minister of Social Affairs, I admit he is also kind to me! I also take the honest effort from him. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Numerous calls to the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! But at this time with these serious problems, especially in the social sector, an honest effort and a sympathetic minister are not enough, but there are people who really have visions of the future. That's thinkers! [[Abg. Leikam: Gaugg maybe!]] It is not enough for one to manage a ministry! - No, there's no talk about being locked in. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't be so inaccurate! But this minister only manages the area of social affairs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have to admit that we are facing the ruins of the social state today. [[Abg. Koppler: That must not be true!]] If disabled people are asked to check out if the families are asked to check out, you will still be talking about a functioning social state. [[Calls and countercalls to the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] And this pleite of the social state bears the social democratic manuscript, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Want to thank God!]] Do you know why we are facing such a pleite of the social state? – You have conjured them up through your mismanagement, through many pleas in the economy. I just remember the AMAG debacle, the DDSG debacle. You have thus contributed to the fact that, in times of economic prosperity, all the funds have become empty, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The families are heavily burdened, as are the farms, and unemployment has reached the ceiling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You're in a hurry.]] Tell me, do you still defend the high level of unemployment? Do you defend the high additional wage costs that result in companies investing abroad? [[Abg. Nicer: That's huge!]] And to that end, you are affording yourself a social minister who really only manages the social resort, who has never had an idea of how to continue to finance this social state in the next few years; a social minister who says that the pension system is still eligible for funding without any cuts. That's really grotesque! I was at a discussion event where the section head of the Social Ministry said the following words: If the pension system has so far been so, then it will be the same in the future. – This is what the highest official in the Social Ministry says, ladies and gentlemen. I don't need to tell you how the auditorium responded. People just shook their heads in disbelief over so much naughtiness. It is proof of how pension development will take place. In 1981, 1 000 pensioners fell to 531 pensioners; in 1994 there were 593 pensioners who fell to 1 000 workers, 2030 there will be 760 pensioners who will have to be received by 1 000 working people. And in view of that, the Minister says: There will be no need to make in-depth reforms at all. Federal Chancellor! You said yesterday: Put concepts in place, we're ready to talk to you. We presented a pension concept in 1985, one that is similar to that already in most OECD countries, which is a forward-looking model. . We said that with a period of 20 years, one could overcome the worst hardness. You have not responded, although you are supposed to have such a great willingness to talk. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: A bad pension concept!]] We have already spent 11 years of this preliminary period and now have the chance to have a pension system in nine years, which will also enable the future working population to get into the enjoyment of a pension. Today, young people must be afraid that they will no longer receive a pension. We now face the unfinancing of this right of retirement. That, I think, is what we have to admit. In your government programmes, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are always talking about an ambitious policy, about future solutions, about rehabilitation measures, but in fact "water" you always only in the old tracks and have no will for renewal at all. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Every rethinking is a terrible word for you, and unfortunately, Federal Chancellor, you also lack the strength to make a decisive effort here, and unfortunately – and this has now turned out – you do not even have the talent to put the right ministers in the right place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say one thing: I have really been very shocked that the word "advised" does not occur at all throughout the declaration of government. You know very well that, as a result of the savings package, the disabled are extremely uncertain. After all, you're kicking the disabled with 4 billion schilling, and you don't even find it worth saying a word to them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the previous government program, you have looked after yourself with the fact that you have introduced care - a centenary benefit. Now you cut it down, and other obligations will be introduced for the disabled – all with the reference to having the care provision. This is once collected, but ten times counted on various achievements. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is really not a programme that we can subscribe to! This is a programme in which the socially weak come under the wheels.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4506	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4529	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I did not expect the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to praise the Government Declaration and the Coalition Agreement. First of all, this does not correspond to parliamentary experience, second, it also revives speech and opposition and the power play in Parliament. But I can also say from experience: If I had kept a completely different government statement, that is...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4559	I may ask the staff of the House to intervene in order to prevent this. Mr Bundeskanzler, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4583	Ladies and gentlemen! If I had not said a single sentence of the statement of government held yesterday, but had kept a completely different declaration of government, I am quite sure that some of the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties would have given just as much of their prepared speeches here today and would have presented their ideas as they would have liked. In a declaration of government, it is also not possible to cover in all details all the details of government work, the parliamentary work of the next four years in one and a half hours. It must be a fundamental representation of government policy, and therefore I am also on what the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democrats have worked out and held in the Government Convention. We believe that this is the right thing to do, we think it is a forward-looking policy for the next four years, and we thank you for your contributions, but we will not be dissociated from our baseline. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some very few details, because it was said again and again... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Mr. Federal Chancellor! Individual declarations of government – just like that!]] I can't do a private vote with you now, my colleague, perhaps we can do this later. It has also been said that no structural change measures have been incorporated into the government agreement. I said this yesterday, and I say this with greater emphasis today: In the main areas of policy, economic, financial, fiscal, small and medium-sized enterprises, the policy of old-age pensions, structural change and structural policy. – I mention a few examples, ladies and gentlemen: The fact alone – and this will certainly be of particular interest to parliamentarians – that it has succeeded... [[The ORF camera man at the Hall Department tries to get one of the leaflets dropped by the gallery from one of the ministerial officials present. This is refused, on which several protesters of the Freeman hold a copy of the flyer in front of the camera clearly visible to the camera.]] [[The leaflet is being filmed.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] This is really a Parliament full of life!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4640	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We will call for a session immediately!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I'm asking for discipline now. I'll take care of the matter. Mr. Federal Chancellor, please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4672	Please, Mr President. I was just pointing out, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that a substantial part of the coalition agreement exists in the consultation mechanism between Parliament, the Land Days, the municipal parliaments and the Federal Government. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have made sure that no legislative body in the future will be able to pass laws that bring financial disadvantages to other local authorities. This is an essential step in Austrian financial policy, and this must also be done if we are to prepare for a common currency in Europe, in which not only the federal financial data can be calculated, but also the federal states and municipalities. This is an essential structural innovation in our system! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has repeatedly taken out individual groups and referred to them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have just written the balance in this entire consolidation paper in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen! We have done so in the first place, because this balance also enabled the acceptance of a large part of the population to be achieved, and without this acceptance we could not have worked out and implemented these measures. If this balance were not given now, for example, if one had completely excluded one group or another, then we would not be in line with a proven majority feeling and desire of the Austrian population. It must also be added that, as we know from many surveys and surveys, a large part of the population follows, but some representatives obviously do not share this opinion of the population or do not want to express it here. Ladies and gentlemen! We have given particular attention to this balance on the major issue of "preventing the abuse of our public institutions". We are not only concerned that some people overinterpret the social systems, but we are concerned that we have also produced equality and balance here. It is therefore not only about the abuse of social institutions, the abuse of the tax system, the abuse of the support system, but also about cooperation across the borders of the local authorities and where it is necessary, also across the national borders, in order to prevent loopholes for some who can be better targeted than others in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important aspect of future political work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are also confessing, although we know that this is not an easy and easy measure for all, to increase energy taxation. Mrs Petrovic, representative of the Greens, has today criticised this. Over the years, the Greens have repeatedly called for an increase in energy consumption prices. I remember suggestions that a litre of petrol should cost 20 or 22 s. [[Abg. Wabl: We never wanted that! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] And I remember how you have repeatedly called for higher taxation of energy. [[Abg. Wabl: Cap has suggested that!]] And now you're saying that's not an ecological effect, just because the additional wage costs were not affected. Explain to me what additional wage costs have to do with the environmental effect of energy taxation. I'll tell you: Nothing, but they have nothing to do with it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or: Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – this debate can also be held – you say that this group should be excluded, that group should be excluded. But then the balance would no longer be made. There you should say immediately that: They do not want to consolidate public finances at all. That's it when you call for strike when you call for counter-moves. If you say that a sound financial constitution, a healthy financial system in Austria, is not important to you, then we know at least exactly, then we know that we cannot count on this matter with your cooperation, but do not pursue a target group policy in order to fake something you do not intend to do at all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You should speak to Mrs. Konrad once!]] If you want to talk to Mrs. Konrad, you don't have to interrupt me. Talk to her later, and it's all right. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The main theme of European integration: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt complained here, Austria or the Federal Government would not have any clear ideas for the extension of the East. On the contrary: Austria is among the few among the 15 Member States of the European Union, who not only have clear ideas in this regard, but also in the bodies, are always committed to doing so in the various Council meetings. We believe that if the European integration model is a model of stability and peace, then as many countries as possible, in particular the countries in our neighbourhood, should belong to it. But it is not enough if the Austrian Federal Government alone has clear ideas about this. It is agreed that after the conclusion of the EU Government Conference, which took place on 29 July, the European Council of Ministers of the United Nations held its first meeting in Brussels on 29 December. In Turin on March, the Commission will start to write a report on each candidate country, a report on the progress made so far by the individual countries in order to qualify as candidates for negotiations. A political decision should then be taken within the framework of the European Council on which countries will be able and able to open negotiations after a certain period of time for accession. This is a perfectly clear procedure. The Austrian Federal Government supports this process because we are not only EU external borders as regards security, but also because we want to know about economic, cultural and other cooperation with these countries in our neighbourhood and do not want to know the time when we can work with them at the same level and on the same basis. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé liked to pick out some colleagues from the Federal Government and express her displeasure. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am not going to be tempted to hold a curriculum about each one and discuss it with you. However, I say to you the following: I believe that, in the interplay of opposition and government, it is a political practice, a political craftsmanship, that, for a work ahead of us, there is a chance for everyone to be able to enforce what he has done, and to be able to implement what he has done. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As far as the Minister for the Interior is concerned, we all know here that, for example, he has made progress in the fight against crime. The relevant statistics are known, and the Minister of the Interior, as well as the Coalition Agreement, has important projects to further develop internal security. These are to be consulted in the Committees here in the House, and it is necessary to draw up legislation. Do that, you are members of these committees, and then judge how good or how little good your assessment of some ministers works. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is also true because you have also been lovingly concerned with him, for the Minister of Social Affairs. I would like to ask you and invite you to read in the Coalition Agreement that very important and interesting projects are in place in the area of pension insurance, in the field of future pension schemes and financing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are uninformed!]] I'm not uninformed at all, but you said he's honest and kind. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But he's not suitable!]] I tell you that I am not going to call an dishonest and unsympathetic social minister to the Federal Government. Work on the committees, and then we'll see. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's nice that we can do that! But it is nice that you allow us to do so!]] They stand here and criticize a colleague of mine, and I take the liberty to defend these colleagues. Take note of this! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's not about colleagues, it's about resorts!]] I have read all morning in my papers whether there is anything to answer to today's speech by Dr. Haider, namely in some way a constructive policy. I didn't think of anything at all. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] It was – I looked at the clock – after the seventh speech only the first sham word came, but then it paid off to listen to him. I don't even think about it in detail anymore. But I don't let one sit on me, and that's this flowery comparison of Baron Münchhausen. – Mr Dr. Haider! You're really the most inappropriate thing to hop through the area on this cannon ball. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You seem to have met!]] I give you the tax-free title of an Austrian statemaster in sloppy handling of the truth – from your "Schildlaus"-flunkery in a television discussion with me until you said that the Interior Minister was in Zweettl. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] There's an entire list of untruths. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That was harmless of your untruths in the election! Your own election propaganda!]] – So you’re surely the worst good person to tell someone else the untruth. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Baron Münchhausen!]] I will not go into Mrs Petrovic's comment on the "profile" cover either, but I am sure that if she comes to such a situation, she will not comment on it, because there must be everyone with what moves him to leave alone with this subject. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We – the Federal Government, the two government parties – have, in the Coalition Agreement, in the Government Declaration, in statements by the Vice-Cancellor and in many other statements, prepared a programme for Austria that I am convinced of. I know we have to work very hard on it. It has not yet been done with the writing of the programme. It has not yet been done with the formulation of the projects. But I also said yesterday in the Government Declaration that we are now faced with a hard work of legislative implementation of our political projects. We've set the schedule. We've kept him up to now. We'll keep him in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not, at a time when, in particular, across Europe, we are in a situation where we are much better off in Austria than most other Europeans, yet not lean back, and just because we are looking better at it, in some way paralysing in these efforts. On the contrary! I say once again, as yesterday in the Government Declaration: All the ladies and gentlemen of the House are invited to support the government parties, the Federal Government, the individual members of the government. It's about a big job in the 20th. ==References== – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4905	Mr Haider has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4927	Mr President. I would ask you to interrupt the meeting and convene a presidential conference. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: He must explain that!]] I do not have to give this to the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4965	I interrupt the meeting and ask the clubmen to meet me briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4992	We will continue the session. I can tell you that during President Neisser's Bureau, a alleged incident was committed here in the House and that it was envisaged to convene a presidential conference. But now we're going to do away with it. The session continues its usual course. The Minister of State Dr. Ditz has been reported to speak. I would ask you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5022	Mr President. High house! Austria has drawn up two budgets in just under two months, which demonstrate the economic and financial capacity of this Federal Government nationally and internationally. Instead of the forecast deficits for 1996 of 156 billion schilling, it will be around 90 billion schilling and in 1997 instead of 170 billion schilling about 70 billion. This means that 100 billion schillings will be saved, and that means that stability will be ensured in Austria. This also means that, after the countries have been integrated into the consolidation process, Austria's Maastricht criteria are fully fulfilled and that this is indicated in all European institutions. That means a stability advantage for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is the great error of you from the Freedom Party that you mean: Forget Maastricht! What we want is a living economy! – Without confidence in international financial markets, there is no living economy, there is no positive economic development. It is therefore so essential and important that this confidence is secured in Austria and that it is recognised internationally. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It fills me personally with a certain joy that, where Mr. Haider believes chaos, the representatives of the International Monetary Fund say: Order and stability! – This is important and essential for this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In just under two months, the Austrian economic and financial policy has succeeded in bringing a new and, as I think, viable basis – with three key points that are being fulfilled. First: Nationally, the ability to act is regained. After these budgets have been decided, we can set up incentives, start employment plans and, at a later stage, reduce taxes again. Second point: The Triple-A is secured by this policy. Third point: The international stability, which is recognised, the performance that has already been quoted several times today, means in the final effect that we can keep interest rates low, that Austria's economic location becomes more attractive, and that we have every opportunity, if we are still going home, to make sure that the forecast unemployment rate does not occur. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another essential point, which I believe needs to be raised in the context of this government debate, is the question of structural reforms. I have the impression that the opposition under structural reform seems to understand solutions and savings that no one notices hurting, but that it brings a huge volume. I say quite honestly: There is no such thing as politics. It is an illusionism to want to make such a policy. If that is your aim, I admit that this is not achievable. On the other hand – and that is essential to me – was immediately in the newspapers: What the Federal Government has done here is an emergency programme, but not a proper reform programme. – I honestly say that saving 100 billion schillings is not easy. In this government, a large number of reform measures have been decided in the course of the budget creation, which, it seems to me, will also have a positive effect over the next few years and ensure that in Austria, above all, the generation agreement will be safeguarded. It is not right that for the first time the generation contract was threatened, but, on the contrary, the generation contract is secured by an ambitious social programme, with which one tries to push up without social hardships, with an eye, but also with consequence the early retirement age in the public service, in the ASVG area, generally in the commercial field and thus ensure that youth also has opportunities in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If a person claims it makes sense to save 10,000 or 11 000 posts without critically checking the tasks, then he is mistaken. To achieve this saving objective means to achieve a slender state means to speed up procedures, i.e. administrative simplification. That is exactly what will be implemented and enforced. In the field of teachers, I believe, the essential approach is to strengthen autonomy. At last, the school supervisors must also understand that they have managerial functions, that they must use the money that is quite richly flowing effectively. If that happens, we can reach an educational offensive with even less money. I believe that it is necessary in the labour market to achieve more fairness and at the same time to combat misdevelopments. But where things are exploited, where black work is initiated, needs to be better controlled, a bar has to be pushed forward. – In this respect too, I believe, fundamental reforms are appropriate. If they are carried out, we should be able to reduce structural unemployment in this country and not even raise youth unemployment. In the case of the spas, self retention also means a controlling instrument, just as I believe that family aid, linked to the success of the study, will have a little impact on study planning. I do not want to be studied in Austria and there are no jobs at the end. I was afraid that it was simply said: If the public service saves, then there is youth unemployment. – I think we need to change our education system in such a way that people in the private economy find their way. We have planned privatisations in a wide range of areas. We have taken away the most serious weaknesses in the tax area – let me say this too briefly. There have been some weaknesses, but the loss report, Mr Haider, continues, it has not been deleted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In total, Austria has maintained the really positive tax rates. I am convinced that Austria's economic location remains attractive even under this tax-change law. [[Abg. Haigermoser: stupidly says something quite different!]] I tell you, many of the tax exemptions – you should take a closer look at this, many of these tax exemptions have lost their sense and therefore need to be changed. [[Calls and calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] In my own field - I am already coming to the conclusion - two general principles, namely liberalisation and qualification, are in the coming years, and I believe that both are mutually conditional. I do not think it is possible to say: no more trade regulations, to make everything freely accessible. Then there is no dual training, then there is no quality either. – On the other hand, we must see that quality also needs competition, because only in such a way that we can prove ourselves in the markets. Finally, energy policy. Here with the energy control a signal has been set, a signal towards efficiency, towards economy, towards ecology. On the whole, I believe that the new Federal Government has found a reform policy which I believe will provide a good foundation for the next few years for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5103	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maderthaner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5124	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into my presentation, I may make a comment, even if Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is not present now, but I believe that this must be done because it is related to the incident that has just been experienced. [[Abg. Wabl: She's listening!]] It was certainly not all right that there had been misconceptions by some colleagues of the political groups when they entered the speaker's desk. I would also like to apologize for this. But they may have been just a response to Mrs Petrovic's comments yesterday when she asked from this speaker's desk for the demonstration of youth on the street. In doing so, she should know where it is going to be when people are being heated up and sent to the street. Just look over the borders into the former Yugoslavia! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the right way to carry out conflicts on the road, because there is a very quick triggering of something that you may no longer have in mind. [[Abg. Scheibner: What does the Farmers' Federation say about this?]] This reaction, this incident here in this House, is also a consequence of such a call. I would like to point this out quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: At the next farm demo we will look at this! That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The studying youth is not given the opportunity to have a good academic education. It will also be able to afford it in the future, as has been said, because the study is still free of charge. But we must do something about the increase in long-term students, ladies and gentlemen! We cannot become the people of long-term students and early pensioners. We will not master the future with this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to do this for those high-performance students, so that not others who don't take it so seriously will move them in place, and possibly even exam dates. This is my basic attitude, and this new declaration of government will also help to correct the course, and that is a welcome one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is there for a course correction?]] High house! Our country, I can say, once again has a broad government base, which is borne by the majority of the Austrian population due to the National Council elections of December. That's clear. It is very positive that the declaration of government, which, of course, must be criticized by the opposition, is also there, a real change of course and long-needed structural measures. I am pleased that much has been committed to what economic representation has called for for for years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What, for example?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, now, Mr Haigermoser, where all the population groups are being demanded victims, can be very successful in polemizing and different groups of people can be played out against each other. With the envy complex, of course, we can easily go to election. [[Abg. Wabl: You know exactly how it is!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the elections are over. We have to go to work – this call goes to everyone – because the population expects it from us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore appeal to you, to the opposition parties, to resist the temptations of cheap polemics, and I also ask you to have in mind the future of our country and the people who live here. Everyone is asked to take part in the implementation of what is set out, because this will become the more difficult way, and everyone will have to take part in it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And you should also consider: To consolidate, not only do those – I say this quite clearly – who have taken and written bold steps in intensive, nightly negotiations to urgently needed corrections, but all responsible politicians are called for implementation. All have to make their contribution, including those who now strike or demonstrate. Ladies and gentlemen! It is all called upon to participate in the design of the future of our country. In future economic policy, if it is to be successful, it is primarily about rehabilitating the budget by reducing expenditure – that is, saving health instead of capping taxes – and secondly about keeping our country as an economic location more attractive. This requires an active economic policy and similar conditions of competition abroad, especially in the countries of the European Union. I am convinced that – and I say this very clearly here – that after this steel bath – let me say so quietly – budget renewal will be able to maintain the competitiveness that we need permanently to provide work and to ensure more socially weak. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The seriousness of the situation requires us and the new Federal Government to act quickly – in the interests of Austria. This task is not exactly facilitated by the recent economic forecasts, so courage to reform and prepare consensual solutions is a command of the hour. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore also important and very positive that structural change and savings in public services be achieved. The implementation of the long-term administrative reform and the streamlining of administrative procedures would certainly reduce the number of planning posts needed and thus contribute to consolidation. The first steps have also been taken to raise the actual retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, this is urgently necessary, because 25 years ago every second pension was entered the normal retirement age. Now, of course, the proportion of early pensions increased to 80 percent by 1994 In view of this development we have to act, we have to take steps. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Of course" isn't that!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What about the additional wage costs?]] – The additional wage costs are of course also affected positively. Ladies and gentlemen! For a labour market policy that promotes employment, as well as makes it difficult or prevents undeclared work and Push, there are also approaches to be implemented here. For the acceleration of privatisations... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Is not much in the government statement!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This speech has not written the stupid!]] Yeah, it's good if you read this when you deal with it, so to speak, in detail. I'll save myself the details. There are also concrete approaches to speeding up privatisations and disseminations from the administration. It is precisely this money, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to use to advance an offensive research and technology policy in order to promote the economy in its development in order to make Austria's economic location even more attractive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There will also be a reorientation in enterprise promotion. The promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, should take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the EU's support programmes, and the necessary co-financing resources must also be made available, which is an essential task. Within the framework of the priority actions – which has already been implemented today – the funding of the foundation is essential, for example, the savings of foundation or other activities that further support the creation of a company. Ladies and gentlemen! The commitment to export promotion is very important to me; this has already been clearly carried out by the Vice-Cancellor. It is important to use the growing markets even more than it may have happened so far. It is also gratifying, ladies and gentlemen, that we can see - and above all support for small and medium-sized enterprises - that especially small and medium-sized enterprises can also be found in far-away exporting countries. They also receive special attention from the Chambers of Commerce. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is a lot of work to do, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure the international competitiveness of the Austrian economy in the future. [[Abg. Haigermoser: For example? What do these concrete examples look like?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the state must free the medium-sized economy from unnecessary burdens. We are constantly talking about it and are also taking steps step by step, but in the future it will be necessary to take even more concrete steps, such as efficient and practical management and concentration of approvals, plant permits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] It will come to that, and you can work on it, which is not a question at all. They're called to do this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The state, and this is clearly evident from this government programme, will create economic, better rules. The working world, ladies and gentlemen, of course also has to change, keyword: New opportunities for workers and employers by flexibilising working time. There will certainly be more concrete discussions here, and they will of course also be held. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the careful observation of additional wage costs, our particular interest in the flexibility of working time must apply. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about a reduction, Mr President?]] We also need to ensure that work is not too expensive. We must do everything we can to promote production, but it is even more important to promote the new products, because just promoting production often leads to the rationalisation of jobs, because too much capital is put into production development. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have good conditions, but we also have them. High house! Let us deal seriously and objectively with the topics of the future. Let us also try to implement what is stated in this statement of Government. They're all invited. Let us refrain from taking decisions and let us at least acknowledge the good will of working together and seriously to create work and thus to secure the social network. Any further oversupply of the state would, if we had allowed the development to continue, inevitably drive us into the spiral of money depreciation, which is known to hit the small savers, the pensioners, the beneficiaries of low incomes and more socially weak. We must try together to do the best for the future of our country, for a competitive economy, according to the guiding principle: The well-being of society depends on the health of businesses. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5372	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). But he's not in the meeting room. That is how I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Dr. Frischenschlager.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The Federal Chancellor was apparently easily disappointed that the jubilation of this declaration of government was limited by the opposition, and I can understand it somehow. However, I must add: If we are skeptical, it is not because we want to call from home everything bad or down, what the government says, but because we have to find that this great coalition is suffering from a lack of credibility. I must say to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is here in the representative of the Federal Chancellor: We have heard everything or at least much of what you announce in this declaration of government since 1987. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not everything!]] Mr Khol, the credibility of course does not increase precisely when a leading representative of these coalition parties, namely the clubman of the ÖVP, also literally says that the reforms have been started in time – you have said that literally! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] You even let yourself get caught up in talking about rehabilitating according to the convergence criteria. So that really can't be the point. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Between 1987 and 1992 certainly the case!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Golden words!]] Golden words, but they're so unbelievable, because your vice chancellor, Dr. In the last autumn, in September, the European Union has spoken of the threat of a state emergency. – After eight years of great coalition, on 22. September, Mr Khol, does the Vice-Cancellor speak of a threatening state emergency?- Oh, my God! But even worse is the not present old State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and the current Minister of Economic Affairs who has managed it, recently in the election campaign... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You only deal with the past, not with the future! No concept!]] If you praise the past, then you have to deal with it, but I am already coming to the present – be calm! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Dear colleague Khol! Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz meant last autumn – in a television show, millions of Austrians! – he doesn’t want to borrow a third swindle budget. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Good man!]] He's been talking about his "third swindle budget." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the vice chancellor!]] Even worse: The second highest representative... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nothing of what you say is true! Everything's wrong in the details!]] Mr. Khol! A leading representative of a coalition government that has been in power for nine years, namely, the vice-president – I correct – says that there have been three swindle budgets. That is a strong piece, and that is why the credibility of this great coalition is not great in its willingness to reform as far as its effectiveness is concerned. You'll have to take note of that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us now look at the structural reforms already carried out by Mr Khol. There are a number of very basic years, if not decades of problems in this Republic, which this great coalition has promised to solve as a reconstruction partnership. But it seems that those who should implement these structural reforms are also those who are the cause of the real problems of this state. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at this in the public service: The public service charges the federal budget with well over 200 billion schilling. Why this high load, why this disproportionate increase in recent years? Simple: Those who have had the say in this area, namely the ÖVP and its ÖAAB, they and their FCG comrades, are responsible for the fact that no administrative reform has taken place in this country for decades. Especially the ÖVP has consumed one minister after another, down from Neisser, in the government. Concepts were created, but, dear Pepi Höchtl, it was your staff representatives who "njet!" Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Höchtl]] That's reality. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Haven't the Sigi Dohr and the entire colleagueship behaved responsibly?]] Now you may have found yourself making a virtue out of distress. Because Maastricht has actually put the thumb screws on, you have at least raised your budget cuts. – That’s something, you’re supposed to say the few positive ones as well. But have you made an administrative staff structural reform in this context? - Zero! But I can also explain why: For example, one of the biggest maltreatments is that the young officials earn a dirt in Austria, but the older with far above-average incomes go home and then retire. – I grant them this, but it is a structural lack that young officials who are still training themselves, who are at the start of the family, still deserve a dirt. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That's why we make this parallel income curve!]] Now I'm coming to my colleague Dohr, dear friend. I am not surprised at the fact that the structural reform you have proposed in the pension system has been prevented by the construction of a calculation period. And I also know why: because the bosses of the ÖAAB and the official representatives of the FCG – I say it once politely – are older gentlemen and do not want to. It just doesn't play that kind of thing there – that's the reason! Pick up, give the younger officials a little more and save those who have relatively good incomes through the biennial system; they take away a biterl. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This would be a structural reform which would be fairer, more social, motivating young officials, and, at the end of the day, possibly even lead to a savings. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: This shows again that you are not ready to read a coalition agreement! I'm sorry about something that just doesn't have the foundation!]] Next area: A pity, colleague Khol – and I turn to the ÖVP again – is the entire hospital area. A pitiful area! You know very well that the total burden on the federal government and countries is well over 200 billion schilling. The federal contributions, Mrs. Minister, are 80 billion schillings, they have increased disproportionately by around 10 percent annually. Is a hospital reform included in this government statement, which Mr Khol considers to be achieved? - Zero! Vague statements – after almost a great coalition of decades! There you should have been there, with the heads of state who are the cause of nothing going on in this area – decade for decade! And I would like to ask the Federal Minister to continue with all vehemence to push for these hospital reforms, even though the countries are boneless. It is necessary because we cannot afford this wild growth! That is one of the very essential points. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I have full understanding for you, Mrs Federal Minister, if this is called Krammer's patience. [[a magazine showing]] Countries lie to the citizens. There is something true about it, and I trust it, even if federalism is one of the holy cows with us. The cause of the miscarriage of the hospital and the huge drains in this area are the countries, namely, those that are not based on materially justified country egoisms – that is the reality! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the third major area: Social policy. There you have – also said that – made reductions with some kind of lawn mower mentality, but in turn you have focussed on a structural reform. Here you would have to consider the wealth and income situation of the citizens in all social transfers and take them to the level of state support. This is a good thing for those who have received something and are now being taken away, but for those who have thus secured social conditions in the future. Our model, the transfer model of the Liberal Forum, would have three advantages. It would be fairer, since those who already have something are not yet able to do so. Those who have little, get more. Nevertheless, according to our model, a savings in billions would have been possible. I have heard several times today from the government bank an invitation that went in the direction: Where are the opposition proposals? But you may want to cooperate constructively. Of course, we are ready, but something is essential, namely the willingness to talk, even if something is still changeable. That is why I have great concerns about this great coalition, especially in this new form. They return to all the things that have been sent, with a point and an addition, which is the result of the debate on the non-coalition area. There are still some nebulous things where Parliament is being planted, such as monument protection and so on, where one proclaims the coalition-free space. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mrs. Dr. Schmidt has massively criticized the coalition-free space!]] – From a special point of view, Mr Vice-Chancellor! I have to say that there must be a willingness to draw consequences from a discussion. If your willingness is there, then there will be willingness in this Parliament, of course also from the opposition groups. What we want is a more lively and therefore a decisive Parliament. That is why, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I invite you: Take up the draft, the proposal of the Liberal Forum on social transfers! You think he's wrong. Let's just talk about it, but before it's decided. That would be my wish. We could actually take you to the floor. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One point seems to me to be very important from the point of view of democracy, namely that this great coalition, with the so-called structural laws, wants to operate in turn with the culprit of the two-thirds majority. In this situation, even the President of the Constitutional Court has warned against the fact that an accumulation of such constitutional provisions is at the end of the day unconstitutional. I would like to warn the great coalition, which is now again – unfortunately, I say – in the possession of the two-thirds majority, of this, of the principles... – The majority can also be unconstitutional, you know, Mr Khol, as a constitutional judge quite precisely, and I would just like to point out that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] . This detachment of the Constitutional Provisions, only to disable the Constitutional Court from its legislative control, must be rejected in all constitutional provisions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That would be the direction!]] The last important point for democracy policy in the Government Declaration: They announce an ORF reform, the conversion of the ORF into a stock company. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Here we are!]] It is quite possible to debate this. But against something, Mr Khol, we will be bitterly resisting what you are planning: namely, that in the Supervisory Board the powers of government and the ORF de facto will be handed over to the powerful in this country, if there are only two more representatives of the Federal Government, the chancellors and vice-channers, as well as nine paladines of the princes. We will oppose this very decisive resistance, because that would be the conversion of the ORF into a task institute of the powerful in this country. The ORF is very important for democracy policy. Now there is at least a formal plurality in the board of trustees, members are representatives of art up to representatives of the political parties represented in Parliament. At least formally, I would like to say that there is plurality. It is similar in the hearing and visionary representation. They are now planning the composition of the determining body, the Supervisory Board, government and state representatives, i.e. ÖVP and SPÖ. - It won't be played! We will apply all the instruments of legal resistance if you access the most powerful media institution in this country. This would be a loss of democracy, plurality, public and objectivity that we will not accept. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This great coalition has announced a lot, it has in mind some of the things I hope will happen. In any event, I hope that at least what Mr Khol has said, namely that structural reforms will take place, will actually occur. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5675	Mrs Mag. Ederer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5691	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Like many Austrians, I am also relieved that there is a common stable government again. It was not easy to form this government because there have been two very enormous requirements: On the one hand, the requirement to consolidate the budget and, on the other, the creation of or maintenance of jobs. In fiscal consolidation, it has now been a matter of seeing that the burden is justly distributed, that is, those who can afford it contribute more to the savings package than those who earn less. I think we have done this very well with perhaps a few small edges. However, fiscal consolidation often leads to the problem of saving the risk of unemployment or the difficulties of employment. Now it is about saying that we want to save, we want to consolidate the budget, because it also makes sense that we have a functioning state, but at the same time we do not want to lose sight of the objective of employment policy, we want to continue to secure and create jobs. This coalition agreement shows that this has also been successful in some important areas. It shows, on the one hand, that one has opted for an export offensive to promote precisely those jobs in the industry that are necessary for the added value of this country. However, it is also decided to invest in infrastructure, because these are perhaps not important today and perhaps tomorrow, but in five years they would be missing, we would not be doing them today. It is not indifferent for a company whether Austria has good roads, a good railway network, good telephone and computer networks. A functioning infrastructure is a prerequisite to ultimately have location quality. The Federal Government has decided to do so, and I believe that this is an important condition for maintaining and even promoting jobs in Austria in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third area, which I think is also very important, is that a developed industrial country must always be very, very far ahead in order to be truly competitive. The decision to invest in research and development means long-term job security in industry, and this is also an important measure. But I would also like to stress – and this is justifiably the coalition agreement – that the greatest capital we have in our country is the people. I therefore think relatively little of Mr Dr. Haider, who says: If we reduce labour costs, we will be competitive again. What does that mean? We cannot compete with the low wages of other countries, but it is primarily about training our employees so well to carry out productions at such a high level that, despite high wages, there is absolute competitiveness in the end. How does this coalition agreement address this very question of training? – On the one hand, by providing for lifelong learning. We need to think about it. In the future, we cannot see this rigid separation: First training, occupational activity, retirement, but it will be necessary to acquire additional qualifications over and over again in order to ultimately eliminate the risk of unemployment in old age. If you look at those who are unemployed in this country today, it turns out that older workers are becoming more unemployed and remain unemployed for longer, the less trained they are, the less qualified they are. That is to say, it is also a good investment for the future when people acquire new skills over and over again, so that they do not become unemployed as quickly as they do in old age. - That's the one area. The second area is that in politics one cannot be satisfied with simply giving up if someone becomes unemployed, then unemployment benefit is paid out, which I believe is a very passive basic setting. It is rather a question of saying that someone is unemployed, but everything must be done to bring him back into the labour market as soon as possible. There is a demand for active labour market policies where there are measures so that people can be easily integrated into the labour market from the start. The third point is the question of childcare facilities. I agree that child care is not a matter for women, but, of course, a matter of man and woman, because both are responsible for their children. In reality, however, it is still such that women's work is restricted because there are too few childcare facilities. We must see that there is both a city-country gap and too little childcare facilities. Mr Silhavy said yesterday: Women are mainly between 30 and 40 unemployed. Why? – Because they find employment very difficult after the birth of children, after the karenz period. It is for us politicians to finally create a sufficient number of childcare facilities, not only those in which children need to be cared for in the morning or to be picked up at lunch and brought back in the afternoon, but also that we really offer all day care that gives mothers and fathers the opportunity to be active if they want to, and thus also to create a certain equality. I believe that the coalition agreement can be described as a compromise between two completely different parties, but I believe that this compromise is a good one. Now I can imagine that this is disturbing an opposition. I try to think briefly, for example, into the situation of the FPÖ. It was true that a declaration of government was issued in 1987, 1990, 1995 and 1996. And every time the boss – so he wants to be called, he doesn't want to be called a leader – the biggest opposition party has joined the speaker's desk and said: This government won't do it for long, there will be huge problems, it won't succeed, it's just a question of time until it comes to another constellation. – He meant he was going to come to the government, so to speak. The fact is, there is first of all this federal government, and there is also it, among other things, because, above all, social democracy has won during the last elections. In contrast, all opposition parties have lost in the last elections. That is to say, there was a clear vote by the Austrian people for this coalition, not least, I believe, because we have said what we stand for, what we are going to do after the elections, and have not documented – just as a large opposition party has done – that the top candidate has not lied to. That's, I think, a little bit. First of all, it is my education that it is a matter of course that one should not lie. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: Not with him!]] The second is that no one has believed it, otherwise you would not have lost two mandates during the last elections. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Andreas Mölzer, a friend of old days, says today in "NEWS" that Haider is a popular tribunal and wants to be loved by people. And how it must hurt a person who wants to be loved if he loses two mandates as a leader candidate for a party! [[Abg. Scheibner: There you have good experiences in the last ten years!]] This must cause deep pain if he still loses it in his home country, because he lost 0.8 percent in Carinthia. That is to say, as a top candidate, he has obviously failed to achieve, and he is not loved to that extent as it would be necessary to get something positive for himself. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I also think I can tell you why you lost in the last elections. – Because, ultimately, the Austrian population does not really believe that you represent their interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the Austrian people know very well how to estimate you how to deal with you. I would like to show you an example of today. Dr. Haider goes out and says: This coalition agreement is a scandal, there are fewer losses, the chances of small and medium-sized enterprises being reduced. He does not say that the small and medium-sized enterprises are probably not so important to him. Do you know who's important to him? – Dr. Haider and his ability to continue writing losses. That's exactly the point that's important to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And feel that, I think, the people. They also feel that they are kept fooling by you over and over again. You already know that exactly that loss write-off possibility, the abolition of which to a certain extent Mr. Dr. Haider has so lamented today, has led to the fact that a clubman of this Republic with a basic assets of around 165 million de facto has not paid any taxes in recent years. – We do not want that, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! That's unfair, we don't want it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A lex alone for a clubman! Very far-sighted policy!]] No, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, that's not a lex for or against a clubman. It is about the fact that only well-earners can take advantage of this loss depreciation option at all. If I earn 10,000 S or 15 000 S a month, I can't do that at all, because then it doesn't count, Mrs. Partik-Pablé. It's only for creditors. And you want to keep that up. You said that too. You have also said here about the speaker's desk that there are no longer any loss writing models. You want to prefer the well-deserved ones because precisely because your personal interests are reflected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mentil keeps a 1,000-s-s-s-s-shine up.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are the 1 000 S?]] [[Abg. Blünegger, Member of the European Parliament! You promised to leave your pension! - Nothing has happened!]] I hope you calm down again. Why Annoyed If I say so, are you the representatives of the minister? We promised there was no intervention in existing pensions, we held that. Unlike you, we keep what we promise. That's why people choose us and not you, that's the difference between us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Give us the Joseph back! He asked at least three questions!]] Mr. Dr. Haider has come out and has said very well here who, after all, does not have economic experience and economic competence. He tried to document, so to speak, that he had absolute economic competence. It's not for me to talk about how you lead your party or how you do it. But I would throw out a party president and secretary-general who is not even able to request a re-election of 30 million Schilling. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is not only inability, it is also to the detriment of your party. You do not even manage to make a very normal request, so your economic competence is. That is why I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that there is this federal government. It guarantees social security in our country, stability and an active international role. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5856	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5877	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To the Social Affairs Division: It is, I believe, indisputable for all here that Austria has an outstandingly high social standard in international comparison. Even after the current financial security reforms, Austria will continue to have a good quality social standard in international comparison. You can then follow this up in the debate on the budget accompanying laws, which you have in the meantime, I believe, already. We have improved our social system even further in recent years with a number of social offensives, for example, with the billing of child rearing times, the introduction of the care allowance, with massive increases in minimum pensions – many measures that have significantly further improved our system. Internationally worse economic development also makes it necessary for us to ensure fiscal consolidation, even in the social field, with sensible, socially logical and socially balanced reforms for the future. We discussed these reforms with all those involved – with the trade unions, with the chambers, with the economy, with the disabled associations, with youth organisations – and also adopted proposals. Of course, it is not possible to implement a budget consolidation of around 100 billion schillings in such a way that no one is affected by the fact that no one feels anything. But we have designed these reforms in such a way that, as has been said, they are socially balanced and understandable that those who earn more also contribute more to the consolidation of the budget and that the social weaknesses are not affected by it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These were the elements that were crucial to us in this consolidation in the area of the social system. If it is said here that there are no structural reforms, I must say: That is absolutely incorrect. What you may lack from the liberals is the whirlwind, because due to these many conversations that have existed, because of the high understanding of the population groups, it is so that these measures – even if they are felt by some, even for many – are accepted. One of the main questions was: How will we proceed in the future in the field of employment policy? For good employment is one of the most important pillars not only for the existence of the individual, but for our entire social system. It was therefore very crucial for us that, despite budget consolidation in the field of active labour market policy, no cuts be made, on the contrary: In addition to the flow of ESF funds from Brussels – from the European Social Fund – we will have much more resources available in the field of active labour market policy than before in today and next year compared with 1995. [[Abg. Blünegger: Numbers we want to know!]] Figures: 5 billion plus 1.5 billion from the European Social Fund, which is 6.5 billion compared to 5 billion last year; in other words, some 1.5 billion more will flow through the labour market service, partly across other areas. Active labour market policy is geared towards doing something for those who may or may be affected by unemployment. However, it is not only crucial that these funds be used but also that the economy be able to secure employment. And there is a need – and this will happen – for the export offensive to be strengthened, that research is also more available to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is necessary that we develop the infrastructure in a timely manner with a view to the future. At the end of the previous year, funds had already been decided in billions – for example, 12 billions for the expansion of railway infrastructure as well as funds for the development and closure of motorway gaps. For telecommunications, additional billions will flow that serve the economy of the future and create jobs today, especially in the construction industry. It is therefore extremely important that we pay particular attention to employment policy – even in times of budget consolidation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of labour market promotion, we will in particular ensure that low youth unemployment will not continue to rise in the future. We have by far the lowest youth unemployment in Europe in Austria, and this must remain the case in the future. Other priorities are specific measures for women – including support in the area of childcare – and for older people. At 2 p.m. this morning, we decided on measures to improve the opportunities for older people to stay in employment. And together with the labour market service, we have prepared a special action to help those people who have been unemployed for a long time. There are currently around 29 000 people in Austria who have been providing emergency assistance since 1993 and longer. We want to help them by supporting them so that they can return to the economy. But we also want to help them if this is not the case immediately. For this there are special actions together with the economy that are already running. Through non-profit employment programmes, they can also earn money and find a return to work – a measure to help these people, which will be implemented more strongly in the next and next year. I spoke before about avoiding youth unemployment. A measure in this respect is also that we have not raised the statutory retirement age of 55 and 60 years for long periods of insurance, because raising this age – 60 for men, 55 for women – would have resulted in a massive increase in the current situation that young people do not find employment. However, with the reforms in the field of pension insurance, we have added importance to the fact that insurance periods – the number of months of insurance, the number of months of contributions – are more taken into account, not abruptly, but in a reasonable transitional period. Until 2001, the long insurance period necessary for persons who retire at 55 and 60 years of age will be increased from 35 years of insurance to 37,5 years of insurance: a manageable, disponable period with protection for each year. I think that is reasonable. At the same time, we have found that 35 real years of contribution are sufficient in the future for a woman with 55 and a man with 60 years of age to retire. We have recently made particular reference to the fact that rehabilitation has to go before retirement in the human interest and sense. We want to raise the actual retirement age by protecting people from being pushed out of work early. We want to focus more on health care and workers' protection, and that will happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé has doubted that pensions will continue to be safe in the future. – Ladies and gentlemen! I have explained this so often and can also prove it with numbers. After all, productivity is much more crucial, take only this one point into account. In the ASVG area, the grant of the Federal Government in 1970 was around 23 percent. Because we have always implemented reforms in time, it was no longer 23 percent like 1970 in the previous year, but only about 12 percent. The system is secure, even for the boys! I am willing to come to your club if you invite me – this is not enough time – and explain to you the safety of this system for today and for the future slowly, for thought. I'd like to explain this to you in your club. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Blünegger: We will return to it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We take along experts who know each other!]] It is certainly also crucial to take further harmonisation steps in the field of pensions, with a view to ensuring the equivalent harmonisation of the different systems for the future, especially for those who are entering new working life. We have therefore made a number of structural changes with these reforms, which will ensure financial viability for the future. Training, lifelong learning will be further essential issues, because we want to ensure the economic location of Austria with the help of the previous quality – with the quality of the labour force, with the quality of Austrian infrastructure – but not with wage and social dumping. This is not in question for us. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In labour law, we need to focus more on new forms of work. It is therefore necessary to include atypical forms of employment, service-like contracts, which are often declared work contracts, in the interests of those concerned, but also in the interests of the entire risk community, because there must be no loopholes to the detriment of the individual and the Community. This is particularly important at a time when we are confronted with teleworking and many other forms of work that we could not otherwise involve in social security. I do not understand, therefore, the criticism which always comes out of the ranks of the liberals. Of course, it is necessary in the interests of workers and the economy to offer more design opportunities in the field of working time, both parts and partnership. In this respect negotiations are already under way, and I hope that we will be able to conclude them soon. In the sense of a good social partnership, an agreement must be reached for both parts. In the Working Time Act, we want to offer much greater scope for conclusion in collective agreements and business agreements. I hope that before the summer we will come to a common arrangement which offers both parts, entrepreneurs and workers, better design opportunities in the field of working time. On this occasion, I would like to thank once again all the interlocutors who have really been required in recent weeks. As I said, The need for consolidation is there, but without anyone feeling anything, consolidation is not possible. We have, however, tried to find a socially balanced and socially understandable package – and that, as I believe, also enforced. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: "Aim" is not enough!]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! In the field of the disabled, too, we are trying at the operational level, in the area of housing and in all other areas to ensure an adequate life for the disabled in Austria. The care allowance was introduced, which represents an essential step in this direction. There is no second state in Europe which can have such an excellent system of disabled people. And even the current reforms do not change the quality of this system. Only corrections are made to ensure that this system will continue in the future, for example with regard to double benefits: If someone is in the hospital, the care allowance will not be paid in the future. I think that's logical. It was also mentioned here that the pocket money is reduced. This point is repeatedly criticized. However, the care allowance is not intended to mean, as Mr. Dr. Haider said, that the person concerned can buy something to wear. This is a capital misunderstanding! This requires income security, and we have also significantly increased the minimum income by increasing the compensatory allowance rates in recent years. And in the pension area, the low pensions with the single payment of 2 000 and 3 000 s will be significantly increased in the next year. Finally, in the interests of social security, I would like to invite you to work together and constructively during this period. Our goal is: We want to offer every woman and every man the opportunity to work in line with him, while at the same time providing social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5992	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. Speaking time: 3 minutes. The business management process is known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6017	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Central Secretary Ederer claimed that the clubman of the Freeman, Dr. Haider, de facto does not pay any taxes. I'm actually correcting: This statement is incorrect. Mr Haider has already shown several times that he, both as an entrepreneur and as a clubman, has paid all taxes imposed on him by the law on time and in full. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Yes, but how much?]] Mrs Central Secretary, Mr Ederer, also claimed that the Secretary-General of the Liberals had failed to apply for the refund of the election costs. – Mrs Colleague! You may have missed the fact that the Freedom Party has turned into a movement. There are no more Secretary-Generals, so the Secretary-General cannot fail either. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is no longer an actual correction! That's word-claury!]] That is an actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6057	In fact, please correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6072	That was, I think, actually corrected. – It is also clear that this money does not benefit the taxpayer, but that the other parties have claimed these resources for themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6102	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6124	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Yesterday, if you want to, the day of the government was here. The Government Declaration took place here. For over one and a half hours, the Federal Chancellor has presented this declaration of government. Today, I think, is the day of Parliament, the day of Members. I therefore think it is a Parliament's disdain that today's ministers speak out of the government bank and do not allow for a detailed debate between the Members - between the representatives of the opposition parties and those of the government parties - and therefore there can be no interplay of ideas. It is clear to us that, of course, it is only because this debate is broadcast live on television. It is not a question of presenting to us your ideas, which you have already informed us in recent weeks, at least ten times. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What are you talking about now, Mrs. Colleague?]] You do it, too, to get on television at the right time – what you accused of the opposition yesterday. I consider this to be a disregard for parliamentarianism and for the Members who are here today who want to deal with the Federal Chancellor's declaration of government. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] The fact that you have no interest by the ÖVP and SPÖ in speaking here is understandable to me. But that as a Member of Parliament you do not have so much self-esteem to really want to speak here too, that is really incomprehensible to me. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You also want answers to your questions!]] – Yes, that is your understanding of parliamentarianism. You've already noticed what happened to the coalition-free space. But on the matter itself: The Federal Chancellor addressed it here yesterday, and of course there's a lot to it: We are in one of the most difficult phases of the Second Republic. Not only does the approaching end of this millennium make it psychologically clear that some of our problems are only now, especially the globalisation of world trade has overall developed a dynamic that we have probably underestimated all. Capitalism has repeatedly made some leaps over the last decades. However, the development of the GATT Treaties, the development of the internal market in Europe, has resulted in a dynamic that has so far been overpowered by many governments - and the Austrian Government - because they have not been prepared for all the consequences of this free competition, this enormous liberalisation shift. And that this alleged consolidation programme of the Federal Government is based on undistinct consent in the Austrian population, could and can convince everyone today. 40 000 students have demonstrated and partly still demonstrate here in Vienna. In total, more than 50,000 students are on the streets in Austria today who are opposed to this load package for students or teachers, assistants and professors. We discussed it again and again yesterday in the debate: Especially in such break-up times, not in teaching, not in science, not investing in the students in themselves and in training, this is a serious mistake and will have many negative consequences for this country in a few decades. Indeed, the globalisation of the economy is immediate and permanent in Austria too. The unemployment rate is rising – and it will continue to rise. Large Austrian companies, such as Austrian Airlines, the Austrian airline, have long outsourced wage-intensive areas. The accounting of AUA is made in India, online. All over the world, large companies are stocking their wage-intensive areas especially in the South-East Asian region, where there is a lot of, much cheaper labour, where there is child labour, and where work is also done under incredible ecological conditions. These questions must be asked much more offensively than they have been before. The Greens have been very intensive in this field of the new economy and have repeatedly pointed out that in a global market we must try to comply with the principle of the sustainable economy, that we must succeed in achieving that, because of this globalized world trade, there is no further enormous environmental dumping, an enormous social dumping. When it comes to the economy, human rights suddenly no longer play a role, we are just eager to trade with all these countries, regardless of the fact that in these countries – whether in China or in other South-East Asian countries – people are being suppressed and tortured. We have therefore formulated a request to ask the Federal Government to put this legislative period under the heading "Sustainable Economics": [[Quoted print version removed]] If we look at this coalition agreement and the Government Declaration of the Federal Chancellor in detail, we must say that it is very, very open in the area of environmental policy, which is so important for us, and it is basically a step backwards. It is more to be done today than repair policy. And if the Federal Chancellor said yesterday that the environment creates jobs, I can only agree with that. This is exactly what has been said in a Green publication for many years, where we have repeatedly shown that investment in reasonable projects, in environmental projects, of course jobs are created, and that this is not only ecological, but above all economic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! But what you have offered us here is not much more than a kind of eco-blabla, a series of declarations of intent, which I hear for the third time in a declaration of government – but the concrete projects go in a completely different direction. They talk about it – and it is even in your own coalition agreement – that sustainable economies and the pursuit of a healthy environment are correct and reasonable. But on the fact that we have no cost-effectiveness at all in the field of transport, you simply look away. If you order something from a shipping catalogue of an Austrian company today, it does not come from a nearby community, but it is because transport costs nothing, from Singapore, Vietnam or from anywhere. All this is possible because businesses are outsourced their storage costs to those countries in which it costs almost nothing, because transport costs can naturally be neglected as long as energy is so cheap. The key to this problem, which we have been trying to make tasty for so many years, would, of course, be the ecologicalisation of the tax system and the consistent taxation of resources while at the same time tax relief of labour force. You don't do it. What you're doing – and that's what you're doing only for budgetary reasons because you need money for your budget – is increasing the taxation of some energy sources. You'll see if this has any steering effects at all. It is a scandal that alternative energy producers are not exempted from the tax. It's not understandable. You have always said that you are for a nuclear-free Central Europe. – Suddenly, any type of taxation is the same. Whether the electricity comes from nuclear power plants or from wind power plants, it is taxed immediately. But you know that there is another model. The Greens have already tabled a legislative proposal in the last legislative period, where it can be fully understood that a division is of course possible to promote alternative energy sources and thus a sustainable economy and a modern energy policy. Transport. Building for many years You streets through Austria. Now you have suddenly come to the so-called vignette under the supposed title "Cost Truth". - That's a humbug. I am not of the opinion of the ÖAMTC and the driver club who say that the drivers are already the milk cows of the nation. In my opinion, they are not at all. The costs caused by car traffic are so huge that, I say this here, even if it is unpopular, it is necessary to take into account many other cost factors. It would be necessary to have a real cost-effectiveness in this area, i.e. that the one who rides a lot also pays more. So there should be a kilometre-dependent calculation. In this respect, there are already models, mature systems – but you are introducing something that is already available in other countries, but is therefore not better, namely a vignette that ultimately only serves to obtain money. However, this money is not used for environmental protection, as you claim, but to close the road network to continue building motorways. And that's really absurd. On the one hand, how can you talk about environmental protection and, on the other, about introducing a motorway vignette and using the money that is being used to build motorways? – Where are the concrete projects for the relocation of traffic from road to rail, for the promotion and promotion of secondary railways, for a modern ÖBB? – In these ÖBB there would be very much to reform. I can't imagine a so-called future minister doing all of this. He's got art, he's got science, he's got the ÖBB. Maybe we'll hear poetry lessons in the railway cars now. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Why not, Mrs. Colleague?]] Yeah, well, I'd be very much for it, but I think it might be more urgent to solve other problems. – The vast area of telecommunications is also part of this department. And what happens exactly at the time when it is said that more environmental protection is being discussed and the Federal Chancellor has invited us to more cooperation? – This is where you or the Federation of Citizens who have rightly opposed an illegal project, namely against the construction of Ennstrasse. Farmers, students, many young and older people living there have demonstrated against a project that was illegal. There have been no legal decisions, and yet one has built there. [[Abg. Kröll: Three-quarters of the population are in favour, Mrs. Colleague!]] Yes, but I hope that the rule of law will also apply to you, and you will have to take note, even if you have the two-thirds majority, that there will have to be effective decisions so that You can build something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] People have demonstrated there, and what happens now? - The state has sued them. I quote from a newspaper article: End road: Farmers are supposed to pay two million schillings from their private cash. Each 200 290.70 s will pay ten Innstal farmers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Is the rule of law subdivided between Upper Austria and Styria?]] But not only should they pay, but the financial procuratorship also sued three students present at the demonstration on 126 180.56 S. Is this the new environmental policy you are promoting here? Is that the offer for cooperation? – In the case of a project for which there have been no legal decisions, where illegal construction has been built – it is a black construction, so to speak – citizens, farmers – have also demonstrated an ÖVP parish, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Lambach don't you mean?]] This council has also been sued for this sum. So this cannot be the new environmental policy! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You have an disturbed relationship with the rule of law!]] No, you have an disturbed relationship with the rule of law! I am in favour of compliance with the rule of law, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Self-help is not allowed in this state!]] Mr Khol! We want decisions to be respected, and there has been no legal notice for this project – but it has been built. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is the authority's task and not the demonstrator!]] You can't stand that the rule of law is being observed, especially you as a constitutional judge! That really surprises me. People have protected their habitat there, set themselves against an illegal project, and now they are supposed to pay more than 200 000 s per person. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It started with self-help!]] If you look at the Government Convention, you will notice that many areas of environmental policy, which were still included in the last declaration of government, are missing, for example, an environmental liability law, one of the most important areas in a modern environmental policy, a law that aims to anchor the burden of proof in our legal order. - There's no word in there anymore. Similarly, there is no more talk of a uniform system law that would be necessary to finally arrange this fragmented environmental matter, in which no one in Austria knows about – no one knows where to negotiate – what to do. None of it's inside. As far as waste law is concerned, there is a need for innovation in this area, and of course the "wonderful" words find themselves to avoid waste. But more and more waste is going to happen in Austria, especially by continuing this policy. For example, this year the glass bottle is offered. So we're going to be 1. There are only more plastic bottles everywhere in January 1997. In all these areas, concrete action should be taken, but none of it is contained in the Government Declaration. It is disappointing, especially today, on a day when the "Year of National Parks" was proclaimed downwards by the Federal Government and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, that much is in danger, especially in nature conservation in this country. We are by far not a pioneer country in this respect, as you always say, but rather we are a final light, and especially in environmental policy we will become more and more. I would recommend that you read the current OECD reports, as you can see: Austria has long lost every claim to be seen as progressive in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6347	The motion for a resolution just read is properly tabled, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. I'll give him the word. You've got 3 minutes. Please proceed in accordance with business rules.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6371	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ederer claimed that Dr. Haider does not pay any taxes in de facto. - I'm correcting it. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That's already correct! That's already gone!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Is it not interesting for you? I'm correcting that I...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6404	It is not yet clear to me how it is corrected. – Mr Dr. Haider is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6419	I'm correcting that that's not true. I quote from an economic fidelity report of a pledged economic fidelity that I paid over 4 million Schilling taxes to the Republic of Austria between 1986 and 1993. From 1986 to 1993: 2.1 million, 967,000 S taxes, income from my uncle, who is the user, from 1986 to 1993: 4.6 million schilling, income tax: 1.2 million schilling. [[Abg. Achs: But have you come back!]] I hope that the final lie propaganda of those who constantly claim untrue, namely that Haider does not pay any taxes, will be discouraged.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6471	Please read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6492	Mr President. I am trying to make sure that not all 15 members of the FPÖ who are still in the Chamber are now correcting the same thing again. This is not the meaning of a real correction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6546	You can have the assurance that I will proceed in accordance with the rules of business. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6576	Mr President. My colleagues on the government bank! High house! Dear Mrs Langthaler! We should have read two different OECD reports, because the OECD report, which is also available to the House, the first to be prepared by the OECD on the environment for Austria, gives an excellent witness to Austria and presents Austria in its summary as an environmental model country. So there should be a second report here, apparently an exclusive text for you, Mrs Langthaler. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is absolutely right that environmental policy will be changing in the next few years. We will have to get away from the end-of-pipe environmental protection work. We will have to use much more economic instruments in environmental policy. An instrument that has been widely appreciated in recent days, the eco-auditing of companies, has taken great advantage of in Austria. Five outstanding companies are already audited and have obtained an environmental certificate. And the development of Clean Production Centers, of centres for information on purer environmental technologies – of course included in the government programme – will bring us a step further forward. But now on the statement of the Federal Chancellor, environmental protection creates jobs: Of course, we have made sure that, at times when the residues are already particularly large, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we urgently need jobs, in the areas of urban water management, that is, the sewer and water construction required throughout Austria, but also in the field of old- load renovation, two special tranches are provided by one billion schilling each, which will provide a total of some 3,000 additional jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Even if in another economic and other budgetary environment I would have imagined and wished to ecologize the tax system in the sense of genuine income neutrality and thus a reduction in additional labour costs, I consider it remarkable that with a clear taxation of fossil energy – on the one hand, by taxation of mineral oils to 1. In May of last year and now with an energy levy, at least take one step in the right direction, one step that will be underlined by the fact that from next year on, Austria's countries will not be able to provide less than 800 million schillings per year for the implementation of climate change measures. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Langthaler, as an environmental spokesperson of the Greens, draws attention here today to the fact that the "Year of National Parks" has been proclaimed among the outrages of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I believe that we can together look forward to seeing that on 26 March we will be able to do so. This year, as a Millennium project, the Donauen National Park can open late, but still. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl keeps a newspaper with the title "SOS Ennstal" up to date.]] Mr Wabl! If you point out here with "SOS Ennstal" that there is one thing and there the other, I wonder how you want to share the rule of law. What is not the rule of law in the End Valley, is then the rule of law in Upper Austria? You are not familiar with the rule of law in general. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Pühringer approves of himself!]] Before I say a few words to the House on my new job as a family and youth policy, I would like to point out to Mrs Langthaler that, of course, the principle of sustainable development is enshrined in the government programme and that there are only a few countries in the world who have already implemented the principle of sustainable development as consistently as we in Austria. But now on family and youth policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If today students are on the streets and have demonstrated women a few weeks ago, I believe it was also important that family associations and family representatives have shown that the families are also affected by the savings package that this House will decide over the next few weeks. They are concerned about this, but I do not think that it has succeeded in averting the enormous burden on the families, which at least have not been excluded in the debate process, for example, when I think that family aid for students as a whole has been discussed, or when I think that our coalition negotiators have only been able to provide 600 million schillings for the year 1997 for childcare facilities throughout Austria, on the one hand, and on the other, to build a separate special budget of 20 000 s for families with three children and more in these difficult times. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] At this point, however, I also strongly warn against making family policy a social policy – that would be wrong – and, on the other hand, to want to see a high degree of financial policy, and I believe that in the next few years we need to pay at least as much attention to the need for a central point of family policy to enable a woman to be a mother and a housewife as well as a professional job as a career. I believe that in the next few years, it should be easier for families in Austria to meet their children's wishes. We know that young people in Austria want more children today than they actually do because of material and other framework conditions. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Grabner.]] I would like to conclude by saying that, without having to continue to enter this subject in a programmed manner, for reasons of time, because it is also Parliament's day and not the government's day in this debate: For me, at least evenly, the current discrepancy between the social recognition of a woman who is working and working, and a woman who, under quotation marks, is "only" housewife and mother. There has been a wrong development in this area in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Over the past few years, discrimination has just been brought against the "only" housewife and mother, under quotation marks. It's against that! . Thank you, Mr President, and you, Mr President, for your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6659	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Josef Höchtl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6681	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! The Coalition Government, in the form of yesterday's Declaration of Government, has offered a catalogue of measures containing solutions and responses to present challenges and to ensure a positive future for the country and the people of the various social groups. [[Abg. Wabl: How is this with the lying victory of the SPÖ? - How did you mean that?]] That is to say, this government, after very intense negotiations, has begun to be a government of real security of the future – I think that needs to be stressed! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This offer of solutions to undoubtedly existing challenges should today be used by all members who speak to each other in order to discuss it, but also by bringing in, for example, the opposition parties solutions, proposals, ideas – quite controversial nature – which can also be opposed to the challenges. If, after a few hours of discussion, I allow the individual contributions of the opposition speakers to happen, I must say: This offer has not been used. [[Abg. Wabl: Invented or Invented?]] Mr Wabl! I'm sure you've listened, too, so I'm asking you: What have the opposition speakers actually done? – While the need for saving has been expressed, at the same time every single measure proposed by the government has been considered inappropriate, as impossible, to be perceived and presented as too taxing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot see, on the one hand, the need to save, because it is the biggest challenge of the last decades, but on the other hand I can condemn every single measure proposed to resolve the problems. That's unscrupulous! That's irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that the ORF has passed the debate so far, because it is not only us here in this House, which we constantly discuss with each other, who can give us an idea of the quality of the proposals, but also because the spectators can make a judgment. Discussion means that a proposal has to be presented in a different way and that the quality of the proposals has to be considered. The challenges we are facing at present should be addressed in a serious and credible way, only then should policy be considered responsible. We, the two parties that form the coalition government, want to meet this responsibility. People in this country deserve it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A proposal was made by Mr Freshenschlager. Mr Frischenschlager pointed out that the Liberal Forum proposed a different model of family support. But he did not add the effects of this model. In the discussion, however, one should also deposit that. We looked at this model. However, the model of the Liberal Forum would not have been to promote a family but to remove 7 billion schilling from the family support. That's the truth! And against such considerations, against such proposals we must defend ourselves in the interests of the families – we have done so too! Mr President, I have only ten minutes available for my speech and I would like to stick to it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt and Oillinger.]] What are the great challenges we see? – I would like to give a brief answer. First: All economic researchers and all those who deal with the real budgetary situation are of the opinion that we must achieve a recovery of our budget and also achieve it. What would be the alternative? – This has not yet been so well received into the discussion. The alternative would be nothing more than to achieve an ever-increasing increase in debt through a deficit spiral, which would have to pay an ever-increasing quantity of interest and interest rates and would therefore have fewer and less financial resources available for productive measures. That, in turn, would endanger competitiveness, which would put our jobs at risk again, and this would endanger the central achievement that we have achieved together in this country, namely prosperity. This government is not taking action to endanger prosperity but to stabilise prosperity and to further expand it where necessary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second challenge: We could not achieve the consolidation programme, we would not recognize the risks of labour market collapse in good time and take offensive measures against it. We have not simply accepted those forecasts that have been presented by economic researchers in the last few days, but have to ensure that they do not become reality through active counter-taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] For us as a People's Party – I believe that this applies to both government parties – every unemployed person is too much unemployed. One must see the human tragedy, the family effects, the social and economic consequences of the phenomenon of unemployment; and it is undoubtedly no longer a single phenomenon. That is why we have been determined not only to propose distribution forms for existing work, but also, of course, to see an essential aspect in the creation of new jobs, in the re-establishment of enterprises. As a federal observer of the ÖAAB, I say: We as employees' representatives have the greatest interest in creating as many new small and medium-sized enterprises as possible, because every small and medium-sized enterprise that is set up creates four to five additional jobs in the first three to five years. A partnership can stabilize this labour market, secure existing jobs and create new ones. Our policy should contribute to this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We want to bring free savings or start-up savings. We want to launch an export offensive. We want to achieve for older workers, as the Social Minister said, a model of the bonus malus that we decided yesterday. If it does not prove to be so efficient, we should consider further measures. In politics, everything can never be perfect, but at least one has to start trying to counter existing challenges. We also need to force the possibility of part-time work. I believe that in this area we need a great deal of food, and there is also a great demand, in particular of two groups: Many young women who want to combine work and family prefer part-time work, but also older ones who are increasingly moving forward in thinking about the sharing of time and income, saying that they do not need the increase in income, but want to enjoy more leisure time. In addition to this second challenge, the third is undoubtedly family. I have briefly pointed out that many of what Minister Bartenstein mentioned here could only be achieved and kept by a tough struggle, by a tough struggle. One thing is clear: For us as the Austrian People's Party, the family as a central core cell of our society is the prerequisite for a functioning society. We will do everything we can to make working families possible for a functioning society in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion. In the future, policy needs to be seen much more as networking. Economic policy, financial policy, family policy, social policy, education policy are not to be seen individually, but of course any policy action taken in one area has consequences for the other. If we see this networking in our policy in implementation and carry it out crediblely, then I am convinced that, on the basis of the government programme presented yesterday, good future-proof years for the Austrian population will be again in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6797	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! My immediate predecessor makes it a little too easy: Fixing shortcomings is still a matter for the government. It is the opposition's task to show wrong developments – to get them out of the world, the government cannot take away! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But show alternatives!]] Whoever wants to do the opposite, proceeds to the old funny recipe to demand from the government bank the resignation of the opposition. – You can’t do it as easily as you can in the debate on a declaration of government, ladies and gentlemen! But one is right. We haven't discussed the already legendary savings package, but already a consolidation package. That is only true, for there has long been no talk of saving in this context. What does saving mean? – Saving means that I limit myself to my needs and consumption. In the case of the Republic, this means that it itself is also taking back in expenditure in its administration, in all that it commits itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what does the Federal Government do? – The Federal Government achieves more revenue from everything and everyone, more taxes, higher taxes, higher taxes, and it gives much less to those who need it – the families, the disabled and others. There can be no talk of saving! On the one hand, people are taken into the bag, takes out more taxes and taxes, and on the other On the other hand, those who need it bitterly are less given out of the tax pot. That's not saving, that's wasting in another way and on another way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Republic does not save – it saves only those to whom it should actually fall under the arms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höchtl.]] In fact, there are only burdens. But who could have really believed that something was changing for the better? . Yesterday, as a result of the declaration of government, I looked at the government bank closely: no new face! No new unconsumed politician, no new unconsumed politician! Everyone's already been a day! Everyone blamed what led to the preferred new elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All have been responsible for the fact that these new elections and the formation of this government have at all had to be held. No one has expected him to be able to wait with something new. They all come back with the warmed old lime ports, so no one can expect you to do better! Either you didn't know it better before or you didn't have the power to enforce it, or you didn't want to enforce it. You won't be able to do it in the future either. I fear it, but would be glad if I had been wrong, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There can be no change in the fact that a minister of education or a minister of science of moderate success can be entrusted with the transport sector at once. To do this, you can only say: If Scholten is now also responsible for the Bundesbahnen, this is according to the old motto: Artists help artists! – You can imagine what comes out of it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look into the Declaration of Government, into this line of words, you can see what has actually not been done: There is still no real privatisation, not even approaches to it. After all, privatization does not mean that one continues to scrape the family silver. Privatization means that it is also possible to deal with tasks that private institutions, private individuals can handle and does not allow them to be done by the state, the countries, the municipalities. What does that look like in practice? – Only one example has been taken out: The state of Lower Austria installs transport companies with dozens of new buses to deal with the transport of officials to the new capital of St. Pölten, in which they will soon work, and also the return to their home cities. Instead of going here and, if there is already the new capital, if you move with the officials there to leave these lines to the already difficult private transport operators, you will set up your own transport companies. Pröll seems to want to have it as it is in Vienna and thus expands deficits for the future. This is not a privatization, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a step back! This goes according to the old motto: The Austrian looks happily and optimistically into the past. – This is also the case with privatisation according to the style of the government declaration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will also be done in accordance with the principle of foundry. You still don't find that you only need the one that really needs it – but it's neat – but you go according to the motto: All people are the same! The Minister, the Director-General, the honourable Member and any similarly structured person are also given the same "delivery payments" of family aid and the same as those who really need it bitterly, so that for those who need it, nothing or nothing remains. Where are we going, ladies and gentlemen, to be a better approach? – I ask you that! But interesting in such things – in declarations of government like this – is less and less what stands inside than what does not stand inside. We're here at the courthouse once. In this 47-page paper, justice is a series of empty phrases. Justice Minister Michalek was really not well treated in the editorial of this extensive convolut. There is no word in it about the necessary new ways in criminal law to be taken in relation to the long-term differentiation in the treatment of offenders. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the one hand, there are the "poors" who land in front of the judge, who then – like any entrepreneur who goes down with 1 million schillings of liabilities – receive a imprisonment for negligent Krida, without anyone knowing what it should be for, and the heavy calibers on the other hand, to which one is inadvertent and powerless and who can be found equally on the street. The injured person makes his ad and is glad that he can bring the person behind the castle and bars – he believes – but the next day he meets the perpetrator again on the street and is completely amazed and desperate in the rule of law. However, there are no approaches to this programme. I do not think that the Minister is important to this, that he will probably not have been asked in the editorial of this paper. No word on the fact that it is a matter of speeding up the procedures, especially in civil law matters, that all the savings, when it comes to the need to keep house, will not be possible if one does not ensure that, despite all the constitutional limits set there, there may only be appointed judges and not those who for some reason are not occupied for weeks, months or years and may not be able to be occupied after the legal situation. We have to change the legal situation. There is no word in these 47 pages about renting and living. Please, if you are following what is happening in the housing market, from the point of view of young people, a roof over the head-seeking people, and then you are experiencing a thick paper from which anointed reading is read and about which, above all, the government is discussing for hours, but in which there is no word in it about how young people should be allowed to come to an apartment without spending themselves and their whole family restlessly, then you can only say: The same persons are responsible for the re-election, but they have not learned anything about it either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because how is the situation today? – If today a family has children, then one of the two partners needs to, most of the time it is the woman, stay at home with the children at the latest at the second child – and already the income is halved. But if they had to buy an apartment – on the free market or in whatever form always – and have brought in the last reserves until the grandmother's savings, they are no longer able to acquire a child. For then one of the two partners would have to stay at home and they would no longer be able to raise the amounts they need each month to receive the apartment. Then one forgets crocodile tears about it – as we have now read it in the newspapers – that the number of births in Austria continues to decline from one year to the next, but does not sink a bit but properly, in a way that is simply devastating for our whole folk substance, for the so-called generation contract, for everything we expect from the next generation. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing in this statement of government in this respect. I hear lip confessions from one speaker from the government party after another: The family is for us the pillar on which we build everything, it should not be too short. – At the same time make But they make life impossible for the family and also make it difficult for her to fight children and continue to shape life. This is hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I cannot resist the impression – perhaps I already hear the grass growing – that, as we have to see from one year to the other, the number of births is falling and falling, but there are circles that are looking at this development with a certain pleasure, which is not at all annoyed at the fact that in the future there will simply be fewer Austrians than it is at present. We liberals, however, are on the point of view: We have to ensure that we remain the gentlemen in our own house, that we remain the women in our own house and that we enable our young fellow citizens to establish families, to have children, to feed them properly and to provide them with a roof over their heads. – However, I don’t read about that in the Government Declaration! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I don't read a word about the groups on 47 pages of patient paper. There are six recognised groups in Austria, which are partly supported by far too small amounts under the People's Group Act. I am thinking, for example, of the Roma and Sinti who do not have to start at zero, but at zero, when it comes to structural design at the political and cultural level et cetera. Is the statement of Government referring only to it with one word? Is it perhaps even possible to give them more than before? - No! 47 pages Government statement, and not a single poor word about the ethnic groups. Ladies and gentlemen! But this is not only about the domestic groups, it is also not about the Old Austrian German tongues who live in the neighbouring countries. 47 pages of patient government statement paper – and with no word it is mentioned that there is South Tyrol and that Austria has a protective function for our countrymen beyond the Brenner border. [[Abg. May. Steindl: (Keeping the Declaration of Government high) There it is!]] You may have the party agreement. We are discussing the Government Declaration and not the Party Convention, you can do so in the Party Secretariat. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I have it right in memory – and it is the sixth or seventh government statement that I experience here – this is the first in which Austria’s protective power is not mentioned at all in relation to the groups of the Altösterreicher Germany beyond the borders. These are developments that we cannot find ourselves with, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What about the Austrians abroad? Whenever elections are in front of the door, they are tried, because they represent a few thousand voices, to mobilize for their own party landscape. Much too complicated is the right to vote for those who live abroad. Do I read in the Government Declaration only one word about the Austrians abroad? – No, not one, ladies and gentlemen! I do not think we can make any of these mistakes with the model student behaviour that some speaker has raised here today from the government bank or from among the government parties. We are not concerned with a model approach towards Brussels. We are concerned about the need to enable our own citizens to have a decent income to live a decent life, even if they are not able to do so without support. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Older people, disabled people, families with children – we need to take care of them – but not to make a particularly good figure towards Maastricht, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6972	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6996	Mr President. High Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor yesterday pointed out in the statement of Government that Europe is about creating a foreign and security policy which is actually common and is not based solely on the interests of some of the Member States of the European Union. He pointed out that security and stability in Europe are far beyond the EU's structures and that the Federal Government will actively develop cooperation in all security forums in order to contribute to the creation of a common area of peace and security in our continent. Europe as a common area of peace and security, a Europe in which every state will be safe from its neighbours in the future, a Europe aimed at treating and resolving equally urgent those insecurity factors that exist beyond the military sphere. I think it is worth it for our country, it is worth it for Austria and it is worth it for politics in Austria to stand up for such a Europe. It is worth considering what conditions are needed within and between the states of Europe. It is worth thinking how we can create a permanent peace situation on this continent. I know this is always devalued as an idealistic, illusionary project. I know that some say very often that it is about dreams of a distant future, and it is in vain labor of love to engage in something so unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen! We know from many areas of science that it is a serious methodological error if one does not start attempts simply because one considers their success to be uncertain or unlikely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be fatal if future generations could blame us for the fact that a European peace order was also unrealistic because it was considered unrealistic and therefore did not take any serious steps towards its realization. Perhaps we, ladies and gentlemen, are also a little victim of our experience and history with our courage in this area of security policy. In December last year, German conflict researcher Professor Czempiel drew attention to this issue in an article in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" (Frankfurter Allgemeine). He wrote: "The European system always provoked conflict, if not war. The 40th cold war led to the Second World War, the aggressiveness of the National Socialist Germany, the Alliance System, which joined the First World War. In turn, the Bismarck Alliance system and its successors were in front of him. Even the order of the Congress in Vienna was not a system of peace in the modern sense, but was realized by balance of power, which was usually based on defence alliances." This tradition, according to Professor Czempiel, returned in 1946 and facilitated the effortless transition from the United Nations' alternative attempt to the familiar forms of organization of the military alliances. "NATO and Warsaw Pact were uneven in their internal character. Their potentials were asymmetrical and uneven. But they were identical in reflecting a centuries-old tradition of balance policy: If you want peace, prepare the war. This sentence is as wrong, closes Professor Czempiel, as he is old, but brings to mind the familiar conceptualisation of European policy on order." Ladies and gentlemen! Austria must follow the guidelines of a global, comprehensive security and peace policy. Our main strategic objective in the EU is not simply to preserve national independence and security, but rather to build a pan-European security and peace order. Neutrality is also to be understood as a specific contribution to the creation of an integrated system of cooperative or collective security. I am glad that the Federal Government has come to know itself in its statement on an active foreign policy. An active foreign policy is one of the factors that can contribute significantly to crisis and war prevention. Ladies and gentlemen! On a second point: With regard to the planned Federal Constitutional Act on Cooperation and Solidarity on the posting of units abroad, immediately after the results of the coalition negotiations were announced variously – here in the House of the Greens – the impression was given to the public that this Federal Constitutional Act would in any way relativize the neutrality of Austria. [[Abg. Wabl: Right!]] This is not the same as in the clear text – please wait, my colleague. – the Convention. [[Abg. Wabl: Why?]] First of all, it refers to the full participation of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, as it already results from the Maastricht Treaty, and how it is – in the meantime undisputedly – compatible with neutrality. In addition, it is explicitly stressed that this participation takes place within the framework of Austria's obligations under international law. Firstly, it is necessary to understand the neutrality which has become a voluntary duty to the State community by notifying the other countries, namely neutrality, but – this must be stressed – not only neutrality, for Austria has classified itself in its dynamic foreign policy into an entire interweaving of security-related and peace-enhancing obligations under international law. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Foreign Minister is different!]] This includes, in particular, the collective security system within the UN, in which all states – including neutral ones – are called upon to act together against peacebreakers. As you all know, Austria has already participated in such peace efforts. This will continue to be done in the future, but in particular in the service of the European Union's security policy, in so far as it operates in the framework of collective peacekeeping. The new Federal Constitutional Act on the posting of units abroad also states that units may only be sent abroad for precisely defined purposes: in addition to training and training purposes, only for peacekeeping measures, at the request of an international organisation or the OSCE, as well as humanitarian and disaster aid measures. Participation in peacekeeping operations will be possible only on the UN's decision, except for Austria's neutrality. In addition, until such contracts create a European system of collective security. It will be new, ladies and gentlemen, that, under the condition of the UN Decision, Austrian units can also be directly subject to organizations of the European Union or those responsible organisations. In the existing structure of the WEU or NATO, however, this Federal Constitutional Act will not allow Austria to assume obligations of membership of these organisations prohibited by the Neutrality Act – even within the framework of mere foreign operations. A further constitutional change would be necessary for any membership of Austria of the WEU, which I believe should not be available until the European Union has actually developed an instrument of collective security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one knows today, ladies and gentlemen, how such a system will finally develop. However, I believe that it is worth Austria's efforts to do so. I also believe that we should not be able to change neutrality until we know that the system we exchange for it offers the same or similar security as neutrality.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7081	The next speaker is Mr Haselsteiner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Federal Chancellor! I would like to give you a proposal of confidence and I would like to say that I believe that You've put on paper here in your government statement, which is meant by you. Unfortunately, however, I must point out some contradictions and, at least I hope, these should give a little cause for thought, how one can represent it, in one way or another, and how one must see it. You say in your introduction that winners are Austria, and Austria has once again received a predictable and stable federal government that rests on a good foundation. I hope this for us and for our country – at a time that will take us all in the next few years. It would be important to have such a government, even if we do not belong to it and observe and criticise the work in the opposition role. Federal Chancellor! But for now, you have to deal with a psychological phenomenon: In the course of the election campaign and in the course of this government, there has been great uncertainty about our country. You can read it in objectively measurable data. They know the development of consumer behaviour, you know the refusal of people to spend their money instead of saving. This is a sign of fear, and that is measurable. You know the investment behaviour of domestic and foreign investors, and you all read the daily newspapers and know the serious economic problems of renowned companies in this country. And these are no more individual cases, but that is to be found daily. Since today Mr Vice-Chanzler and also Mr Khol have quoted a liberal international and highly appreciated newspaper, I agree with the fairness of Dr. Khol, a rather conservative paper, namely the "New Zurich newspaper", which has a lot of importance internationally. Here's... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dr. Hazelsteiner! This is the newspaper of the Swiss "voluntary"! This is a party newspaper and not an independent newspaper!]] Mr Khol! If you've already read it, I'll give it to you, but let me bring the quote: "Economic constraints and a newly found will to re-establish together are the basis for the renovation of state finances and for modest reforms in the public service. This has been reflected in coalition agreements several times in the so far nine years of the great coalition under Vranitzky, but never so seriously addressed that the results would have been worth seeing." And then it's in the "New Zurich Newspaper": "What in this case?" Federal Chancellor! In your government statement, you said – I quote you –: "So we do not consciously find ourselves with the sentence that the German Gunter Hofmann wrote recently: “Today, the conditions dictate the laws.” – I mean, you have a Sisyphus work ahead of you to make it credible. I do believe that you do not want to deal with it, but the appearance, the measures that those people who are demonstrating today feel do not show this, the people who suffer from it do not see it, but those who believe – yes, they have to have this impression – that very well the conditions dictate the laws, for otherwise these savings measures, this savings package and other things would not be explained. There are no structural reforms, no visionary considerations, but they are the laws, the repair character, the emergency character, and are therefore dictated by the conditions and not presented here as a law visionary. Further quote from your Government Declaration on Employment Action: "We do not understand savings as a self-evident purpose, but as a necessary prerequisite for having room for movement to remain politically operational." Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Unfortunately, that is not the case! What you're doing here only gives you minimal extra room for movement. They have failed to follow a wise divination over the past nine years, which means: Save in time, you're in trouble. – They start in need of saving and then expect an additional political margin – and unfortunately that will not happen to God! We're all going to suffer. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They also say that, in addition to education policy, it is also your concern to take account of the stronger promotion of women. Some pages later you will say – and here I would like to congratulate you: the honesty of half, not the content –: "Supplement and suspension this savings measure" – says half the year of karenz – "and I don't discuss away that the changes in karenz money are primarily such..." and so on. For the first time, Federal Chancellor, you have admitted this. All your colleagues from the government parties – Mr Khol, Mr Kostelka, Mr Novotny and so on – have always said that the social policy objective, so to speak, of making the difference to more equality, was the cause of this pass. Today, Federal Chancellor, you admit for the first time – and this is really high on you – that it was the sheer need and that this is a pure saving measure that is being carried out on the back of women. So if you say, first of all, in your statement of Government, that you want to promote women, but then confess that you are unfortunately forced to put in place a saving measure in this area, I must point out this contradiction. – My colleague, Schaffenrath, will then address this particular problem of women and also the "under-protection law" discussed yesterday for older workers, of whom we believe we are convinced that this will have the opposite effect: Not the more than 50 years old will protect you, but you will endanger those who come near this age. Those who reach this age limit will be at risk; they will be exposed to psychological pressure, to an unimportant degree. Federal Chancellor! You cannot influence economic laws by such regulations! Federal Chancellor! They continued to say that the recognition of skilled workers in society, which has long been due, should finally be carried out. At the same time, you have all these attempts, a classless workforce – not: Employees, officials and workers – to create, always resists. You have not dared to attack this fundamental problem, to solve it. They mean: This is for the skilled workers. – I have to say: I'm sorry, but that's where you disagree. It would be a great wish of us if you were to devote yourself to this question, which also has to do with the privilege debate and which also has to deal with the reduction of privileges. Here in your government statement, this is a contradiction. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They also say: We will privatize, we will continue along this successful path of privatisation. . I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at least in the last two years, the results of the privatisations have been more than moderate and modest. They live on the fact that in recent years you have started a lot of success – I like to admit it and acknowledge it, but less to you than to those who are there and now largely independent of politics – and that these managers have succeeded in leading well-known Austrian industrial companies and achieving profits. This is a great achievement, and that is important for our country in this situation. But if you say in your government statement: We will be delegating and privatising where it makes sense, where it is beneficial for Austrian interests and, of course, especially for workers, then, please, I must ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler: What do you mean? You know that privatisation and dissemination can never be beneficial to the workers concerned, because it is one of the essential points that we have had these crux and these problems in the nationalized industry that protected areas have been created – Mr Koppler! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] You know! – which have been effectively deprived of economic principles and have therefore been burdened with billions of money. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They also said in your government statement: There is a very important reform measure in the work contracts, which is "not only because work contracts have often been misused to cover employment relations, but also because it is also acceptable" – this is very important now, ladies and gentlemen, and I agree – "that so-called atypical working conditions will be the typical employment conditions on the labour market of the next millennium". Federal Chancellor! You have correctly recognized how much is right in this analysis – but I do not understand your conclusion from it. I would still understand if you said that we cannot treat real service relations so differently compared to atypical service relations that there is, so to speak, an unwanted steering effect or excessive loads. However, your draft provides that: You wish to raise social security contributions for atypical works contracts to 35 times the maximum basis of assessment. I don't understand! This can only be called: They do not want these typical working conditions of the next millennium. As a Liberal, I must strongly oppose this: It is one of the very few opportunities where you pursue active labour market policies, where you can give young and dynamic people a chance to find employment and income outside the labour market that is now limited. That is why I would ask you to consider such points as they exist in the drafts and clearly contradict those of your own government statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a debate cannot pass without at least taking up the most important and, in my opinion, simply controversial opinions of some previous speakers. Mr Khol! Budget programmes do not need to be presented. It's not a merit. You can present one, two, three budgets. You can also present four programs, which is not important. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Budgets!]] You must vote, Mr Khol. I can remind you: Your last budgets and your last budget programmes have never voted! The deviations in the last budget amounted to billions. You, ladies and gentlemen, from the government groups, then swore to stone and leg that it was 102 billion and no longer. It's not long ago! But you exceeded them by at least 15 billion. That's 15 percent of the package you need to chain today. You have to take note of that! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Khol! They said it was a great merit not to raise the additional wage costs. We have almost the highest in Europe. It is not just a matter of increasing additional labour costs, but of reducing them in order to deal with the problems of the future! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mr Khol! The non-coalition area you want to sell to Austrian voters – you can't do that here in plenary, because we don't believe it anymore; we've read the coalition agreements – is not just a rudiment, I'd say: It is just a joke that you abuse this concept in this way, which is positive in itself! What you have agreed on in this respect has nothing to do with a coalition-free area, but these are just "rules of play" so that you do not have the other, Mr Khol! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Besenkammerl!]] Mr Khol, you say that you are concrete in the formulation of the objectives. – Yes, you are, but you are not concrete in formulating the ways. There is no point in reaching the goal, which is largely conflict-free. Mr Khol, we are dealing with the ways. – But don’t answer that. There would still be many things to say, but for reasons of time only one last thing, because it was particularly annoyed me. Mr Höchtl! You have clearly looked at the transfer model, but there are two interpretations. Either you didn't understand – or you don't want to understand. What you announced from here is not true. But I'd like to hand this over to you again in a private body. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: I understood it the same way! It's the way I described it here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government reminds me of a board of directors who had a great success following an exchange, namely a considerable supply of capital. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: 7 billion you wanted to take away the families!]] They have also received an supply of capital, in the form of voters' votes. Normally one should assume that now – equipped with this advance of confidence – a courageous step is taking place in the future, something that can be expected from the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7255	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7271	I am at the end of the sentence. Mr. Schüssel! It's not recognizable! You're hesitant! You're not visionary! They're not forward-looking! Ceterum censeo: this declaration of government is pro-prising, structural conservative, hostile to youth and economics. Thank you many times, Mr President, too.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7323	The speaking time has therefore finally expired. Mrs Gehrer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7347	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who read the Declaration of Government and the Coalition Convention with a positive attitude will be able to identify numerous measures, proposals and initiatives. I can of course imagine that it is difficult for the opposition to have such a positive attitude to do so. I can even imitate this; I myself was an opposition politician, and I therefore know that there is nothing good to be found when the government presents something. [[call at the Liberal Forum.]] However, I believe that in many areas many initiatives have been mentioned, which will then be implemented over the next four years. My previous speaker, Mr Hazelsteiner, said that there are no structural reforms. Mr Haselsteiner! A large number of structural reforms are proposed in all areas. I'll just give you an example. If in the school sector parents wish that students at the lower level of the AHS, be relieved in the primary school, if we remove a few hours and put it into the autonomy of the school to set priorities, determine for ourselves what hours one wants to delete, then this is a structural reform. And if this structural reform also saves costs, that is, I think, in times like this nothing unpleasant. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Haselsteiner! They have linked the promotion of women with family support further in the back of the Government Declaration. I think it is very likely that it will be a promotion of women when men are brought to partnership. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] I think it is very important to document the partnership, and I would like this partnership to be taken much more seriously in economic circles. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of education in particular, a number of new objectives will have to be pursued over the next four years. We need to implement real structural reforms, sound structural reforms, which will preserve the quality of Austrian education, but through which intelligent savings are possible. No one can explain to me that not every operation has to question its structures over and over again. This is important, that is necessary – and so must be the case in the field of education. Key objectives in the field of culture and education are: The identification of the necessary educational elements for initial training and the determination of what can be transferred to lifelong learning. We need to maintain the high level of education through the efficient use of existing resources. We need to make it possible to secure current and innovative development through new priorities. It cannot be – and not in the field of education – that more and more is being added. This does not stop the students, it does not stop the teachers, and it does not keep the budget. We really have to consider: What's old? What do we need? Where can we set new accents? We must reduce centralism and bureaucracy in the field of education, we must promote, above all, cultural identity and strengthen the growing cultural tradition of Austria in the European area, and we must achieve in the field of education that we see Europe as a future opportunity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You of course will say from the opposition again: They're really nice targets, but how do you want to do that? . I can tell you exactly what I can tell you, that I can give you some of the measures we have already taken, which we will implement: We're going to expand school autonomy. We will improve permeability. We will create the specialist mature so that there is a real opportunity for the apprentices, for those who attend a technical school. Further: We will continue to pursue internal school reform through the classification of curriculum into key areas and enlargement areas. In the future, key qualifications will need to become more involved in school. The new teaching and learning methods are already being implemented. We will optimize the opportunities for lifelong learning. Internationalisation in education is to be promoted by teaching in English, in French, for example, history in English, geography in French. This requires, of course, an advance period, a corresponding teacher education. We will also pay particular attention to the creativity and the musical focus at the schools. I am also concerned about the targeted cooperation with the European states, especially with the states of the former Eastern Bloc. These need our help in the field of education. The partial rights of schools are to be implemented and also extended to the National Library, to museums and to the Bundesdenkmalamt. The construction of the museums must be continued, with priority being the Albertina. The international exhibitions were continued this year. I call it "Der Traum von Glück – Historism in Europa", "The Embassy of Music – 1 000 Years of Music History". The "Museum Square" will be implemented, realized – it will be built – and I will also be concerned with strengthening the synergies between education, education and cultural institutions. [[Abg. Mother: But when?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These major challenges in the coming years, especially in the field of education and culture, can only be achieved through joint work, only through a co-operation and not by a judicial counterpart. For me, open cooperation with all school partners is very important: with teachers, teachers, parents, students. After all, teachers and teachers are those who shape the future of our country with their work. Under the leadership of the trade union, a broad discussion is currently taking place on a teacher's guide, at an annual work time. This discussion can be transparent about what teachers do, how much they engage in – far beyond the usual level – and what positive work they do. Ladies and gentlemen! Politics is work for society, for the community, for the people of our country. Education policy, cultural policy is work for the future of our country. I invite you all to this joint work!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7437	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7458	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject of our discussion, the Government Declaration, following the work agreement of the Government Parties, is a good piece of reform work as a basis for the government objectives of the next four years, backed by the spirit to secure the Austrian economic location with the reorganisation and consolidation of our state finances and thus provide an effective response to the labour market and job problems that are currently worrying us. The broad public's acceptance of these reform measures shows that it has succeeded in negotiating a very broad balance between these reform measures, and it is now a matter of implementing these objectives together in consistent work. I am pleased that there is this social balance in this breadth, because I could not help with the ideas of Mr Hazelsteiner, who unfortunately is now no longer in the hall of God, because of my personal appreciation. As a Democrat, I respect his very liberal attitude to solving economic and social problems, but I would like to call on him to realize that the broad majority of the Austrians do not consider such a liberality, but the success course of Austria has been characterised by an exemplary, internationally respected partnership over the past decades. It was therefore very gratifying that over the past few months the social partners have been able to make some contribution to this government agreement. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This does not seem to have gone away from the opposition either, because we have heard allegations in recent years of the more frequent than the social partners here that the social partners would have gone far too far and had an excessive impact on the situation in the House or in the government. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Wasn't that so?]] All the more so today, I was pleased that Clubob Mrs Petrovic had even given us the competence to solve the university problems that university problems had. As a convinced social partners, I say quite openly to you: I see this competence at the Minister of Science, and I am happy to leave it to him. We have a broad range of tasks in the areas of the social partners. When we devote ourselves to them and successfully deal with them, we are certainly serving this Republic in a similar way to in the past, and the government will certainly succeed in implementing effective reforms in those areas where the competences of the individual ministries are focused on solving the problem. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There have been interesting developments today; this has already occurred yesterday. I am surprised that in a large project with a total framework of 100 billion schilling, the opposition is almost stumbled from one detail problem to the other, and almost throughout – unlike traditional roles – it is constantly calling for more state, although from the political role played it would have to control the government and the government parties so that they do not carry out their government competence too much in an expansion of the state's tasks. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Bad belongs!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the Greens.]] Mr Haselsteiner was one of the few who took a different position here. I can't share it anyway. I've been thinking about what's hindering me. As a farmer's representative, I am particularly pleased that these reform measures have taken into account that, in the context of EU integration, which was also mentioned by the Federal Chancellor in the Government's statement, we have been forced to implement a profound system of reform of the Austrian agricultural policy, which is also directed towards more individual responsibility towards performance orientation, but which has been tied up with a support package for the accompanying and appropriate framework conditions, which will enable this system to be implemented over the next few years. The first year has shown that we are on the right track, and that is why it is also very welcome that this government agreement is characterised by the fact that, in the core area of agricultural policy, continuity is preserved in the Europe Agreement and we now want to continue to achieve these objectives, which we have set with integration. The key point of these framework conditions – also with considerable financial resources; we will certainly be discussing this in the next few weeks in the budgetary consultations in the committees and here in plenary – is the promotion of ecologically oriented agriculture in the so-called ÖPUL programme, which offers farmers incentives in an unprecedented way – in view of consumer expectations, the structural and topographic conditions of the Austrian production bases in agriculture and forestry, and also in close connection with the importance of the Austrian tourism industry – to go even more closely in terms of competition with other organised agriculture in the EU internal market and thus in terms of quality production and consumer expectations. Farmers have already taken a great part in the first year, above all expectations, and it has succeeded in preventing what skeptics for EU integration before the referendum and also until the last days – almost in a grudge propaganda – have feared: There has been no industrialization and chemicalization of agriculture. On the contrary: In the first year of EU integration and the EU internal market, the largest ecology programme in Austrian economic and environmental policy has been implemented. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Of course, we want to continue in the consistent implementation of these objectives. From the experience of the first year, of course, we can make a number of further developments together with the Minister of Agriculture. [[Abg. Aumayr: The genetic engineering!]] We have managed to implement the high administrative requirements of such a system change – admittedly with difficulties and with a great deal of effort – in a timely manner. For 1996, we want to make this even closer to the citizen, with even less bureaucracy, with greater involvement of the farmers concerned and indeed in the exercise of public responsibility more efficient. [[Abg. Aumayr: With genetic engineering!]] This is an ambitious goal, because we have already made a great deal of progress in international comparison in the first year. I am saying that it was not a simple task for us as a representative of interest to join in this objective, and I would invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in many areas, where, from your point of view, you may have problems with this government agreement from your political point of view, from your point of interest, you may also have to take responsibility for this small debate which is going through this debate today, and to go into constructive cooperation, namely, even if it is going beyond your own shadow. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Have you forgotten that we have taken part in the environmental programme with you? That's where you got your coalition partner, and that's where you failed the SPÖ! We voted with you!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Mr Reichhold! I am used to the fact that the FPÖ-Redners claim the sole claim to the opposition for themselves. I am aware that there was once a constructive cooperation between the liberals. I just hope that it will be similar in the next few days and that it was not just a one-day fly. I would like to say that here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Axle.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These four years ahead of us are certainly, like the four years behind us, marked by deep dynamic international changes. For example, I am thinking only of the development of the EU's common agricultural policy, of the measures to be taken after the European Intergovernmental Conference with a view to enlargement and institutional reform. Above all, the development of the World Trade Agreement will also give us some solution during this period of government, and we must therefore deal with major further reforms. I am pleased that what is necessary to ensure the future is clearly noticeable in this government agreement and in the Government Declaration and, basically, from the first to the last word. Future security needs courage to change, courage to shape – and this is the task that we will have to deal with together in the next four years. It is not surprising to me, but a further insight that is seamlessly based on the past that, unlike the government that wants to shape, the opposition in some words clearly expresses that it sees its task rather in preservation. That is why I am pleased that our government agreement has been borne by the spirit which has determined the Austrian People's Party policy in recent years: Those who want to preserve good must change a lot!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7599	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7620	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how long the honourable Member used Haider until the words "social symmetry" and "distribution justice" were so smooth from the lips as he used them today and yesterday. However, it is amazing that these words have so far been heard by a representative of the FPÖ, but not by the representatives of the government parties. [[Abg. Koppler: Yesterday!]] Social symmetry and distribution justice have no place in this coalition agreement, nor has there been any place in the government declaration! It just doesn't happen! This is not a matter for you that we are not actually discussing today how things are going upward, but how things are going down in this country. There are still wordings in this statement of government by the Federal Chancellor, in which it is said that the upturn will come. But we all know here in this house, the downturn is coming. We are already in the middle of it, at least in the workplace. This is the interesting thing that the issue of mass unemployment – and I am not sure to exaggerate here; Mass unemployment is what we have to expect in this country in the next few years – in the Government Declaration as little as the topic of poverty, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! It is amazing that an OECD report also notes for Austria: The rich are getting richer and poor are getting poorer and poorer. For Austria too, this report notes this. And then the "Sparverein" Federal Government comes and shrinks the poor through the consolidation package even more. But the issues of distribution justice, poverty do not play a role in the state's declaration. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties! They are not talking about the things that actually move people outside, which not only move the students outside, because it is about their last schillings, which the Federal Government also wants to arrive at, but many are moving, because it is really about poverty. What do you think about this issue? – unemployment is combated by the introduction of compulsory labour for long-term unemployed. In the criticism of this demand by the liberals, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, one year ago, you said that this is a division that reminds us of bad times, which reminds us of the Nazi era. – Now this is the common government concept! – It does not stand inside, but it may threaten us in the next few weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! You are not only a spar club, but you are a spar with special purpose: to fulfill FPÖ requirements. And this is the problem we have with you, ladies and gentlemen, that you – you could cut it off – fulfil a demand for FPÖ after another. The FPÖ does not notice, it still stirs up, but essentially one point after another is cut off from its savings package, one point after another from its foreign people’s desire is being fulfilled. The Federal Government is trying to do this. I have already mentioned compulsory work for long-term unemployed. The intensifications in the Foreign Employment Act also belong to the creation of jobs. That connects you both. Both of you say: We want to create 50,000 jobs, but no one says where and how and by what means. There are then nebulous formulations of red tape reduction and promotion of greater independence, but it is not at the same time said how 50 000 jobs are to be created in this way. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Yes!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Right on this way!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They accuse the opposition, they take care of the details and not the whole. That is what you have just said, Mr Schwarzböck. I'll tell you: If you look at the big picture, it will only become all the more terrifying in view of what we have to expect from the coalition parties in this country in the next few years. It is no fun to see how one federal government implements one point of the FPÖ concept after another and is not even willing to admit it and to speak openly about it that, in principle, in important political, social policy issues, it is only the handler or the water carrier of a FPÖ opposition, which in certain important areas tries to drive the government ahead. – Despite the results you have achieved during the elections. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of talk today – it was Mr Kostelka, who said so – that no change in the basic social consensus is linked to this federal government. We insist on the basic social consensus and want to continue to enforce it, he meant and then used very flowery formulations. I mean, not only because a coalition government implements FPÖ demands for point, but by changing its basic understanding of social consensus into very important, central questions, you demonstrate where you are going that you are going another way that you have perspectives that have nothing to do with the development of the social system, but have nothing to do with it at all. I can also illustrate this to you. In times like this, in which more and more unemployment arises and on the other hand we have a social security system, which is also person-oriented, based on personal funding, in times such as those in which we know that social security income is getting smaller and lower because of personal funding, except for the increase in contributions, so, in times like this, of course, we need to consider new foundations for the social system, especially for the social security system. In times like these, where there are still hundreds of thousands of people who, despite your reforms in the pension insurance sector, have to live their age without their own pension, it would be necessary to discuss a pension reform that actually allows everyone to age in dignity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In times like this, it would also be necessary to talk about it: What can we actually do to reduce the risk of poverty – no matter if it is just 500 000 people, as one study says, or if there are already 1.3 million vulnerable people in Austria – to limit these large and not small groups? What are we gonna do about it? Will it be enough for the federal government – as demonstrated in the Government Declaration – to gradually withdraw from social policy and to shoulder responsibility to the countries which, in turn, they give to the communities, which in the end they give to the individual families? Will that be enough? Will this be the perspective for the basic social consensus you want to maintain? – I say to you: No, it can't be! That will not be the perspective. But that's what we can see: The expenditure of the countries for social assistance has exploded in recent years because the federal government has withdrawn. The measures you take in the area of unemployment insurance, for example, will continue this trend. They're moving costs. They shift costs from the federal level to the local level, and where the communities can no longer fulfil their obligations, this is to be done by the family. It's like, for example, a karenz vacation. That is why Mr Khol came and said: Well, there used to be the grandma. Why shouldn't the grandma take care of the child in the future? – I mean, the grandma can't take it, because in the future, the grandma has to work longer for her own pension. This is your responsibility, your responsibility in this statement, in your work agreement, that you want to tie older people to a workplace, so to speak, but for which there is no future perspective, and on the other hand, the youth also has difficulties finding work. I do not find the previous model of early retirement to be the worst, I admit. Of course, we need to discuss this. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Yes, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, you like to believe that. It's good that you like to believe that. You have a different opinion, I know. Only: You have to explain to me where the youth is supposed to take the job. How does she get her? The youth is out of work. We already know – it is already evident in detail – that youth unemployment is beginning to rise. We can calculate if your actions are taken with the bonus malus system – if they are to be grasped; I think it is wrong, but you are trying anyway – if that takes effect with the end of early retirements, then we have a problem with the young people on the labour market. – But this is obviously not a subject for you, Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel! However, I believe that you should also consider how to proceed. But I do not think that you actually did. It is only this agreement of the Federal Government that we need to look at it. It is only necessary to compare it with the previous agreement on employment. What's in there? A little more demands – and a little less binding text. What is above all missing is the structural reforms. I'll give you an example. There is a great deal of talk about the fight against early retirement as one of the most important measures of the Federal Government, although there is no perspective at all, but what is not inside, which is contained in all other coalition agreements, is, for example, the harmonisation of pension systems. No more word about harmonizing pension systems! You've obviously forgotten that. I quote from the 1990 Labour Convention: "All changes must apply equally to all pension schemes. In order for the pension scheme to remain intelligible and to be considered fair, the currently different pension systems must only be developed in parallel and merged in the long term. It is no longer possible to compensate for future future differences." You said that in 1990. In 1994 you knocked on your shoulders and said: "The government parties will continue the path of harmonisation and long-term insurance in the pension system." There's nothing left inside in 1996! Not a word. No harmonisation of pension systems. That's obviously not your topic anymore. The reintroduction of the rules of rest – so reads in today's newspapers – is now no longer a topic for the ÖVP, they are no longer interested. Not even the small approaches you could show that we should show in the sense of social justice are made by you. They fail already in the beginnings of the structural reforms! You do not have the intention of planning structural reforms at all! This can be clearly shown. Today, while discussing here in plenary, I was invited to speak before students. And they said to me: Please explain to us what the meaning of this budget consolidation is. We don't understand him. We don't see any meaning in it. What's the point? Which direction should be consolidated? I then tried to show some meanings for this budget consolidation to students, and the most important meaning of this budget consolidation can be seen in individual measures. If you look at some fiscal measures, if you look at individual social policy measures, you can see: It is useful to be able to demonstrate by the end of 1997 the fulfilment of the convergence criteria for Maastricht. – You don't care about what is after 1997! Doesn't matter! Even if the measures ultimately cost more money after 1997: it doesn't matter! On the one hand, a number of measures are included on the other hand, which will have to be dealt with by you again in 1998. Doesn't matter! The main thing is that in 1997 the Federal Government can demonstrate the fulfilment of the Maastricht convergence criteria externally. Ladies and gentlemen! This is too little for structural reforms! What we ask of you, what we would have called for in fiscal consolidation, would be to think in alternatives. But if you do as the Federal Chancellor has said in his statement of government, that in alternatives, thinking is as long-lasting as in the sentence: "Responsible policy will therefore always have to go into the field of alternatives and find its way there, marking ways," so if you start looking for alternatives, then you will of course not be able to find them, ladies and gentlemen. Then these alternatives will not even be recognized as such. Of course, it would have been necessary and important to look for alternatives even in questions of budget consolidation. They would have been to be found. As a small opposition party, we from the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, have drawn up a budget concept in which alternatives have been identified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You didn't even look at that! They were not even willing to debate it with us! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] They did not even take note of the alternatives that the opposition showed. So you really shouldn't get older about the opposition that you don't think could offer alternatives and could only discuss it with a little mind. They are unable to find alternatives, to recognize, let alone to put them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7721	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7743	Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a matter of setting down the standard as it goes down, Mr Oellinger, but rather of setting the standard and maintaining the standard. It is also about how the existing resources can be used more efficiently and can be distributed. I believe that the programme which the Federal Government has given itself is a rather ambitious programme, a programme that has prospects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we meet the criticism – and it is unquestionably, because the program hurts, but hurts everyone – the critics are opposed to: Austria continues to have a system of support at the highest level that can be seen in Europe, and even after the consolidation programme, this support system will be at a very high level. We have received today's combined system of direct transfers, benefits in kind, tax measures. In the tax field, we have introduced improvements for multi-child families, by increasing the special expenditure framework for families with more than three children by 20 000 p. Unaffected are the age season in the promotion of families, the multiple-child rate in the tax system, the single-earner and single-earner discount rates, and also the co-insurance of students with parents. Family policy is not just a matter of providing cash benefits. We have said that in the past, and we say it now. After six women followed a male family minister with the new Federal Minister, Family Minister. So it will probably change a lot in family policy – or not, we will see – and six female predecessors have a lot to do with it. It is therefore not only about the provision of financial resources, but also about the framework conditions. This is the most important thing, because precisely the framework conditions are the crucial moments, those benefits that enable women and men to reconcile their individual needs for life and their life-planning, namely, to better reconcile work and childcare. If the Federal Minister says that we must not discriminate against housewives or non-working women, I agree. We must not let the labour force and women who are not active and who are not active. Only one thing, of course, can be prevented from discrimination against women in employment. For often it is difficult for women in work to escape the temptation to quit work simply, in view of the lack of childcare facilities, given the working conditions and incomes that make women more difficult to meet. They often want to give up their work to offer men and children a so-called proper home, as it is usually formulated. If I draw the argumentum a contrario, this is probably the opposite to the disorderly home that women in work have to display. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, now, Mr Ofner is saying that birth figures are constantly falling, then I can add one thing: In Austria, birth figures have remained stable since 1985, also during the period 1988 to 1994, in the so-called social-politically particularly good years, namely between 1.45 and 1.5 children per woman. The Convention also provides for accompanying measures, a whole set of measures that have become necessary through the re-regulation of the karenz age. This includes, for us, the sufficient provision of qualified facilities for children of all ages. Of course, this includes not only kindergartens, but also children's cribs, crabhouses, day mothers, private initiatives, networks, farm kindergartens and close cooperation with the private sector. For us, however, the opening hours are also decisive throughout the day with socially adjusted tariffs. One thing I would like to point out at this point, namely that it is due to SPÖ women and their tenacity that now 600 million skilling is available for childcare facilities, for the development of concrete, targeted projects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I must say that was a great success. This contribution of 600 million schilling to structural family policy should not be underestimated. If Mrs Schmidt says that 1 billion Schilling has been talking, and now it is only 600 million schilling, I would like to point out: This billion had been set forward for three years. The 600 million schillings are available until 1997, and then we can wait to see if there is another supplement. In the case of private and individual child care solutions, e.g. in the case of mother-in-law, professional, qualified care and labour and social protection of the caregivers must be ensured. The increasing professional activity of mothers and fathers – more than half of all women with children – has changed the habitats and lifestyles of children and young people, as well as the reduced care of other family members. This means the quoted grandmothers, whom Mr Khol would very much like to use. But I don't want to go to the area of flora and fauna and the "orchidean themes" and not to talk about "millpots", but I just want to hold on to one thing: Women are not manoeuvrants who are once sent to work and then taken back. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation of women in the professional world is of particular interest to us Socialists and Socialists. It is about overcoming life patterns, this cycle: low income, low tax bases, interrupted employment, low insurance periods: because of child rearing times, because of family care. The result of this spiral of discrimination, as I would like to call it, is low pensions, but also low social benefits, such as unemployment benefit, emergency aid, sickness benefit. We have taken action against "risk" women in recent years. I would like to recall the equal treatment package, the billing of child training periods for the retirement periods of women and the second year of retirement. The new Karenz time system is necessary, but can only be accompanied by efficient reform steps. I would also like to take up the suggestion made by Mrs Schmidt that we are no longer talking about 'carence leave', but about a time of leave, and that we decide to make this change in the law together. We also know that the current karenz-time scheme – which, by the way, is unique in Europe; France has more months of karenz, but unpaid – it is no longer possible to finance. We must admit that honestly. We also know, however, that women in the labour market have problems after a long family break. Women have to start 39 attempts to find a job again, get a job – get a job! – and more than 40 000 to 50 000 women are considered to be unmedial because there are no childcare facilities. That can't be a solution in the long run. That is why the agreement has been adopted: increased efforts to create qualified part-time jobs – including no all-time cure, because we know that at present these jobs are worse paid, more unstable, require lower qualifications, but still one step – as well as special programmes for re-primary, flexible working hours, labour-friendly flexibility through time account models, sliding pensions, part-time employment. However, this also includes a set of measures aimed at significantly improving the equality of women in the profession, namely the promotion of women and girls in the development of female careers, i.e. access to non-typical women's occupations, and the effective support for women's occupational training and training. From a family-political point of view, it is not a matter of beautifying the new regulation of the karenz age. I couldn't do that either. But it is not a question of concealing that this measure is likely to result in unsuspected hardness for single parents. But single-minded women are now growing, and their numbers are growing in Austria, as in all other Western industrialized countries. But there is also a women's policy approach, an emancipatory approach in family policy, and this should not be ignored. We have now opted for a very useful variant, namely the taking over of more responsibility for education by fathers, by men. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this educational responsibility should not end at Sunday breakfast, as one could read it in the last "profile" issue. [[Abg. Haigermoser: During daily breakfast!]] In the "sunday" Mr. Khol said. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I am for the daily!]] I'm also for the day-to-day. But Mr. Khol spoke only of "sunday" breakfast. That's what he's doing. But back to responsibility for education. This should be observed in everyday family life. This also includes carrying out budgetary tasks, taking out the experience of getting out of work. This responsibility had to date only the women. This could lead to a rethinking and, as a result, to a different social policy practice. One of the conditions I have been talking about that could have a positive impact on the decision-making of a family is the facilitation of educational tasks for mothers and fathers through concrete projects such as preparatory and accompanying parenting. However, increasing and improving the quality of life of women and families is required by the expansion of women's service and family services. However, it continues to be – and this is at the heart of – the social and economic equality of women by improving legislation in civil law, in family law. It is a question of strengthening and finally implementing, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of partnership in housework and family work. We want to modernise the equal treatment law and regionalise the law for equal treatment issues. These two measures are intended to serve to make concrete and review how equality is done in practice. Last comment: Through all family policy measures, the aspect of educational information – ranging from parental preparation to women's and family guidance information – is like a red thread. In my opinion, however, this also includes health care. Of course, the parent-child passport's research programme remains as free as that of the mother-child passport. However, it is a great concern for me to maintain the proven health policy concept of the mother-child passport even without any financial incentive for the precautionary investigations. In order to compensate for the loss of the financial incentive, it is therefore likely that some accompanying measures will need information and information work. First the future – and that is important! – will show whether the self-responsibilities and information status of the parents are sufficient and are so pronounced that the high level of care is maintained. Our task is to observe this, and if it falls, I believe that the legislator has corrective action.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7828	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7853	Mr President. Not surprisingly almost suddenly empty government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to understand that I cannot judge the new old coalition, its government programme and its tax package as positively as my previous speaker. [[Abg. Head: That would have surprised us!]] I'm asking for understanding. [[Abg. Auer: We have understanding!]] I would rather briefly mark this government programme and the new old coalition with the following sentences: Firstly, shamelessly breaking election promises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The sentence of a prominent coalition negotiator: "We are not guided by the election promises, but by the situation!", not only should I sound very glaring in my ears. You can rely on it: We will remember this sentence over the next four years again and again, until the next election, so that people will then know what they have to keep from your election promises. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Most of them already know!]] Second sentence to characterise the new old coalition and its programme: careless until carelessly when taxing and taxing. We will still have to discuss this in detail in the context of the budget debate. I would like to say to you and also to the public, which surprisingly seems to be ready for sacrifice, in this context: What the public now has to do with the tax payer is not like an inevitable, surprising God’s judgment from bright heaven over Austria, but that is the consequence of a ten-year-long grand coalition, a financial and budgetary policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Say it!]] This should be remembered again and again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thirdly, this new old coalition, as had, is non-binding to lustless in real structural reforms, provided that they are to and must go beyond pure removal and burden care. – If I say "non-binding", I would like to remind you that probably not only we, but also you all sentences like – I quote –: "A comprehensive reform in Austrian healthcare is intended to ensure its financial viability", not for the first time, but for the fifth time – in the government declarations of the cabinet Vranitzky I to V – read. There is nothing known in this area – but also in other areas. Fourthly, this government is old/new visionless and involuntary or perhaps incompetent – quite simply because the differences of opinion of the new/old coalition partners are diametrically opposed to each other in the future of Austria. I am thinking, for example, of the question of Austria's neutrality and its integration into a pan-European security system: either within the framework of the WEU or within the framework of NATO at all. There is no other way! For you, the only question is the question, my dear friends from the left of this house, how can you teach your voters how you can make your left clientele understand that suddenly everything is different than you have told her about it in the last 50 years. High house! In order not to be able to do this my negative assessment of this government and its programme, which we will probably agree with, without further delay and from the outset only as an opposition exercise, I would now like to quote someone from whom you can't, never and never, claim, but whose assessment covers with my briefest possible assessment. This man said – and I really ask you to listen to the two coalition fractions, because it is someone from your ranks – to this new/old coalition government and its load package the following – I begin by quoting: "I believe that the savings package does not solve the problem of debt, but structural reforms in public service, teachers or health have not happened." I quote: "Many problems are and have not been carried out, but that is characteristic of the era of Vranitzky. It's always just a reel. Long endurance in office far does not mean leaving deep traces in a country." – End of the quote. Do you know who said that? - Not the Androsch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Don't get nervous, Mr. Parnigoni! Although this quote may be of the Androsch, it is not, Mr Parnigoni, but it is not of any of the liberal oppositional radicalinskis and notorical coalitionshassers. [[Abg. Parnigoni: My God!]] No, no, no, Do you know who said that? – Your former vice chancellor, Erhard Busek, and I suppose he will be, since he has been sitting together with you for a very long time in a coalition, carried these for years without If and But and defended, but know what he says if he thinks it is nothing with the cabinets of Vranitzky, it is always only a further sausage, always a further trade, and a long term of office does not mean that there are also deep traces left in the country. [[Abg. Parnigoni points towards ÖVP]] Busek will know it, I suppose, and I am glad that he is now finally saying it once after he has freed himself from that of your embrace. He should've done it before, I admit. But better late than not at all, Mr Parnigoni. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Against this background, I think it is also relatively irrelevant who has pulled over the table during the coalition negotiations. I really don't want to interfere in this thing. I also do not want to make anyone disputed the main responsibility for this government programme, which your former vice-channer has so aptly characterized – and whose opinion I fully agree with. I would just like to say the following: Should it really be so, dear comrades, as it writes "profile" and as the ÖVP believes – the ÖVP has supposedly voted the choral quite sensitively on the last night of the negotiation: [[Call the SPÖ:Hello!]] "Brother Franzi, are you asleep?"; in other words, the ÖVP is already imagining that it has pulled you over the table – that is, that of Mr. Vice-Kanzler Schüssel – not Holger Bauer! I don't like cover and report so bad, I don't know why he complained, I don't think his picture is so bad at all, but please, I don't like it; I'm not; why should I not be, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You've seen that in the "profile"!]] [[Abg. Ritsmer: Don't be so unstoppable!]] So I don't know what I said wrong now to the colleague Reitsamer's address – but if it's so that Mr. Vice-Chancellor actually took off shirt and pants to Mr. Federal Chancellor, as the ÖVP says it, and how the "profile" according to colleague Reitsämmer is tasteless – I'm sorry, I'm not quite used to the proud world of social democracy, because it's something quite terrible when a photo-mounting... [[Abg. Ritsmer: Now fit it!]] [[Abg. That's clear to me!]] I am just saying it to you, therefore, not reddening; it was not your great Mr. Federal Chancellor nakedly pictured, it was a photo montage, therefore not reddening and not falling back into the old chagrin of social democracy, where you are promoting great freedom, especially in the sexual field, Mrs. Reitsamer; not you personally, I am afraid, but in general you are for great freedom, and now you are puddle and find it tasteless when a news magazine makes such a photo montage by Mr. Federal Chancellor; but please, these are not my problems. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. In contrast to the "profile" we are not so tasteless!]] [[==References====External links== Quicker]] [[Abg. Ritsmer: You can argue about taste!]] I would like to thank you, Mrs Reitsamer, for not covering both our tastes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your article is tasteless!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Nicer.]] I am also glad, Mrs Reitsamer, if we had the same taste, I would be worried. You have now really distracted me from the photo montage of Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is said to have taken off shirt and pants. – So should it really be so, then, I think, the left half of the empire should think once in a quiet hour about how such a thing is possible. I believe that one of the reasons for this will be that if a third majority party has been systematically excluded for years, it is known that there is little room for negotiation – which the other party has not done so perfectly. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Extinguish yourself!]] I am of the opinion that at the latest in the emerging post-Vranitzky era, you should start a reflection process on whether what you have been practicing against the liberals for ten years is really the right recipe for democracy and also for party politics.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8113	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Bauer mentioned here earlier Erhard Busek. To this end, I would like to say: Erhard Busek was probably right when he mentioned that self-deception, which is a part of the last federal government, namely in the assessment of our own situation – of course, colleague Haigermoser –: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now everything is paletteti?]] A wealthy country like Austria has built up a system of state care, promotion and administration which could no longer be financed in its structural and expenditure dynamics and which, after all, threatened to tax generations financially exponentially. It has already called for the "disillusionment", as it has called Vice-chancian bowl in its own diction, namely the "deceiving" by new elections and by a cascasm by which one was first able to eliminate this self-deception. Now on my real topic: A similar "deception" was necessary in the field of environmental policy several years ago, and God was Thanks to this, 10, 15, 20 years ago, we agreed to the belief that resources can be consumed at any time. As a result of economic growth, we have served our environment to a degree that it would certainly not have endured in the long term. Nor do I hide that a great contribution to this "disillusionment", i.e. the elimination of self-deception, the Greens and also the NGOs, have made to this development. However, it was above all ÖVP Environment Ministers who, in times of strong economic growth and prosperity, not only recognized the need for resource conservation, but also put in place appropriate measures. The OECD report no longer required it, but it was a confirmation of what good environmental situation we are in: 70 percent of our households are already connected to biological treatment plants; the SO2 emissions have been reduced by 80 percent since 1990; the deposited volume of household waste has been reduced by 40 percent since 1990; the landfill regulation, which has now been in force, will contribute to the improvement of this situation; energy use and the growth of gross domestic product could be decoupled at an early stage; and finally, in Austria, we have an incomparablely high share of primary energy from renewable energy sources, i.e. 27 percent. – As I said, All of this doesn't come from about. ODP Environment Ministers have done the basic work for this in recent years. If I have taken this look into the past, so to speak, in order to be able to bear in mind that, of course, these proveable successes should not make us self-satisfy now, but that – and this is also written in the Government's agreement – important areas and important issues in the field of environmental policy of a solution need to be addressed and addressed, namely climate protection, air conservation, waste management, waste management and waste disposal, to name just a few. We have been able to achieve the successes we have achieved so far, essentially through regulatory measures, but now these regulatory measures are at the borders of regulatory enforcement monitoring, which we must clearly recognise. I believe that, in view of the fact that there has been a change in the awareness of the population, future environmental policy can also be strengthened by economic incentives and, above all, by voluntary agreements with the various stakeholders in order to be effective and efficient. The government agreement sets out a goal which is called "simplification and concentration of procedures", and it is here generally expressed by opposition politicians in particular that this could lead to a reduction of standards and also to a reduction of civil rights. The opposite should be the case! But as I said, Today, at a time when we have just reached the limits of this official monitoring of execution, it is, I believe, an hour's commandment to re-dimension these instruments in their effects rationally, because otherwise, through these instruments, through overbureaucratisation, the very opposite would be achieved, namely, a flight from the application of these instruments. Another sentence for ecologizing the tax system: I believe that our energy tax now contained in the draft legislation in the Government Convention is quite a first step towards ecologizing the tax system, simply and simply because, in the medium term, the shift from tax burden to energy will certainly have a steering effect, but, of course, it will certainly have an example effect in other countries. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't believe that!]] And let's be honest... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Vorarlberg!]] Mr Haigermoser! Let's leave the church in the village! However, in a budgetaryly so precarious situation – I would have preferred that we should have been able to reduce the additional wage costs in the course of this energy tax introduction or increase – it is certainly a success to see that it has succeeded to avoid further increases in additional labour costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Mentil and other Members of the Liberals.]] Again: Please leave the church in the village when considering the additional wage costs! Look If you do, please consider the overall situation of labour costs: With the overall labour costs, we are in good company with other Western European industrialized countries, not necessarily with competitors on the issue of location problems, especially when it comes to the discussion of outsourcing. [[Abg. Edler: This is the truth!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Haigermoser! If you keep mixing pears with apples and talking about outsourcings of some textile companies in the country, so if you're talking about outsourcings of textile and clothing companies in countries that have a tenth of the labour cost of Austria when you compare these things, then, I think, you don't know what you're talking about! [[Abg. Mentil: Is Britain a pear or an EU member?]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topic of energy policy very briefly: I have already pointed out that over the last 10, 15, 20 years, we have succeeded in decoupling economic growth and energy consumption, and that we can also have a very high share of renewable energy sources in our energy balance, which of course supports the Toronto target, i.e. CO2 reduction. Depending on economic development, however, our energy needs will continue to increase slightly according to all forecasts – not all but most forecasts. In the next few years, however, we will have to pursue essentially three energy policy objectives. The first is clear to us: the most extensive use of domestic and, above all, renewable energy sources, which is also supported and accompanied in particular by support instruments such as the ÖKK. An important principle is to continue to ensure security of supply in the country to a high degree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A second objective must certainly be to optimise the efficiency of energy use – and this applies to all areas of energy use, i.e. from production to transport to consumption. There are still huge potentials here that can bring us a lot closer to achieving the Toronto target. Finally, the third objective, in order to be able to increase efficiency in energy use, is above all to adapt organisational structures, which must not necessarily mean a change in ownership structures. The federalistic structure of the energy industry, as we have, for example, in Vorarlberg, and therefore we do not want to give up. In particular, sales should be prevented. Of course, we must try to pool individual activities, as a response to the changed competitive situation created by the EU Directive on the creation of an internal electricity market. I would like to address a very different area very briefly – from an energy-charged area to another energy-charged area – namely sport. You all know that we had a State Secretariat for Sports in the Federal Government for over 15 months. Our Secretary of State Mag. In this short time, checkers have managed to put in place some very valuable initiatives for sport. For example, I should just like to mention the Youth Multipliers initiative or the approach to give social security to women who work in top-level sports. – The agreement that women will also be able to come to the German army in the future will certainly enable women to access the army sports and nearby combat school – a particularly important point for sport! There is, of course, also a small advertising drop in times of savings packages for sport, by the fact that special sports promotions cannot be valorised in the next two years. But I think it is only right and cheap that sport – even if it is difficult with its modest means – makes its contribution to the savings package. Again, back to the budget and to environmental policy. I would like to make a comparison here: The experience of environmental policy, the successes of the last ten years, which we have achieved through a consistent approach to sustainable rehabilitation, makes me very confident personally that this government will also be able to secure the future of Austria, the future for our children and our descendants, with similar structural measures, as they have just been mentioned in the Government Convention, so that this government, which has attached itself to the flags, will now also succeed in budgetary policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8269	The next item is Mrs Maria Schaffenrath. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! Mr. Kopf! Let me add to your remarks: In order for the EIA, when it comes to the social security of women, to be concerned at all, it must at least be top sportsmen, otherwise you have not thought in this direction yet. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would also like to comment on a few comments from Members of the SPÖ: If Mrs Ederer is proud of the fact that the SPÖ has won, that is true. But the SPÖ has unfortunately also lost – it has lost its principles, the principles of social democratic policy in the area of women's policy, and unfortunately also in the field of education policy. She did this to the ÖVP. If Mrs Ederer, as the focus of women's policy, once again mentions childcare and wants to represent this 600 million schilling once more as a social gift to women, I must also reject the vehement. The society has a claim, especially the children have a claim! I was disappointed at the time when she discussed co-insurance for childless wives. It has also missed a very important social policy approach to the social protection of women, thus playing women against women and discussing such an important approach only as a saving measure. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But Mrs Ederer is in good company with Mr Hums, the Federal Minister, who has also referred to only child care as the only priority for women. I regret that Mrs Mertel is not here now. She really referred to those priorities in women's policy which I would like to sign. I congratulate her on her personal commitment! It is unfortunate that none of these priorities can be found in the Coalition Convention. Unfortunately, she did not have the necessary enforcement power, just as the Minister for Women did. I share Mrs Mertel's view, in particular, when she says that the field of work for women must be widened. We have a highly segmented field of work, but we have to start with the spread earlier. We must start already with the seemingly non-functioning coordination, evaluate this coordination and finally eliminate its weaknesses in order to enable a rethinking in the minds of boys and girls, of men and women in the end. But now quite specific to the Coalition Convention: There was talk here of an "offensive reform programme". – This is not an offensive reform programme! It's a knee trap, it's a bow against the non-existent women's policy of the ÖVP. It comes as a self-tasking task, it is a clear step back for all women. And it was the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, who posterted: "We will not allow that...", but unfortunately did it. I only need to compare the two coalition agreements, namely the 1994 agreement with the current one. The number of pages alone becomes clear on and for itself: Four pages were still worth women and family in 1994, this year it is almost one page. I already know that quality and quantity have very different meanings, but the quality of this one narrow side leaves much to be desired! With services and consulting facilities alone, there is no reasonable women's policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] On the basis of this coalition agreement, let me go through what the SPÖ has given up on principles: The reform of the constitutional principle of equality can no longer be found. The issue of equal opportunities for women in the context of fundamental rights reform is no longer existent. It is also no longer possible to share family work in partnership. – That was never our position – quite the contrary – but it was at least a favorite theme of the SPÖ women, especially the former women’s minister Dohnal. Unfortunately, there are no measures in the field of equality policy as an integral part of economic and structural policy. There are no measures in the context of a labour market policy women's programme to facilitate access to the labour market, in particular the return to the labour market. [[Abg. Verbatim: (keeping the height of written documents) Pages 42 and 43 of the Coalition Convention!]] Mr Deputies! I'll tell you something. They are primarily limited to parttime work under the chapter "Women and Family". [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] On the contrary: You're making it worse! Not only that You do not encourage re-entry, you will still be able to save on re-entry aid by providing this re-entry aid only if a parent consumes full two years of karenz time, which is already a current proposal. You know that you have made a de facto reduction in the time of your leave. They know that the share of men in the use of karenz is only about 0.8 percent. And you know very well that only through death or need of care can the father be freed from his share in the care period. The child is even taken into custody when the father is in prison, because prison sentences are not charged in this case. – Which women will then still be in the enjoyment of re-entry aid? - Maybe you'll explain this to me later. You have also failed to create at least one framework for this de facto reduction in the time of leave, which would ultimately ensure that at least in the approach there will be a sharing of this time of leave. In your last coalition agreement, you had one more point: "Renewal of the time limit for reporting in the case of the use of the leave period". – You took it out, it didn’t happen. This is an unequal treatment of men and women at the expense of women – as not to be expected otherwise. You also have this important point: "In matrimonial law, a compensation for the acquisition of pension rights in the case of divorce is removed". – This was a statement of intent that probably did not cover itself with the intention of ÖVP Klubobmann Khol as a protector of marriage. They are no longer talking about women's social security, except – I have already pointed out – one is one of the high-performance sportsmen, then one might still have relatively good chances. They are also no longer talking about the problem of small employees, who are mostly women. They are no longer talking about laying the foundation stone for women's poverty in old age. – So you have given up all these principles and many more! The fact remains that the de facto reduction in the time of leave of leave without accompanying measures affects women. The fact is that the repurchasing of retirement periods also meets disproportionate women. The fact is that there are no measures and indications on how you intend to increase the proportion of women in employment. On the contrary: You decided on a bonus malus system here yesterday, which will even reduce the proportion of women in employment. They are still sparse when it comes to the abolition of the night work ban. I can only hope that you will not realize this fractional fragment, which is now under consideration, because this will unfortunately not solve the problem of women. The problem is more up-to-date than ever. Perhaps you have read it in the "Press" that many women lose their job, in Vorarlberg some have already lost him, that is, danger is actually in delay. The employment rate of women in Austria is only the OECD average. We are about the same level as Portugal. If measures are not put in place at the earliest, Austria is likely to be reached relatively quickly. It is, when I look at this programme, when I look at this statement of intent, apparently not a political will of this coalition government to allow women a self-determined and independent life. I would like to come to a second point, and I regret that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer is no longer here. I would have liked to say a lot of positive things about school that could have been included in this coalition agreement. I am personally sorry – education is a big concern to me, and education is a great concern to all liberals – that there has been no more than vague statements of intent and that it has sold so-called "no-na" explanations as great educational findings. The only improvement compared with 1994 was that the formulation of these "lean-skins" could indeed be greatly improved. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Minister for Education is right: The hourly cuts in secondary education would have had the chance to become a structural measure. That chance would have been daily. We have already discussed this issue once, within the 45-minute period. But at that time too, the chance of this structural reform has failed in the end on the Christian trade unions, on the teachers' unions. The problem of this structural reform is the order. In this case the savings measure was first and then the shortfall of the hours, and this results in the absence of the necessary framework conditions. What happens to all the young, trained teachers who will no longer find a job during the next 10 to 15 years due to the teacher's age structure? What effect does it have if we have an elderly teacher? How does it look with the necessary framework conditions, with the curriculums? – There will be nothing to be expected two, three years ago, and this can ultimately affect our students very quickly. I say that this saving measure was chosen because the least resistance of the teachers' unions was to be expected. In the "Press" one could clearly read it: Teachers have still been admiring that they would be willing to give up a share of overtime – as if they had a legal claim on it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would have liked to find more positive things than I read the word "school autonomy". I had vague hopes. But, of course, school autonomy must also be meant seriously. In the new coalition agreement, I find nothing more about the involvement of the school partners in staff decisions. On the contrary: It seems to be in your interest to maintain the Party Protocol at the Colleges of the Council of State Schools in order to be able to occupy major head offices in the school sector from above. It didn't even reach 10 percent autonomy in the school book budgets – not even for 10 percent autonomy! This was also abolished, regardless of the fact that both parties already agreed that these funds should have been allocated to school books, to teaching materials from the autonomous administration of the school. I read "foreign language offensive" and see on the other hand the scheduled hourly cuts. I read 'lifelong learning' and I know that last year the funds for adult education were cut by 10 percent. I'm really waiting for what this is going to be like. There is also no real reform concept for apprenticeship training. There are massive cuts in apprenticeships. We will present a detailed approach in this regard. The scarcity of the funds could have been an opportunity for real reforms, but unfortunately it was not used. I see, unfortunately, my time is not enough for many points to be discussed here, but my club lady, my previous speakers have already responded. I can join this and identify with it. However, those proposals that you have made are economic, pro-prising, youthful and structural conservative. And believe me: In the sense of Austria, I would have liked to use other words.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8390	Mrs Hostasch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schaffenrath! I can only explain to you that you do not have the final version of the Coalition Agreement in your hands and therefore have not been able to read what is included in the questions raised by you in this agreement. I do not want to go into detail now because the Ministers Gehrer and Scholten have already given a detailed opinion on the questions of school, education and universities. But I only refer to pages 8, 42, 43 and 44 of the questions you have raised. I ask you to really assess this agreement only by what is actually contained in this agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider said yesterday that he regrets the state of play of the Federal Government and also the coalition agreement of this one. [[Abg. Scheibner: This one!]] We only have these, Mr President. We don't have anyone else. I am convinced that with this view you are a disappearing minority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am glad that we have this Federal Government. I am glad that this coalition agreement has been reached, and I am convinced that with this view I have the vast majority of the Austrian population behind me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What Austria needs is an actionable government, a work programme that is transparent, comprehensible. Austria needs stable political conditions. I therefore believe that it was very important for the social partners, the representatives of interests and the local authorities to work out a consolidation programme and, on the other hand, to draw up clear guidelines for future reforms and clear priorities where the way is going. The focus must be on employment, which I would like to return to later. It was also said yesterday very critically, as was not expected from the wait of the liberals: "The chamber state has conquered." – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think Austria is very well advised, Austria can be proud and therefore it is envied that it has this social system. Many countries are looking with interest at the way in which it works in Austria, and we are very proud that the social partners in this country are a strong force which can produce much for workers, as well as for the economy as well as for the economy as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I understand, however, that this strong force is disturbing you in your political concept. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It is only good that Benya is already gone! He couldn't have heard that!]] Mr Stadler! I think that Mr Benya, with even more convincing words, would have underlined these statements. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Benya has heard colleagues Haider, and then he has gone! That's enough for him!]] Mr Stadler! What the social partners highlight is to achieve a balance of interests, both inside and outside, in order to see the objective of cooperation and to find consensus and balance. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... you can forget the rest!]] These are vocabularys you don't find in your political program. They do not aim at balance and consensus, but they aim at contradiction, polarization. That's not our style! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! The cohesion of a society is then given if it is characterised by tolerance, mutual respect, social understanding and, accordingly, by the best conditions for progress and handling the great challenge of the future. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have to read every single phrase!]] Mr Stadler! It's not a phrase for me. If it is phrases for you, let it look deeply, Mr President. You can't start with these content, because it's not the content of your policy, but we can't do anything about it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I live them!]] I am sorry, Mr Stadler. I do not want to live with these aspects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The following, ladies and gentlemen, must also be said: We face major challenges. The economy is characterised by the globalisation of markets. We are facing major structural changes. Society is characterized by a change of values, individualism. We have economic philosophies, which have an extensive use of labour force, an extensive use of capital. We have overcrowded the financial markets. We have corporate strategies, according to which fewer and fewer employees are expected to generate more and more productivity. It is considered to be particularly successful those who achieve more and more with fewer and fewer employees. I think it is particularly important at such a time that stabilising forces in the national field act that, by means of clear domestic political frameworks, they will react to developments abroad. And it is significant that a few days ago the "Kurier" reported the following: Due to a positive development of the American labour market, a chaos has arisen in the financial markets. . I think this must be very thoughtful for us, and it is also a call for us to rethink in the economic philosophies and also as a small country wherever we influence, whether it be the OECD, whether it be in the European Union, to raise awareness of it and to draw attention to it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also true what is said in the press today, namely that the structural element and system of interests makes policy predictable and predictable. – That is exactly what we need in this country. I am therefore very glad that this Federal Government has come together and that a work programme is already on the table. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This programme must be a priority for employment policy offensives. And these are not keywords, Mr Mag. Stadler to get ahead of this, but read those documents, which were published on 19 March. As a working paper of the social partners, the social partners' catalogue of measures was placed on the table of the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An old misunderstanding, Madam President, an old misunderstanding! They always believe when a decision is made at the party's meeting that it has actually already happened!]] This programme contains very specific ideas where employment initiatives are to be set up which infrastructure investment can be started in the short term, in the medium and long term, which export offensives can be implemented. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Age of Socialist Tragedy!]] It also proposes debureaucratisation measures and stresses the need for a skill offensive and more flexibility in the working world towards working time policy. But I would just like to say on this issue that flexibility from the point of view of the workers can only mean that it must also be of benefit to workers, that what we have under the sovereignty of time, including time autonomy, more design possibilities, better compatibility of work and family life must also be used, and that we must come out of some rigid concepts, in which workers too are caught. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If Dr. Haider is more often present here as a representative of the small and weak, I wonder how he sees the situation of the trade workers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's him!]] It calls for forms of liberalisation which are only at the expense of this group of workers. I also think that we should consider what this means for local services, because it is a very important condition for the weaker members of our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have already referred to the importance of an employment offensive and would like to refer to a second, very concrete initiative. We had a few days ago – it was on 28 May. February – a large conference of the Federal Chamber of Labour, together with the trade unions of private workers, metal, mining, energy and also construction wood, in which we have developed a very concrete concept for the Federal Government, for the local authorities, but also for the private sector, which measures can be taken in the area of infrastructure, transport, construction and housing and also in environmental protection. The construction sector in particular has a key position within the economy, provides for the strongest domestic demand and also for the corresponding effectiveness, and the investments in the construction also achieve the highest multiplier effects. It is therefore very crucial that measures be put in place here in the short term and that those concrete points which we have referred to be implemented. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say something else as an overall review: The consolidation programme of the Federal Government is hard, it is necessary, but it deserves the assessment of balance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the next few days and weeks, we are asked to introduce the relevant laws in the Committee's deliberations to a decision-making process in the House. I would ask you to take this advice into account: These draft laws can be seen as a package. If changes in one area are to be made, they will also have implications in other areas. This means that if a group of interests makes changes in the affected areas, this will have an impact on other interest groups. From my point of view, there must not be a shift to the burden of self-employed workers, to the detriment of weaker people in our society. The objectives set must be achieved to a degree that we can continue to apply the "balance" predicate. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have often talked about an Austrian way, a successful Austrian way. It's a tough program we've got in front of us. There is a lot of work ahead of us, but I am convinced that this Austrian path will continue successfully over the next four years – for the workers in our country, for our people!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8629	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8651	Mr President. Minister for Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen. I too would like to address in my contribution the situation of women under this government agreement and what we are about to do next when you present your common budget. I also think it is important at an early hour, after a longer debate and before a slightly lighter series, to debate and to cut this issue. If I look at the content of the Convention, the debate over the last few days and weeks and the reports on the media, I feel as if there has been a paradigm change in the situation of women or women's policy at all. We obviously come to situations – this can be seen from statements made – that remind us of the fifties when we were still far away from all equality and equal treatment between women both in the profession and in public life. Finally, an interview reminded me again. If it is possible that a clubman of a parliamentary party, in which not so few women are represented, who are very active when it comes to the concerns of women, and who is very committed to it, can give an interview in a news magazine and there, almost so I say, there are styling flowers of itself, but by no means only any form of politics, of women's policy views, then this has shaken me, all the more so, when there is no answer, no response from the women of that party about what their clubman has said. I was shocked to see that it is possible today for the club to be so strong and so great that the interests of those who pretend to represent them or take them otherwise are no longer represented. Back to the Government Convention: They have written here – and quite rightly so – in principle on one side, what they will do in terms of women's policy and what is still in place among women, family and youth. All the other sides do not include any major government projects in relation to women's policy. You write: The regionalization – for example, only the law firm for equal treatment issues – is used for the concreteisation and review of practice. – How true, how true! I can only say that paper is patient, because you have taken such a purpose a long time ago. We constantly demand and on every occasion only possible opportunity to actually implement it. This regionalization of the equal treatment lawyers in the federal states is more urgent than ever, but in fixed terms alone and in paper form nothing will change. You write: The compatibility of work and family should be provided with children of all ages through adequate facilities. – It has been discussed more often today, and it is to be said here again that these facilities are not available, that they are not available in particular where the opening hours are all day and also appropriate to the needs. The 600 million schilling you are now providing is a farce, if you know that for years you have been making an election campaign, that you are first talking about the "Kindergarten Billion" and then want to let them go down without singing and sound, and then delete 600 million schilling for something that should and should be a matter of course. In your project, there are two completely missing applications which have already been dealt with and discussed in advance in the House. There are no measures for the actual equality of women in the constitutional rank, i.e. all positive measures that provide for a temporary preference for women in order to actually achieve equality in the constitutional rank. This project is missing in your coalition agreement at all. There is a lack of all the measures that lead to a real quota system, to equality between women and men in politics. They have made no effort at all to think about how to increase the proportion of women – for example here in this House as well as in the countryside and other political bodies – to 50 percent. This seems to be no longer a matter of concern to you, and this is reflected in this kind of policy, as you can see here in the Coalition Agreement. If you write that, in order to facilitate women and men's difficult educational tasks, they should be encouraged to do so, then I can only ask, in response to the interview with Klubobmann Khol, whether these "offers" may be limited to making Sunday breakfasts in the future in order to divide the educational task between man and woman, or if you have any other funding in mind. Last but not least, you write that women's service offices and counsellors are further developed and equipped. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are you doing that? – I hear only from all the federal states that such facilities are separated, drastically reduced, restricted and threatened by locking up. All the important institutions for women, especially offices, autonomous bodies of women's advice and emergency calls to women's homes, are extremely vulnerable to this responsible austerity policy that you pursue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is left of you as an answer, and what do you think as an answer to the equality of women or to the alleged equality of women? – Only that you now want to allow women to take up professional careers in the federal army. But this is not at all an approach to equality, for it has been a privilege to have women excluded from the military service to compensate for many other disadvantages and burdens they have. And now you want to do all these burdens, to all these disadvantages that are also supposed to be equality! [[Abg. Grossruck: Voluntarily! Only for those who want!]] To voluntaryity something: If voluntarily, then voluntarily for everyone! And if there is equality in the federal army, we'll start with the Minister and not somewhere with the cleaning women. Look in other countries where women are in the army: Apart from very few exceptions, where women have been able to get up-to-date positions in the military sector, to make a career, the vast majority of women there are typically employed in care posts, health care and office. It is not a question of equality between women in the federal army, which is reflected here. In fact, it is only a matter of trying to compensate for frail years and a stronger trend towards women’s civil service – with a mesh that is around the whole. If I have already talked about the paradigm change and the loss of visions that go along with this kind of thing – not even politics can be called it, because politics has a formative character, but that does not have the paper you are presenting as a coalition paper – if we are already talking about the loss of visions, then I must say: It was also like a vision or, as a daily newspaper said, a sign of hope that there could once be a society in which men no longer have to take arms and no longer make military service. But you have finally left this vision. It is not a question of demilitarizing politics and society, but it is obviously your concern to continue to militarize them and to build up this militarization, this pervasive armament and also structural forms of violence even further by opening up this area and then selling it as "equal treatment" and "equal rights". – That has nothing to do with women's policy! All in all: What you represent in this coalition paper as a women's policy is, in my opinion, a witness to poverty for the government, but not a contribution to equality!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8696	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8718	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Scholten, the Federal Minister, has certainly not made a small claim, which has also been taken over by the media to be the "Future Minister" of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There must be a fear of the future!]] I do not know that I believe that this claim must, of course, be settled. Not that we would not entrust him with this ability, the personal capacity to his ministry, but the combination of these different tasks and competences, science, culture, transport, I am quite sure, with scepticism, whether this distribution of competence can in fact be optimally represented and united by a ministry and a minister. But this responsibility is not ours. This is the case of the Social Democratic Party, as it believes, to have to divide and concentrate its ministries and competences. The fact is that this has created a very large ministry with very heterogeneous tasks. In the interests of our country and transport policy, I would like to ask Mr Scholt to have the necessary impact, political vision and professional competence in order to be able to deal with the very diverse and complex transport problems which are soon to be solved. That won't be an easy task. Just two days ago, Peter Michael Lingens stated in the "Standard" how important transport issues are to solve future problems. He said: The future of transport is more important than the future of the Bundestheater. – I can gain a lot of this opinion when I think of the traffic problems we have in those cities that are increasingly suffocating in traffic, when I think of the pendler currents that are increasing more and more, or of the freight transport, whose change from road to rail is becoming less and less successful. I am sure that transport policy will not be a link to scientific and cultural policy, but it must be a very central area of Austrian government policy, but I am sure that Mr Scholten will see it as I am. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A very important area of this transport policy is the toll policy, which currently provides emotions in Austria and in Europe, especially in the Federal Republic of Germany. I would just like to say that there is a hysteria that exists about Austria's decision to introduce tolls. But this hysteria truly lacks any basis when you look at what the regulations in this area are in the other countries. [[Abg. Wabl: Traffic tax!]] It is not only that countries such as France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain and many others also have tolls, but that, as a rule, the rates abroad are higher and therefore also far more for foreign holiday guests than for Austrian tariffs. The fact is that tourists who travel through Austria or spend their holidays in Austria will benefit from our tariff compared to other European countries' prices. In Switzerland, for example, there is only the annual vignette, even if you pass through only once. In Austria there are at least the two-month vignette and also further classifications. Hungary collects on M 1 a toll of 65 S for a ride. There are toll systems in Italy and France where the car user pays much more than the Austrian proposal. In Italy, on average, each motorway kilometer costs 60 groschen, and only the journey from the border to Padua costs as much as 220 s. In France the tolls are even higher, where they make up even 80 tolls per kilometer. So all in all, ladies and gentlemen, we have found a meaningful and moderate solution in Austria. The fear that the toll could stop German holidaymakers from staying in Austria is factually not justified, but it is startled – also as part of the political struggle against the Federal Government and against its savings package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – But whoever does this, ladies and gentlemen, does not only harm this federal government, but he also harms Austrian tourism, and he thus harms the Austrian economy! Ladies and gentlemen! This vignette is also the only way to actually finance the long-awaited gap. This vignette is also the only way to use the 3.7 million foreign handlebars for financing. This would not be possible in the case of a dedicated mineral oil tax, for example, because many simply pass through. In our opinion, the level of the price of this vignette is also moderate enough to prevent a greater deviation on federal or national roads. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, it would be unfair and unfair to use other motorways and other regions of Austria to create exceptions, such as that demanded by the mayor of Vienna, Häupl. This would only mean that the whole toll system would be unfinanceable and scrutinized and could no longer be used to finance the so urgently needed gap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also very strange that Mr. Mayor Häupl makes himself so strong for this exception from the 550 S for the Wiener Stadtautobahnen and sees this as an irresistible burden on the Vienna-based drivers. On the other hand, it must be pointed out that the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, had no concern or skrupel at all, for example, for the residents of Vienna city centre, to establish an annual park pickerl of 2,200 s, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – So a little more restraint on the park pickerl or even a reduction at the price of the toll pickerl, and all problems would be solved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Here too, ladies and gentlemen, it is easier to save on others, at the federal government, than on themselves, even when country and local council elections are on the doorstep. Ladies and gentlemen! This gap is necessary for many reasons, including, I am saying, Mr Wabl, for reasons of road safety. Because you know that wherever new motorways are built, the number of accidents compared to the federal roads also immediately decreases by up to 80 percent, which has long been demonstrated internationally and also in Austria by many studies. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: More traffic is created!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not true! That's wrong!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Main: Except on the "Sparautobahnen"!]] – In addition to the "Sparautobahnen", of course, and we are also firmly opposed to the construction of such "Sparautobahnen". Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to conclude, in order not to exceed the ten minutes, because in the next few months we will be dealing with many transport and infrastructure projects, such as the upcoming Rail Infrastructure Act, with the revision of the ÖBB Act or even with the exclusion of Austrian postal services, i.e. with important areas of Austrian infrastructure policy and transport policy. I believe that this government and its coalition parties have demonstrated, in their declaration of government and in the projects set out in the Coalition Agreement, that they are able to recognize the problems of the future in transport policy, as well as to pursue decisive proposals for solutions which are suitable to deal with these problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8866	Mr Haigermoser is now on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8887	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The whim in the plenary actually proves what has happened today. The debate was almost a revelation. The Social Democratic Party, according to the motto "We have pulled the ÖVP over the table" and "I san me!" traded, the ÖVP has given a weak exercise of duty, the living accident without steam, juice and powerless, only so that one can hold a bar once again in the speaker list. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP]] That's how the thing happened. The shadow fight Kukackas does not change that, although he has tried a little bit to give one thing to him, on the other hand he has fallen back into the old duty exercises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, it has become apparent that in his government statement of yesterday, enriched by the ministers, the speech bubbles of Vranitzky actually said everything to the Austrians: There were the old promises, no visions, nothing new. And it is quite interesting to quote a sentence from the 1987 Declaration of Government of Vranitzky, for example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] That's very important, Kukacka, old friend! For in the same choice of words was yesterday and in the Coalition Convention the following was communicated to the astounding public: So documentation 1987; that's what the Lord – Munich – has heard today – Vranitzky: The Federal Government will therefore bring about an improvement in the founding conditions by means of start-up financing measures. – In the small and medium-sized enterprises! That was 1987. Until now, nothing has happened in this respect, on the contrary, a deterioration has occurred: BÜRGES, ERP, tax measures. Deterioration everywhere, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder. And then comes a very interesting sentence, which can be found on page 11 of the 1987 Coalition Convention: The conditions for access to business start-up must be adapted to today's technical and innovation conditions in the revision of the trade order. – 28–28. January 1987. Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor or Mr. Tichy-Schreder signs as the responsible person of the ÖVP: Liberalisation of trade and access conditions should be improved. 1987 – 1996. This look back was therefore necessary because it makes it clear that you have lost all credibility with the Austrian citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition – and it is the business chamberer President Maderthaner, stupid, Tichy-Schreder almost a medium for these things – that Maderthaner said he would only agree to this package if it were mainly saved in expenditure. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: For you we are a medium!]] And that is the case, he says, more than two thirds would be saved on the expenditure side. Let us now look, President Maderthaner, at the opinion of the Wifo experts – see "Presse" of 13. March, just a few hours ago –: That is where Mr Georg Busch, the competent economics expert – and now beware, President Madethaner, says, because there you are punished lies about your statements and your statements of intent – the relation of two thirds of savings and one third of additional burdens claimed by the government corresponds in fact to a ratio of 1 : 1. – So nothing with the whole story, it would be more saved on the expenditure side. And you don't need to be a prophet, Mrs. Tichy-Schreider, Mr. stupid, Mr. Maderthaner, to find out that this will be over half the year 70: 30. There the entrepreneurs will thank you very much for your approval of this load package without If and But, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is remarkable how the Chamber of Commerce, first and foremost President Maderthaner, presents the forced members: like school boys. The forced members are presented like school boys – with your statements in the public, because you are not even willing to discuss these burdens in the Entrepreneur's Parliament. Mr Dohr has at least gone to his elected body and voted there, has had a discussion there. – They say: I am the economy, without If and But, socialist ways are further discussed, we are the sausage, the main thing, we have established our forced castle again and stay there among us. They have proved that you are scattering sand into the eyes of the economy. They release colorful images in one of their guiding posts and carry out the following under the title "Offensive Strategy" – that's quite interesting, it's from February 1996 –: There must be no tax increases and additional wage costs in the next three years. In the next days and hours You decide on these tax increases, although a few weeks ago you sent tax-paying entrepreneurs that there would be no tax increases with your consent, ladies and gentlemen. You have the forehead to say to the workers, in the next three years there must be no real wage increases, and on the other hand, you say, at the extra wage costs, that we only freeze one, there are no reductions. This is the real community towards the economy and the workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's totally defying – that's really defamatory and shows clearly how you deal with the forced members, namely, with an ignorance and arrogance, when you say that the economy is ready to carry the planned eco tax. Where is this an eco-tax when it is increased and nothing happens on the load side at all, Mr Puttinger? Nothing for the municipal tax, nothing for the apprentice tax! – So you carry a new tax, although you have promised otherwise. But it gets even thicker: If there is a definitive commitment that neither a solidarity levy nor the social and pension insurance contributions are introduced, then you can even agree to the tax increases, please continue to say. – On the previous page, it is said that the Austrian Chamber of Commerce calls for an increase in the contributions of pensioners. So exactly the opposite on two opposite sides, ladies and gentlemen! This means that the Economic and Social Committee is degenerated here. You almost want to say: Sallinger, look at that! The old Sallinger, his sign of one of the fathers of the social partners, would turn around in the grave if he had to observe his successors, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you, Mr Puttinger, have collected 150 000 signatures in the drinking tax story and are proud to announce it, then 3 million costs from the forced contributions, but in Parliament are voting exactly against the concerns of those who have made these 150,000 signatures, I ask you whether you can still look into the political mirrors, ladies and gentlemen. – I say no! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, the tax animator Madethaner is now trying to spread sand into the eyes of the entrepreneurs with the Sandküberl, so that they fall blindly to the work and forget what is being done here on this government bank. And if you announce to the Styrian economy that there is a risk of saving, criticism of the budget consolidation plan, in the same breath, the points that we have to criticise liberals, with your forced members, if then the Economic Union is still being announced, government measures bring more bureaucracy, and if Madethaner has said today, the bureaucracy is finally being reduced, then I really wonder where the rabbit is in the pepper. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: After the initial enthusiasm in the public about the austerity measures, this sicker process is now so far that the citizens have become illegitimate. We will once again contribute to the fact that the truth becomes manifest and becomes clear who has once again betrayed the small and medium-sized enterprises at the altar of the socialist coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me quote Ronald Barazon, "Salzburger Nachrichten", editorial of 9. March on the savings package, on the government statement: "The spirit drive continues. The new savings package is a continuation of the helpless policy that SPÖ and ÖVP have been operating for years and which has driven state finances into the current crisis." The spirit journey continues, ladies and gentlemen! At any rate, we will ensure that light enters into this ghostway so that the citizens will see what idols have inspired them to do positive work in the service of the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8988	I call Mr Gaal. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9009	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Our country's and Europe's security challenges – already addressed today – have become more complex and comprehensive. Therefore, our policy focuses on finding comprehensive solutions to citizens' security. The Coalition Agreement between the two government parties fully takes this security-policy aspect into account. We have succeeded in initiating, with the agreed catalogue of measures, all those projects that contribute to strengthening the activity of the individual security body, i.e. the police officer, the gendarmen or criminal officials, and lead to the release of bureaucratic obstacles. It's just about less bureaucracy and more security. This means that tasks which do not have to be carried out exclusively by the safety executive are also excluded. We have already gone in this direction in the past. This has had a positive effect. We have more police on the street, which ultimately means more safety. The planned positions which will then be released in the order of approximately 1 000 positions can be assigned to the security police sector and to the activities of the executive. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the diverse police tasks also require a modern and appropriate training and training of the executives according to the international standard. This applies, of course, especially to the area of medium and higher safety management. Therefore, one of the most important reform projects of the Interior is the establishment of a security academy for the continuation and training of executives. This Convention also agreed that the border service under the Federal Armed Forces should be expanded consistently. 38 border surveillance posts are currently planned for the 1 260-kilometre EU-Ostaußen Limit. 15 are already open, and at the end of 1996, we will already have 32 such border surveillance posts in operation. It is not only because of the absence of internal border control within the European Union, but also because of its own interest that the monitoring and control of its external borders should be carried out effectively. In a relatively short time, since the beginning of October 1985, the border service can already refer to a considerable success statistics. I do not wish to mention that the assistant soldiers have also made a very important contribution to this success. I would therefore like to express my warm thanks to them from this point of view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another important issue, of course, is organized crime. An improved instrument is currently being created, taking into account the fundamental rights of citizens, so that the security bodies can be successful in the fight against organised crime. This fight against crime must, of course, be internationalized, because crime does not stop at the borders. We will therefore realize full participation in Europol during this legislative period. This will require a large number of measures in terms of personnel, technical, but also legal and organisational. A next priority, ladies and gentlemen, is the further development of migration and asylum policy and foreign employment policy. This is a solid basis for ensuring that in the future there will be secure and clear conditions in this very sensitive, difficult area. We will stick to controlled and regulated immigration. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, is defined by two principles: the principle of order – that is, that of ensuring compliance with our laws, and of course we fight against any form of illegality – and the principle of humanity, which, on the basis of our humanist tradition, ensures that those who need help receive it. Ladies and gentlemen! The execution of the right of foreigners is a particularly difficult and very responsible task, because decisions that will be taken here concern human existence. That is why the Ministry of the Interior has already led Mr Dr. One in autumn to begin a training project which, in addition to legal training, guarantees psychological training and ensures that employees are familiarized with international circumstances. As far as international matters are concerned, Austria will, of course, participate in a development towards a common European system for the management of refugee flows and their loads, as migration and flows of refugees can only be dealt with in joint responsibility. It must not be the case that only those countries closest to a crisis centre are making a contribution, but in a coordinated way Europe needs to look for a European solution and work on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue that has been discussed here in the House in recent months and years on the political agenda is the Causa Civil Service. It has now succeeded in achieving the final abolition of the examination of conscience by a Commission and in finding a mode that takes into account as far as possible a change of conscience. Ladies and gentlemen! This agreement represents for me a fundamental, modern and socially meaningful reform of civil service. This is a system that takes account of both the needs of national defence and those which, for reasons of conscience, reject the service of the military. I would like to point out here that we are still committed to the fact that civil service is not an alternative service. As in the past, as in the past, he should remain the exception from the rule, because we Social Democrats are committed to military national defence, general military service and the military system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Not one!]] As far as Europe is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the security policy path is also quite clear. Austria will not continue to join any military alliance such as the WEU or NATO. There is no need for this, and we have also found that the Federal Government can actually carry out its mission, namely to protect the borders of the Republic, independently. It thus fulfils the security interests of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The Labour Convention introduces a number of social-democratic demands to improve the efficiency of the German army. In the future, there will have to be operational, training, procurement of military principles. This will make it possible to provide these operations with greater transparency and comprehensibleness. Rationalisation reserves must be mobilised. In the Federal Army, as everywhere, intelligent savings are announced. The army needs a real administrative reform. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that planning sites will actually be saved, that they will not only be resold but, as I have said, reduced, and that we will also push for it. That is why we are concerned with the continuation of this so important administrative reform in the German army. We have very concrete ideas that we will discuss with the government partner, and I hope that there will be a meaningful relationship in this regard with regard to the reduction of planning posts, especially in the central offices, but also in the entire administrative area. This bloated administrative structure, of course, also binds a large system of operating costs. There is a particular need for a reduction. It will be possible to streamline the federal army's leadership structure with a peace organization and operational organisation adapted to the scope of the task. It is certainly in the area of the opportunities to reduce leadership levels and increase the number of cadres in the so important field of training. Then there is the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future the troops will receive a sufficient number of basic military servants for training. Another very important demand has been added to the government programme; it is about rethinking the dislodgment of the federal army: barracks, troop training and storage facilities must be seen as an overall concept. Of course, military strategic considerations, but also economic needs, must be taken into account: Basic service providers, cadre staff, infrastructure needs to be better coordinated in the future. These new barracks, camp and troop practice concepts are to be developed as quickly as possible, so that the federal army can separate itself from no longer needed objects and properties that are not economically necessary. Finally, I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen! In the coming years, a number of challenges will be met on the executive and on the federal army. The steps set out in the government programme provide a solid basis for meeting these challenges together in the interests and interests of the security of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9068	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr. Dr. Kier! I would draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9089	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The short time available to me is an increase in speaking time, and I would like to make a point at the top of my considerations: I have heard from many of my colleagues from the opposition parties some surprise and disappointment about the declaration of government, and I believe that this disappointment and wonder are very plausible, for the simple reason that both government parties have gone through programmes, statements, announcements and promises in the last election campaign and at the time when these announcements, statements and promises were made, they have already been shown to be incompatible. It was not possible at any time to reorganise the budget without any change in the tax revenue, and it was not possible at any time to change the social network in such a way as to restore it. The entire declaration of government is therefore marked by the feature of finding measures which appear to have been fulfilled on the side of the paper. For example, the tax rate has been left unchanged, but the tax bases have been radically changed, or a 50 000 S-Minimum-KÖST has been introduced, for example. For example, the steering action was also initiated, which will mean an early trigger of old-age unemployment – says: Bonus-Malus system. It was also said, for example, that two years remain – however, with a thorough analysis it is noted that there are only 1.5. All these things are then plausible, if one understands that if one makes promises and announcements that are not to be maintained, Potemkinian villages must be built instead of directly, honestly and immediately saying: That's right, and we need that! – It is quite clear that we are aware of the problem of unemployment on the one hand and the problem of early retirement on the other. In order to maintain a somewhat acceptable unemployment statistics, the following action is now envisaged: In the future, 4.9 billion Schilling from the labour market service sector will be transferred to the pension insurance compensation funds. That means: Pensions are financed with unemployment benefit. This, of course, has the positive effect that statistics actually have fewer unemployed people, but in reality they are financed at the expense of unemployment pensions. Here, therefore, a communicating vessel is built, which can fully claim that it is a Potemkin village, because only through this "right pocket – left pocket" does the labour market not change at all. At the conclusion of my considerations, I would like to say something that has been particularly unpleasant to me and which is particularly painful, namely in the field of works contracts. I would like to focus very briefly on this and ask colleagues from the government parties to listen to what I now have to say – yet it is not too late. I am entirely on the side of those who believe: Only because "unemployment contract" insists on it does not have to be anyone for a long time. There is a large zone where it is de facto free service contracts and therefore employment-like conditions or conditions that are usually called service relations – free service contracts or as the name is – which are circumvention transactions. It is completely legitimate to consider how to stop such things and to include these contracts in the social security obligation – you will find us completely by your side. However, this project would be much more credible, if not a certain exception in the ASVG – § 5 para. 1 C. 5 – Completely undamaged. This is the exception from the social security obligation for teachers at institutions primarily for adult education, in so far as this activity does not constitute a main occupation – and so on. In the last legislative period, we had the opportunity to send a question to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and to discuss it. We have received the detailed answer – I thank you once again for it – from which we can see that the experts who have participated in this paper – namely the experts from the large working chambers: The Federal Chamber and the Chamber of Labour – that these experts, who also develop teaching activities in the defined sense in the WIFIs and BFIs, remain excluded from the social insurance obligation. These are no circumvention transactions – free service contracts that call themselves "work contracts"; possibly these contracts are sometimes also called "work contracts", but that is indifferent to me – but these are clearly self-employed teachers, and they will continue to be excluded. Against this background, the entire work contract debate is a hypocritical debate because it continues to leave out the experts of the government who have participated here. One has apparently lived in the hope that this § 5 para. 1 C. 5 no one knows – in the uncertainty of the ASVG, the chance would have been there anyway. We have known, and that is why I say to you: The work contract debate will be delicate, there will be difficulties in demarcation – sometimes there may be a real contract of work, and there may then be disagreements with the social security institution, so I see in this area a wealth of demarcation problems that we will get. As long as these your own experts continue to take out of the social security obligation, I will not reduce the honesty of your efforts to ensure more solidarity and more justice here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9153	Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9175	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Do I have to go?]] Sorry! Ladies and gentlemen! – I have only seen on my left side of the government bank. So: Mrs Health Minister! Logically, it was the votes of the opposition that led the critical points of the new government agreement. But foreign comments sound different here. For example, in today's evening edition of tomorrow's "Kronen Zeitung" you can read: "Voices from abroad about coalition. ‘Austria as a model.’ A positive echo has found the new coalition agreement in the foreign media. An editorial confirms exemplary European behaviour to the Austrians." Klubobmann Khol has already called the "Frankfurter Allgemeine". I may mention another newspaper, the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", and quote further: "... a new beginning, which has succeeded in talking the plans together non- and nail-fest... That was done in the nine years... Vranitzky has been nailed several times in coalition agreements, but never so seriously dressed..." The new government has already documented yesterday with the Government Declaration, but also with the Coalition Convention, that it is really serious for the government to deal with our budget problems. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Government negotiations were aimed at reducing the 100 billion schilling of budget loss per year in the coming years. This, of course, requires the victims of all Austrians, including the farmers. Although these already have a significant burden to be borne by EU accession, the current low increase in the cost of living index is primarily due to the fact that last year prices of basic food were reduced and the price increase of the entire shopping cart fell to less than 2%. With less than 2% of the price increase, we are among the most stable countries in Europe. In particular, three topics have been discussed in the field of agriculture and forestry: Compliance with the Europe Agreement, which was agreed with farmers before the referendum, was fully guaranteed in budgetary terms. We have been able to make a quantum leap in Austria with environmental support – which has already been tailored by Mr Schwarzböck today – in terms of the ecologicalisation of agriculture. The main demand for which there was still a massive dispute last autumn, including between the coalition parties, could be settled by agreement in the new Government Convention: This Europe Agreement will be fully financed for the entire legislative period. A second area, which is very important to us farmers, is the one value. Farmers react very sensitively to the single value question, but the single value for agriculture is an important basis. Almost all tax benefits, as well as taxes and social security contributions, are based on this single value. That is why the demand to convert the single value into a transport value has insecured many farmers. It could now be agreed that the single value remains a profit value and that the income development in Austrian agriculture after accession to the EU is used as a basis for the next re-evaluation to be carried out every nine years under the Assessment Act. The Structural Adjustment Act also provides that farmers' incomes can be secured, especially in the mining sector, but also in other areas, through special assistance. Mr Kier referred to the work contracts before. For us too, this issue is very important, since the machine rings are in fact a form of work contracts. And the machine rings are the only way to achieve a de facto full mechanization in small-structured operations, as the neighbors help each other with the special machines. That this activity of rural neighbourhood aid was exempted from social security obligations was an important requirement of the peasantry, which was fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the area of social security, we have a particularly unfavourable structure in agriculture. We are always kept in mind that the public share of agricultural pensions is very high – as a percentage, but not when it comes to individual pensions. Most of the pensioners on our farms receive the pension from the pension insurance institution of the farmers, while the transferees often carry out an activity outside agriculture and therefore pay their pension contributions to other insurance institutions. If the approximately 2.5 billion Schillings, which are paid by the approximately 120 000 ancillary farmers at other insurance institutions, mainly the ASVG insurance, were to be paid to pension contributions, we would not have a poorer structure than the workers or employees. There is a question of justice because of the need to make a balance. Our pension is a generation contract in which the actively employed population, with its contributions and with its tax benefits, finances the night of life in retirement. For this purpose: In recent years, we have decided on a number of improvements: I would like to remind you of the care allowance, of the consideration given to the time of child rearing for women, but also of the farmers' pension in agriculture. It is now about making the budget so that we can secure these benefits for the future as well. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers in particular need consumer solidarity. If consumers use Austrian food mainly when purchasing, the jobs on farms and in the downstream food-processing economy are sustainablely secured. And never before have the farmers covered the table of the people as sumptuously and in such high quality as today. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] As farmers, however, we also have great interest in the fact that the food is produced as naturally as possible across Europe. We already have as many organic farmers as all the other 14 EU countries together in Austria. By this one recognizes the sensitivity of the Austrian farmers. We are very interested in the fact that no hormones and antibiotics are used in food production throughout Europe. Nor do we have a need for genetically modified seed, which would make consumers uncertain only if perhaps the resulting food were not marked accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Why then do the ÖVP members in the European Parliament vote in favour of the gene directives?]] We have also passed a genetic engineering law in this House, so that at all – not only agriculture, but also the medical sector – there are a lot of GMOs available – an orderly procedure is possible and science does not have completely free hand in this area. This genetic engineering law is intended to require certain procedures and controls from the legislator. [[Complementary of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] As Minister Molterer again belongs to the new government, we are confident that the interests of Austrian agriculture will also be represented accordingly in the new Federal Government. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry could actually be referred to as the Ministry of Life, because in its area food production, but also water law, water is also a food. In conclusion, farmers have the greatest interest in stable conditions and in orderly budgets, because key areas, especially the new agricultural policy, pose future challenges for farmers who need to be jointly supported by the two government parties. This also means, of course, that the services of farmers that go beyond the production of food, such as the conservation of the cultural landscape, the conservation of healthy soils and also healthy groundwater, are services for the general public which cannot be carried on the market. It is therefore necessary to find a different way of paying off these benefits to farmers. And I expect this federal government to take the problems of farmers seriously over the next four years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[18:22]] : I call Mrs Haidlmayr. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9265	Mr President. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The coalition agreement of the Federal Government clearly shows what we have feared people with disabilities in recent months: We have appeared twice in the Coalition Convention, which is where it is about changing the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, and where it is about promoting school integration. All the other measures that show that people who are disabled have been completely removed. We all know for a long time that these two passages, which concern the setting-up of the disabled and the integration of schools, are empty words and that in recent years there has been virtually no change in this direction to the positive. If you say, Mr Höchtl, today: Every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much! I ask you why you generally reject my request to increase the compensation tax to create jobs for disabled people that I always bring in. How can you reject this when it comes to jobs for disabled people? You're unbelievable. They may try to find jobs for so-called non-inhibited people, and you do not yet know how to do so. But with disabled people, you haven't got anything left for a long time. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] You can no longer believe in the area of school integration for years. All speak of school integration and say that school integration needs to be promoted. I'll show you a paper from the ÖVP, which shows the success balance of the XVIII. [[the speaker shows a brochure: "The success balance of the ÖVP"]] The legislative period is within. I'd like to read to you from this: "The success of the ÖVP: no integration of mentally disabled children in the AHS." – This is your school integration! They book it as a success that you have been able to prevent disabled people from coming to the regular school. We haven't believed you in a long time. And you have only achieved one thing for us disabled people with your so-called social security: that you are weakening us even more than we are already. They want us out of society again. The future orientation and security of the future that you have set out in your Coalition Agreement aim for the disabled and people in need of care right back to the nursing home, back to the alms care, away from the self-determined life. They have not been able in women's policy to safeguard members of the social security system, although the SPÖ has assured us for years that it is a very, very urgent concern to finally secure these persons under social security law. - Nothing happened! That's what I'm asking myself: How much are women really worth to you now if you have not even been able to secure caregivers with a minimum in all these years? In university and school, you have weakened disabled people as never before. They all know that disabled people need longer to study because they simply lack the framework conditions that disabled people also need at the universities. There are no sign interpreters at the university. There are also no corresponding reading aids for visually impaired people at the university. There is no equal opportunities for disabled people at the universities. And yet for disabled people, you see the same label as for people not disabled. They make it impossible for disabled people to ever study. Let's assume that, in most cases, disabled people have only the chance to go to a special school – not because they don't have the maturity to go to the regular school, but because there are only leftovers there, if there are any. Disabled people usually need to mature for a study in the form of evening matura or study qualification exam. On average, disabled people only enter their studies at the age of 24.9. They don't need to do that any more in the future because they just can't afford it anymore. – This too is a very targeted step to push us back from society, to miss out on education and not to let us get so far as to stand up for our own rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I and all of us have known this for decades: You were always right when disabled and in need of care people were good, sweet, good and grateful. With this methodology you want to bring us back in this direction, according to the head-stiffing method: We'll do everything for you, but please tell you how we do it. And you only have to be grateful for what we're doing to you in any way. But please don't make any claims. – You want to push disabled people back in this direction. They not only want to do it psychologically or by taking all the opportunities to study them, but also financially. It was not too stupid for you – I mentioned it in my last speech – to people in need of care who live in the home to reduce the care allowance to 569 p.m. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krammer: Pocket money!]] But that wasn't all. In the meantime, it is also clear that the countries retain another 10 percent of the pension. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not true! You always say wrong things!]] In Styria – Mr. Dr. Feurstein, listen to me! – it is already the case that people living in homes should receive only more than 10 percent of their pension as pocket money. Please, once you calculate what that means to disabled people or people who are forced to live in the home, you will see that this is such an inhumane act that you can only be ashamed of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: To inform you first, then talk!]] If you reduce the allowance for disabled people who are not entitled to pension or who have not yet obtained orphanage et cetera to 569 S per month, I ask you: How can Do you seriously represent that on this basis you want to lead disabled people to self-employment? – They want to push them back, but not lead them into independence. One more thing: It was only yesterday that it was shown how hostile people are being confronted with us disabled people. Apart from the fact that we are no longer mentioned, we are now also trying to avoid ourselves directly. Yesterday, when we were in front of Gate 4 of Parliament – many hundreds of disabled people! – and wanted to talk to the Members of Parliament and the Government, one has been looking for another gate where one has entered, regardless of the group. And when we took Gate 2, everyone entered the FPÖ entrance. – Just to avoid us just to avoid contact with disabled people! That's it. We're ready. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kröll: But that is not the case in general!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If we knew that, we wouldn't have let her in!]] It would be much easier for disabled people and we could better orient ourselves if you weren't constantly acting as if you were for us. Tell us that you want nothing more to do with us and that you can no longer afford and want to afford to disabled people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When you allowed Dr. Singer to conduct a debate on euthanasia in Austria at the time, we already felt what was happening to us. But we believed that our federal government was so fair not to discuss our right of life again. But the debate on euthanasia and the debate on death aid continue. And this is a targeted attack on people in need of care and disability! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I urge the Federal Government to support people with disabilities at least in such a way as to finally create a disability anti-discrimination law that brings us disabled people away from the constant bittering role and the role of alms recipients that we finally have rights so that we can also sue our demands and no longer depend on the good will of the well-seen and less well-seen people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Although all five political groups are committed to supporting a law on equal treatment for disabled persons or anti-discrimination, and have also jointly signed the petition application, they have not been prepared to do so – although all five parties are voting for it! – to formulate an own-initiative proposal. They weren't ready to do that. That is, a mackerel yes, but in the consequence no, disabled. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens and the disabled people in Austria are therefore calling on this Federal Government to remove from the savings measures to people with disabilities who are pushing you back into the home, and finally to grant us our right to self-determined life. It's up to us. It is just as important to us as you take it for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9415	Mrs Reitsamer is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9437	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Austrian population has understanding of balanced savings has shown itself at the latest on the election night; and yet, scepticism was told whether a government will come about. The latter was quite high: a 100-billion-billion-shilling consolidation package under the 1996 and 1997 budgets, socially balanced, sustainable, expenditure- and revenue-side. Making this happen was difficult at least. And the opposition parties – especially those on the very right edge – have refused, waited and hoped that nothing will happen after an initial shock – I just want to remember Mr Rumpold's appearance on television. And that they actually hoped nothing would happen was confirmed yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know the saying: Give is more blessed than taking. Mr Hostasch has already said: The effects of the package are hard. And we have known that it will be difficult to reach the acceptance of the population. However, it has proved helpful that we have already clearly taken a position in the election campaign. And we were very relieved and happy when the government agreement finally stood. At the latest since the first speaker's rounds, we know that we are on the road right now. The "F" chairman has accused our Federal Chancellor of general places. His general places, ladies and gentlemen, were not to be despised either, under the motto: We do not know anything exactly, but we are against it, and it is very important, of course, to insure people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only individual points have been taken out for each area. For example, one speaks of the pocket money of the nursing allowance levels. Obviously, until the "F" it has not yet been said that there is only one allowance for the care allowance level 3, ladies and gentlemen! But that doesn't matter. You're talking about income, too. It's a leaflet for me today... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Main thing, it's only 550 S!]] Please wait, Mrs Partik-Pablé, I would just like to explain it to you. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We already know! It's only 550 S!]] Yeah, but now let me talk. It's useless if you're artificially upset. You've already done that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, a leaflet has come into my hands today, where a 50 percent reduction in income has been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know very well that care money is a flat rate allowance for care-related benefits and nothing else. And if we always talk about these 550 s pocket money, which is right, we must also remember that home dwellers also receive a pocket money from their pensions, that they have the 13th and 14ths. It remains that, for new additions, this allowance has been reduced from 20 per cent of the care allowance level 3 to 10 per cent, and we confess to that. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] And if you're still yelling in there like this: I'm not going to let it stop me from finishing my speech here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No one wants that!]] Constructive suggestions from your side are mostly kept. But as the lawyer of the diligent Austrians you do not need to bring in such. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Look Please go beyond the edge of the plate. Other countries have the same, often more difficult problems, but they obviously have a more responsible opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you have only 550 S pocket money?]] We are always being verbally beaten to the government, level to the bottom of the drawer, and the call for constructive cooperation has gone unheard of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you have only 550 S pocket money?]] Let me also refer to Mr Petrovic's comments. She explained to us here what she did not find in the Government Declaration. However, it fails to note that many of the points she has complained about here are very well set out in the Coalition Convention. And it must also be pointed out that all that we have already known in the past, what we have already begun and what is quite positive is not to be listed here again. Mrs. Haidlmayr! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How much pocket money do you need?]] . I don't need any pocket money, Mrs. Partik-Pablé, because I'm in the happy situation not being a home-insin. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God! There you can be glad!]] I said I'm in the happy situation. Don't always turn the word in my mouth! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Yeah, it doesn't make any sense at all. Mrs Haidlmayr has said here that nothing would have happened for the disabled in the past. You can't see that either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Höbinger teacher.]] What I am discussing with Mrs Haidlmayr is that you, Mrs Staatsanwälter, should not do anything at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Well, let's say you're going all the way through!]] Or who's going through that? Mrs. Haidlmayr! I admit that it is still not enough. Nor do I think that we need to add to the acceptance and recognition of disabled people. I guess that's a matter of course. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not it!]] I admit it, it's still not enough, and you could still do more, but this "May it be a bit more?" We can't live up to it right now. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That is contrary to what you say! Stop your speech and sit in there!]] That we approve of a Euthanasia discussion that takes place somewhere, you can't really put that here. That really hit me very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's terrible! That's unbearable what you give of yourself!]] You were no less horrendous, but I listened to what you said and dealt with it. It might be appropriate for you to listen to me, too. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I'm already on a very different subject. Once you wake up, I can't help it. I see it as particularly important that in times of increasing... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you so aggressive, Mrs. Colleague?]] Mr Haigermoser! In Salzburg you are always friendly, limited to "Good day!" And never notice through special volume, and here you play like the great Zampano. – I can’t take that seriously for a long time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I said, ladies and gentlemen: I see it as particularly important that, in times of rising unemployment, labour market policy is being dealt with more intensively. A new offensive for growth and employment has been launched. We deal with the problems of underemployment and over-productivity. Austria's economic location is to be secured, further expanded and attractive by means of a bundle of measures. We are launching a qualification offensive, which is mainly designed to help women, and providing 600 million schilling for childcare facilities in order to better reconcile family and work. – I would have liked to have more, but the "Darf's a bit more?" I have to stop: In times when savings are announced, one has to stretch to the ceiling. It is also very positive to say that I am committed to the integration of unemployed people in relation to the passive provision of services and to the social security of telework and other atypical employment relationships. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget that social security in a country is always linked to the level of employment and that there is a need for constant reforming to preserve meaning, for people, and to adapt the constantly changing environment to eliminate abuses. In any case, we should stop playing different groups against each other, ladies and gentlemen. Some of the representatives of the opposition parties have adopted individual target groups with the result that they are now being blown up against each other. However, Austria's population will appreciate having a predictable, stable government that can start work as soon as possible. A special Gustopückerl, ladies and gentlemen, were today the attacks of Mrs Partik-Pablé against Mr Social Minister Hums. On the one hand, she accuses him of believing that he can maintain the pension system without deep cuts – he did not say so – and on the other hand, she beats us for just as deep cuts. She had said he was just a manager and had no visions that thinkers would have wished. In the "F" fraction there are thinkers enough. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God!]] They think about day and night, how they can make all that the government does. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The "F" president referred to the Government Declaration as "a machination of spiritual insolence". Insolence try to spread you, and it deeply insecures you because people no longer fully fall into your hate paroles. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The cheering riders!]] - I don't need to rejoice, and you don't need to mess. The Federal Chancellor said correctly yesterday – and it would be important for everyone to remember this –: The policy of the future will be to give people a guide, to open up to them the opportunities to develop themselves out of a good economic and social security, to perceive their own opportunities to take their fate into their own hands, but to know, in any case, not to be alone. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A red one!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: They have to do that with this government anyway!]] – You are only angry because you are not in the government, and may God prevent it for a long time, Mr. Haigermoser.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9775	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9796	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to spread despair like my previous speaker, but I am very pleased to speak to you for the first time today. [[Congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum.]] If you go to politics as a doctor, you must re-polate your entire thinking. A diagnosis is suddenly no longer a diagnosis, but only an empty convulsion that everything is okay, even if the patient is seriously ill. Treatment is no longer treatment, but only the introduction of new diseases due to incorrect indication. – That’s sad to see the policy of the government parties, seen from me from the uncontained position of a doctor. They did well to make a hippocratic oath for the benefit of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And you would do well to think about what you are voting on instead of blindly voting as elected representatives of the people on what is being presented to you by the government. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You swore to him yourself!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] I cannot spare you the accusation that you are an outdated generation of voting computers, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who wrote you this speech?]] I already write my speeches – for your information – all my life. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the end of last year, this house gave a clear sign of itself. A euphoric mood appeared, there were changing majority groups, and it was a free will formation to notice. It was parliamentarianism in pure culture. And what happened? – The SPÖ has taken the ÖVP into the political sweat box, and the idea of the coalition-free space has become the idea of the coalition-free firewood box. I wonder, Why are we sitting here when Mr Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor make public the fact that the House has no room for manoeuvre anyway? And I ask you whether you are prepared as a legislator to amend catastrophic proposals, or are you completely agreed to political capacity? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would not like to go on a confrontation course today in my speech of understanding. I do not want to confront you with the fact that there is no necessary structural or financial or awareness-changing measures in the health policy budget project. However, I do not wish to do wrong to you, we now have a structural commission in the programme. And I quote: The task of this Structural Commission is "to monitor the development of the Austrian health system". – Truly an Austrian case of "Commissionitis"! I want They also do not confront the fact that the introduction of service-oriented health care facilities has not been Termined again. And now I'm reading you a headline from the "Worker's Newspaper": The hospital reform is in the final round. When do you think it was written? - 1978! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The cap didn't read it! There he was demonstrating!]] I also do not want to confront you with the fact that you keep the extra-mural area as weak as possible and therefore do not benefit from a savings volume of two-digit billions. Nor do I want to confront you with the fact that, from 1987 to 1996, I compared it, nothing has changed in terms of content in the declarations of government of the Federal Chancellor. But where I cannot release you as a doctor from the responsibility, the abolition of the birth allowance, which is linked to the mother-child passport. I do not want to see any mother missing or wrong motivation that she does not want the best for her child, but in Austria only 5 percent of the population regularly use preventive medical examination programs. If we now put this on the pregnancy, on the newborn period, on the infant age, on the early childhood, then I can and must count as a responsible politician a breakdown in the prevention due to the removal of the birth grant. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But especially as a child radiologist and as a mother of a 9-year-old boy, it is very important to tell you that only the early detection of motor disturbances by continuous medical supervision and rapid application of promotion programs can really prevent consequential damage and that diseases that tend to be chronic, require early diagnosis and early therapy, so that parents and children will suffer a lot of suffering and ultimately the cost of society enormously. I can give you an example: A physical examination is planned in the mother-child passport in the second year of the child's life. This is the most important eye examination throughout life. - Why? – If you have a child who is weak on an eye, and you don’t recognize it early enough, then this eye is not promoted, and you eventually cause your child’s blindness. - Do you want to? I suppose no. But I do not only want to address your emotional side but also look at the cost page. If you invest a schilling in the precautions, you will have a savings effect up to 90 S in the medium term. A break-in in the mother-child passport examination would mean an increased care effort after missed care treatment, extensive hospital stays, high costs through follow-up operations and the suture special education promotion, because the mother-child passport can also reveal psychosocial abuses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With every schilling departure in the birth grant, you will have a loss in the next few years, which will often exceed it. Under the rule a wave of additional loads in the health sector comes upon you. There has already been a guilty speech by the family minister Moser, who has already rationalized you. She said, let's take a look at whether it really is and to what extent it really comes to a break-in in the mother-child passport investigation. However, you have the problem according to the motto: "Out of sight – out of mind!" already solved in your way. I see this policy as a consistent work against the health of our people, and I appeal to you: Enter You're looking for your conscience as a human being and politician before you take all the initiatives to correct a government proposal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you to: Forget Not that thousands of people are affected by whether you rise from your armchairs or not. Thank you. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[18:54]] : Mr Kiss has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9948	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it was another facet of the presentation, as I heard from the previous speaker. She was pleasant, sympathetic, competent, as I suppose. I would like to see more liberals of this level, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just you need it where you still called for the resignation of One at a press conference before the election!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I'm coming to talk about that. It is only patience, my colleague, that I am coming to speak exactly on it. I'm holding it with our clubman Andreas Khol, who said this morning... [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: What about the one now?]] I'm coming to talk. Patience! I'm going to deposit what's to be said here in the next few minutes. Please, listen to me! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have become a turning neck!]] So I think it is with the clubman of the ÖVP, with Mr Khol, who said this morning about the old new coalition between ÖVP and SPÖ that it is rather a reason. – Yes, I share this judgment. For me, too, it is not a marriage of love that I have to go into now, I also have the election mood in my back, and I know that of course I do not have a non-fractional relationship with the Interior Minister. One had – and still did not have. But the time of the election campaign is over. It is important to take stock, to look into the future, and my task is, among other things, to work with the responsible Minister of the Interior, as a contact person of the ÖVP, to let Austria have a more secure policy. That's my job, so I understand my function. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] If the colleagues of the Freedom Party believe that election campaign could be rewritten ad infinitum, then they are wrong, then they are wrong because election is just a very special time. – Now is the time of work, now is the time to put in concrete content, now is, among other things, the time when Kiss, for example, also harmonizes with One in a very factual, moderate and, as I believe, also constructive way for this country. I understand that by my task! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Who tells me that within the Freedom Party, in principle, everything is always lost and wasted? They themselves will show me the best proof that every party friend is not dealt with in a harmonious manner in principle. Sometimes you just feel that you have the hackl back in the cross. Let me also draw my line with the Minister of the Interior for the Interior in order to make the best policy for security in this country with him! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel enters the hall and goes to the government bank.]] I deliberately address it: We have two major areas of reform: the reform of the security executive and, of course, the whole area of foreign legislation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your partyobmann has the hack!]] – The party officer listens to me, he will confirm this, that's his line. In the field of security executive reform, what we have stated is that: It is important that the man on the street, the visible, present gendarm and police, be perceived – not the man in the ministry counts. There we have to slender down, there the forces must be bundled. It is important to make our country, our cities, our villages safer for the people. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Together with One!]] We plan, among other things, that we decentralize that we outsource tasks from the administration level from the Ministry, from the Gendarmerie Central Commando, from the Federal Police Directorates to the lowest bodies – in the budgetary area, in the human resources, in the structural area, in the organisational field, in the area of management. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How much will you donate for the "TAT leaf"?]] This is a form of decentralization that benefits our security executive, and I am convinced that measures to disseminate important, new, good for people can also be created, because those who give unnecessary supplies to other private institutions will be able to focus their efforts on the important tasks. If we have another large group of tasks ahead of us called the Security Academy, then this is something where the Minister can expect our full support. It must be pointed out that, as far as possible, the qualification of the security executive is based on the standard that we can see internationally that collegiateness is at all possible in the field of internationality that experience exchange, exchange of views, information exchange is being carried out. The Commission's We are all aware of the need to provide border service to a solution. Our border must be secure – that is a requirement within the European Union. The assistance of the Federal Government provides invaluable help. The fact that, of course, the border guards and customs guards also have to contribute to their share of a secure Austria to a high degree is self-evident. We also recognize the fact that, in addition to the fact that 1 000 planning posts in the field of the Ministry of the Interior – and I say quite deliberately: 1 000 planning sites in the field of the Ministry of the Interior – will be the victim of rationalization. Because one thing is clear: If the administration as a whole becomes slimmer in the field of public services if 11 000 planned posts have to be saved in the next few years and if the share of the department of the Ministry of the Interior is 1 000, then the administrative bodies have the central offices, then the persons in the ministry, in the General Army Central Command, have to believe in it in the Federal Police Directorates, but not the colleagues in the waxhouses, in the individual army posts, because they are there to ensure the security of the individual citizen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 7 500 at the post office and 1 000 at the executive are 8 500!]] We are aware that a very sensitive question for the next four years must also be asked for a new path which builds on old and, as I believe, very good foundations. We believe that the development of all foreign legislation, whether it is the Asylum Act, the Residence Act or the Xenophobia Act, must be made more human. Under this human access, we want to talk to each other over the next few weeks and months. We have to rethink the conditions of the pushy. However, we want the elimination of hardness not to be done in the form of permanent shortages by foreigners on the labour market. In this area too, it will be necessary, in a vote with the Foreign Employment Act, to go new, good, yes, for this country, as I believe, the best possible way. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I'm closing with our Federal Party officer Wolfgang Schüssel. This morning, in his speech, he spoke about the public service and meant that what Siegi Dohr has done, what the colleagues have brought within the union, was an exemplary attitude, because it is not so obvious if 16 billion schilling has to be saved. It is not so natural to say yes to saving – I have already mentioned – 11 000 planning sites. It is not so obvious that a trade unionist says that I am willing to accept zero-union rounds de facto, nor to do so where this is not their original task. That's not so obvious. That is why a great personal thanks also to the public service, to those responsible in the union. I am personally convinced – I know from the discussions with the people – that a country can appreciate well and happily, which has a trade union that is aware of its responsibility, which is shared with the people, and thus contributes to the recovery of this country in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10119	Mrs Bundesminister Krammer has now spoken. Please, Mrs. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10140	Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly, because the honourable Member – unfortunately she is not in the room – who gave her first speech has made a statement on health. I would like to make the offer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Pumberger, let us meet with her once and for all, so that we have the assurance that she will at least know where the competences lie, and that certain things will not be said which we simply have not been told. - That's to health. In principle, however, I would like to say something about the abolition of the birth grant: Of course, it is not pleasant for a government to sit down and say, we are sorry, we can't give birth aid anymore, we can't pay for the studies in the mother-child passport anymore. Only one thing you can, please, don't forget: The examinations themselves remain free, only the reward for having a mother or a father go to the doctor with the child will no longer exist. I can quote from today's newspaper a really unwarranted witness who said: "I feel sad if someone goes to the doctor only because of the money with his baby." And the one who said that is truly an unsuspecting witness – no one will be able to say she speaks the German Government after the word – that is, Mrs. Dr. Marina Markovich. I think they are very competent to speak in this regard. She's recognized as a doctor by many people. I think it is sad that this House is discussing this and is actually talking to mothers something that would not be necessary. That is what I would like to say. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10176	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. – honourable Member, the time to speak to you is exactly 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10198	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental policy is dealt with accordingly by the Liberals in this debate on the declaration of government, namely at the very end, but it is all the shorter. However, the tragedy of this declaration of government in the field of the environment - and you can read it yourself - is that, unfortunately, I cannot read it to you any more - is that the declaration of government alone contains fewer measures than the one written by the Minister for the Environment for the annual report of the Austrian CO2 Commission in 1994. The annual report contains more measures, more concrete measures, more visions than you will find in the Government Declaration. In fact, despite the striking words, the declaration of government has actually concluded environmental policy. For it is spoken of by ecological structural offensive, it is spoken of as being of the highest possible employment policy effects, but the truth looks different. If – and I only take the example of energy taxes on electricity and gas – these energy sources are being taxed, but not fossil fuels, for example, so that not extra easy, for example, heating oil, which has the same price as 22 years ago, that means de facto – and this should also be known by the ÖVP – a source for all biomass plants in rural areas. These are de facto turned off. That is, ladies and gentlemen, what is here called an ecological structural offensive is an offensive of the old structures, just as this coalition is just a new edition of an old one. Mr Kiss! Since my speaking time is over, I can tell you my conclusion: Warmed soups do not taste. It's similar with this coalition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10236	The next speaker is Mr Stippel. – Mr deputies, your speaking time is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10257	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I begin with a quote from yesterday's government statement by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky – I quote: "A common topic is the stronger link between basic research and applied research. This is not the last reason why the Federal Government wants to go new ways with the creation of a transport and science resort. The areas of innovation, technology, infrastructure, science, research and culture are interconnected here. At any rate, everything that is important for the future design of our country. These are areas that are well uplifted with courage and imagination in a Ministry of the Future and will trigger new impulses." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This clearly outlines how the research landscape in Austria will develop in the next few years. The research sector is also hardly affected by the savings measures of the Federal Government. Of course, expenditure could also be more involved in this area. We know that. But especially in Austria, with regard to R and D funding, we have a special problem, namely the ratio of public expenditure to private expenditure. The private sector is weakly trained, this shows a comparison with other countries. In Austria we have a fifty-fifty financing in the ratio I mentioned, while in comparable countries, such as Switzerland, Belgium or Finland, the private share is up to 70 percent. In addition, I regret that in Austria, we do not have military research, but in comparable countries, by means of military research, research expenditure is higher. The funds, the FWF, the FFF and the ITF are important instruments of research funding in Austria. The objectives of Austrian research policy must be: Set priorities, create synergies, increase efficiency and operate the internationalisation of our research landscape. On the other hand, it should be noted that an increased interaction between national and international decisions are taken by the development of our research. The next week in Brussels, the conference of the European Research Initiative, will be held this year's EUREKA conference. It is my honour to be able to represent the House at this conference. Austria is already benefiting very clearly from this European research initiative. About 300 research projects are co-financed through EUREKA. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The savings measures of the Federal Government are largely balanced and are therefore generally accepted by the population. Of course, there are groups there or there who think they are more burdened than others. This includes the entire university. We have noticed in the last few days that there is unrest in the university area, because it could and would be hard and hard in this area by the savings measures. However, I would like to say that in Austria there is still free access to all educational institutions, including universities and universities of art, which is the case in almost no other country. The same applies to the free study. But we must be aware that resources are scarce. In this context, however, we must ask ourselves the question: Do we actually use these scarce resources in our high schools, what is going on in space, what is going on, but also what is the time factor? I think we should really consider whether we should not come to the universities for a Trimester classification, so that we can also give quick students the opportunity if they apply for all the Trimesters to complete their studies more quickly than is the case at present. I also place a great deal of emphasis on the university study law, which has been strongly criticised in the assessment, but which is undisputed in its objective and which aims to ensure that, in the future in Austria, one can study shorter, faster, without suffering quality. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In order to relax the somewhat tense situation in higher education, discussions are currently taking place between the Federal Ministry of Education and the universities and universities of art in order to reduce existing real hardships. Within the framework of university autonomy, the individual universities, which are very differentiated, will decide for themselves how they use their resources. Then the individual universities can also reduce or even remove hardness that they meet specifically. In total, ladies and gentlemen, it is undisputed that all the groups of the population must contribute to the consolidation of the budget and thus to the introduction of Austria into European monetary union.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10325	The next speaker was Member Kröll. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10346	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too stand here for the first time at this speaker's desk of the House and I also benefit from the opportunity to take the floor from the view of the Federal Government, even from the point of view of a mayor, after more than 20 years of activity and also from the point of view of the municipal government, that is, our representation of interests, from the point of view of the municipalities. I very much regret that Mrs Haidlmayr is not here now. I am directly concerned, because one cannot say here in general that all the people have come in at a different door. For example, I have been dealing with the disabled for a very long time in front of the gate 2 because I have a real relationship with them and because much sympathy is shown to these people in particular in the congregations. It was an outrage I didn't expect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We, who are in close contact with the citizens every day, who hear their concerns and problems, know of course what the citizens think of this package and the necessary savings. But when you talk to people, they listen to you and understand that this is not a programme for decades, but a need to be able to lay something down later. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, it is the overall view, the overall responsibility, which is made the goal of political action for municipalities, countries or the State. And the 2 350 Austrian municipalities, the villages, the markets and the cities including Vienna with 136 000 employees – without Vienna, it is 78 200 staff, according to the latest statistics from 1993 – are an important factor in terms of jobs and for the whole of Austria. The municipalities are also the largest public investor. You will understand, therefore, that we have a great interest in creating resources through the savings measures so that investment can be re-established in the future. The latest available comprehensive figures for investment are from 1993. Gross public investment, i.e. federal government, countries and municipalities, amounted to 64.4 billion schilling in 1993. The municipalities without Vienna account for 33.8 billion, i.e. more than half of the total public investment, without Vienna. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They may measure that the municipality as an employer or as a client is also a key factor in building or civil engineering measures. The Government Declaration also rightly refers to the financial compensation. The principle of successful agreement on the extension and adjustment of this financial compensation by the end of 2000 is also the foundation for the financial order and for financial security of all its tasks that accompany people for a lifetime. This is, therefore, the third pillar of community policy in addition to community autonomy and self-government. In partnership between municipalities, countries and the Federal Government, everyone must also think about the convergence programme, decide, but also include the other partners in order to reduce the deficit of the public budget to the valid Maastricht criteria. This also means that for 0.3 percent of the gross domestic product, the municipalities with the countries have to bear 10 percent of the federal government, namely of 3 percent. This really needs great joint effort. Another important focus for the building of trust among local authorities is the planned consolidation mechanism. Today, our clubman has duly pointed out this element. And I also know what I'm talking about. The task is to take into account the financial impact of decisions and laws on the partners, which the Federal Government treats and takes into account for the municipalities for the countries or countries, as well as the state reform in the sense of federalism. The Federal Government, however, also offers incentives for the solution after many years of the KRAZAF agreement, in its declaration and in the financial compensation, by providing for money if an agreement can be reached. I therefore believe that this is of great importance to many municipalities and, of course, to the countries and to the carriers of our hospitals. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] The promotion of childcare with 600 million was addressed. This will certainly also lead to follow-up effects at local level. Settlement water, waste management, special needs are not only financial concerns, but also tasks in the human area of a community towards its citizens – that is, challenges for all of us. The financial arrangements by way of financial compensation are important, as has been said, yes, they are very important, but the community means more than just that a financial compensation is the only significant factor for the community. The municipality is primarily home to: Home for the Community citizen, for the citizens of the country, for the citizens of the state and for the citizens of Europe. And here the discussions take place, the encounters with the people, the discussions, the cooperation – voluntaryly or in the municipal offices, in the churches, in the associations –, the decisions of the citizens, which also serve as an incentive outside. The environment is a challenge and partnership agreements have long been path-accompanied until we come to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since the end of the war, the communities have made an important contribution to the construction of this flourishing state, our fatherland Austria, because we have been much more difficult at all times and in times when it has been more difficult than now – much, much more difficult! – have believed in this country and in this Austria, as an important foundation of construction in three principles: Municipalities, countries, Republic of. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is how we want to shape the future together. This probably does not require a Ministry of the Future, but the vision of the future of all of us and the motto: working in partnership between communities, countries and the federal government for a happy Austria in the heart of Europe. The communities are ready to do so. They have always been, they are a reliable partner, and the ÖVP with Vice-Chancellor Schüssel as the mayor party also brings reliability into this partnership. In this sense, we are responsible for the communities and for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10448	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10470	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The statement of government made yesterday by the Cabinet of Franz Vranitzky V was so impressive to me that I must speak as a skilled worker in today's debate on this declaration of government, because the skilled workers, the middle-income contributors, are the sufferers of this tax package, which the government has taken. The load package is workplace destructive and socially unbalanced. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The elections of your party and of your officials have also moved me to quote a letter that the Blünegger family has received from Mr Bundeskanzler, namely that the ÖVP with which the SPÖ now forms a common government is actually the part that makes up the retirement age by attacking the pension age, wants to reduce pensions by law and want everything possible. [[Call to the liberals: I'm not likely!]] - That's what this letter says. And the SPÖ guarantees my pension and wants to secure it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! All of this is election promises that are not being made and as is now being done is simply not fair. The pensioners are deceived here. The results of the elections have also shown that the pensioners have more and more given their voice to the SPÖ. But we will point out that this election promise has not been kept by your party. I recommend that you change your party name; You could change the word "social democratic" by saying that you have been "stripping democratic". That is, I believe, the more appropriate expression. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Why is this load package not socially balanced? – I have mentioned it, among other things: by abolishing the general amount of amortization, the burden of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary, the removal of special expenditure and the introduction of the famous energy tax. All of this is measures put in place by the government coalition, which will ease 26 billion schilling at the expense of workers and families. Now, of course, one more thing is added – that was said yesterday by the Federal Chancellor in his statement: All are to be taxed at once. Where is everyone being burdened at the same time? – With gross income of 13 000 S, the load is 2.9 percent, with a gross income of 30 000 S, the load is 3.5 percent, and with a gross income of 150 000 S, the load is 2.1 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:Go! Look at the news!]] Where's equal treatment? . I see, on the basis of these percentages, that the burden is not equally distributed. The fact is that the real small and medium-sized income of workers is being reduced. A loss of real wages also means job losses in our economic system. And the EU White Paper shows that 2% of economic growth is necessary in order to secure and maintain our standard of living. The Federal Chancellor has also promised to create jobs quickly. What are these SPÖ promises worth? – Mr Verkehrsminister Klima has already proved this in the Jenbach works in Tyrol. He said he wanted to secure the industrial site. He has secured it in that the vehicle industry of the Tirol industrial site no longer exists today. And what else did the Chancellor of the Federal Republic do for this? [[Call to the liberals: The ministry has been abandoned, that is the balance sheet!]] He has also promised that there will continue to be a vehicle industry in the Jenbach plants, but the 140 jobs he has guaranteed there are no longer available today. It is therefore certain that the quick promises of securing jobs in your party are nothing but soap bubbles. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And what about tourism, the pillar of our economy? What are your views on toll policy, ladies and gentlemen of the current coalition government? Faith You really think you've found the cure to stop budget holes with this vignette? You'll probably be fooled! All of Germany, all of Bavaria is driving over us today and saying: The Austrian Federal Government operates Raubrittertum by demanding toll on all motorways via Vignette. But what will actually happen? – In fact, it will happen that at Kufstein, no one will leave the motorway, that everyone will use the federal roads and the national roads to go to St. Johann Schi. This actually achieves exactly what we do not want: that through our places roll metal lavins. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: How in Italy! No one's driving on the highway!]] What if today the skiers come in from Bavaria over the beautiful Achental? – They will now enter the Achen valley, cross the Inn Valley and go to the Zillertal Ski. No one's using the highway anymore. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: As in Switzerland and Italy! There's no one driving on the highway either!]] This is your policy that you have to answer today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think you have done the right thing again with these measures. Because I'm talking about the drivers, there's a few more numbers to support: They take 50.7 billion schilling from the drivers as a whole – I do not want to mention insurance and mineral oil tax and all these points individually. According to ARBÖ, which is close to the Social Democrats, the return is only 18 billion schilling. That's where I'll find you again. The created number one of the nation is in this case the drivers. I believe that this declaration of government should also be used. This declaration of government is a declaration of bankruptcy of the Vranitzky and Schüssel courses. They like to talk about infrastructure investment, debureaucratisation, privatisation, export offensive, qualification offensive and – I have already heard this – education offensive. I can only tell you one thing: All of these are tags without content. We will inform the people about this – for the benefit of our state of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10583	I call Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10605	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have rarely heard as many words as I have just heard in the last five minutes, Mr Blünegger. When you talk about the energy tax, I only remember the proposal of the "F": 42 billion scrapping proposal on mass income! In fact, that would have been a bad thing. Furthermore, the following should be noted: They are talking about the unfair taxation of higher incomes, and they believe that with incomes of over 150 000 S, only 2.1 percent – as you say – will be exhausted. I tell you – and we should see this in a fair discussion – that you are, in fact, almost concealing the fact that the corresponding loss depreciation models need to be taken into account here, of course. And if you involve this, you get a 5.11 percent burden on these incomes. Thirdly, Mr Blünegger: Share your concern for jobs I hope you don't talk to your party leader, because he flew with the helicopter to the Hohenau Sugar Factory, held a big speech there for half an hour and then dived and was never seen again. [[Abg. Blünegger: What has the Federal Chancellor promised! I still have this in my ears today!]] In addition, we know what we have to say about your job-saving measures, because at the time, Mr Haider in the Obersteiermark has also walked around and has meant that one has to lock up these works, which are positive today, which are writing profits today and are of particular importance to the industrial site of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the Labour Convention is, of course, a reform that this government is planning and setting. The priorities are, among other things, the improvement of the economic location and the safeguarding of jobs. It is also necessary to go into the offensive in the construction of the infrastructure and in the development of infrastructure. On the one hand, the gap between the high-level road network is certainly a priority, which is to be financed by a comprehensive toll. Here, of course, I note that for us a vignette can only be a transitional solution and that a car vignette can only come if there is a truck-road pricing system at the same time. I would like to express this very clearly and clearly because we are in favour of the fact that the truth of costs in road transport is clearly established because we are against any cross-subsidisation by the car towards the truck and because we know that road use by the truck – which depends on the size of the truck – is 500 to 10 000 times higher than by a car. I would therefore like to announce to Mr Ditz our full support for the implementation, organisation and assurance of electronic debiting of ecopoints by 1997 in accordance with EU law, because this is the first step towards a road pricing system in the truck sector. Our special contribution in the infrastructure sector will have the expansion of the railway infrastructure. As a budget accompanying law, we will therefore also adopt a rail infrastructure financing law, ensuring that Austria's location security is ensured that trade is managed more ecologically in the ever-growing Europe and thus also in terms of employment policy. With around 12 billion Schilling investments in this area, 18 000 jobs can be secured or newly created. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very easy for us to achieve the cost truth by gradually internalising external costs by means of a fair toll and road pricing system and to enforce the relocation of freight transport from road to rail. A brief comment on the post: Here, I think, the SPÖ considerations have prevailed that by disseminating the post as an entire company, we also give this company the necessary opportunities for the future. It will be a major challenge for the employees of this company. Mr Bartenstein! They have been able to defend themselves for some time here, but have then joined in with a sensible consideration. We will have to see that, of course, posters have the highest quality services for customers in greater competition, that they will have to pay some 23 billion for the state in 1997 and only a sum of just under 12 billion. The state therefore de facto has approximately 9.5 billion in dividends and 4 billion in VAT. This also makes a very important contribution to fiscal consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to the end because some of my colleagues have spoken. Just one sentence. When Mr. Dr. Haider spoke of Munichhausen, when he at the same time meant that the State had to pay for item 21 billion in pension benefits, but due to a request from the 13th Chamber. In March 1996, it is stated that only 11 billion are needed for the year 1995, then it has lost either by 100 percent, or one has to assume that it is the one who is sluggishing on Munich's sphere through the area – and so it will probably be. Ladies and gentlemen! This government is one that has an ambitious programme that is trying to distribute the burden justly in the area of consolidation, thus opening up the country's opportunities for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10648	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10670	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We are truly living at an exciting time when much has been in motion in economic terms, but also in social terms. We already have more than a year of experience as a member of the European Union. If we remember a lot of what has been said here and today about sparingness, structural change, including the declaration of government, then we must say that these discussions are, of course, also taking place in the other countries of the EU. So it is not Austria-specific, but these discussions about structural reforms, sparingness are taking place throughout Europe. The least-favoured countries fulfil all Maastricht criteria. Therefore, one can also relativize the criticism of the opposition parties accordingly – one must even relativize them. But now to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the step was the right one. First: EU accession has brought a price reduction. The subject has already been dealt with by honourable Member Maderthaner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your That is quite clear. The inflation rate was 2.6% at the beginning of 1995. At the end of 1995, it was less than 2%. Secondly, In the field of agriculture, a balance can be drawn after a year. I can say this myself as one who comes from the agricultural sector that these payments have brought a tremendous boost from the European Union. The 1995 EU compensation programme alone has done a lot here. There were up to 2 billion schilling for the Burgenland alone. And the third – and I want to address that –: The Burgenland, as the youngest federal state, has become Objective 1 territory. Not because we are so beautiful, but because we have a recovery process in front of us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol, too!]] By 1999 we will be able to achieve EU funds of a total of 2.3 billion Schilling if we submit corresponding projects. That's what we did. The balance sheet can be seen. We've prepared a planning document. Based on this planning document, 488 projects have been submitted. If you were to evaluate these projects: Total around 30 billion schilling. We have already started many projects. There is only the risk that we will lose time, as I say now as citizens. We are in 1996. We have time until 1999. So there's still a lot to do here. But I am sure that we can use these possibilities to start this recovery process. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These opportunities for the Burgenland exist only because the Federal Government has already created the relevant framework conditions before and because, secondly, the foundations for the next four years in which we can continue our work are created. Thirdly, because there is good cooperation between ÖVP and SPÖ within the Burgenland government, and fourthly, I would like to say, because the Freemans do not make politics in the Burgenland, but are always and stoplessly occupied with Interna: Social funds, housing loans, disputes and so on. This also contributes to the good climate, because they cannot "shoot" at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! The next step is to deal with the Maastricht criteria and the state budget reorganisation. This means that over the next two years, 100 billion schillings will be saved rigorously to speed up reforms and prepare monetary union. It is precisely the monetary union that Austrians will also bring us a number of things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Let's just think about the currency fluctuations. Mr Van der Vring. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Of course, 20 percent means uncertainty for economic operators, stress, dampening of investment activities and slowing growth. That means that we will also benefit from this monetary union, which is being prepared, in many areas – foreign trade, tourism are just mentioned. It is therefore important that all the local authorities, municipalities, countries and, of course, the federal government – here I speak as mayor – be called to order. Mr Kröll has done it, so I do not need to repeat it again and can join it. We have a definition here, of course also contributing to the achievement of this Maastricht criterion in the field of deficits, and we are therefore committed to this government agreement as a good basis for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10725	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10747	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm only about five minutes away. Nevertheless, some comments on environmental policy, as reflected in this coalition agreement and in the announced government policy. First of all, I am quite satisfied because environmental policy is relatively well placed in this government agreement, in the areas of transport, agriculture, energy and in the chapter on the environment itself. I am absolutely clear that these are frameworks. Some have been more detailed. Some have some scope and are more likely to be understood as a statement of intent. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in the last few years, all know where to set particular priorities. There will certainly be a lot of work to be done on colleagues working in the environmental field. Perhaps some of the main points, how they seem to me to be important personally, were taken out. I believe that, in the sense of environmental protection, we have to use the existing and non-producible means as efficiently as possible – even in the sense of cost-benefit considerations – to possibly also carry out shifts, for example from the waste water area to the old load area. This has to be discussed in a reasonable manner. I am particularly concerned with what I call the more slender environmental protection, with regard to the perceptibility, the enforcement of laws and regulations, including the pooling of competences. It is therefore necessary to take into account both the cost to the economy and the public. We have a lot to do here without the need for quality for the environmentally impaired population to suffer. I think we can do this if we want to. However, as social democrats, we are also in principle committed to further progress towards the sustainable development of all sectors, in particular tourism, agriculture, energy supply and, above all, transport. Special attention should be paid to the development of the Austrian environmental industry, which can also be exported. And fourth priority, of course, very important: increased efforts in the international field. It is not a question of being a pioneer here, but we should be a model and a model and take advantage of all the opportunities in this area in the European Union and in other areas in order to increase equal opportunities in the interests of our exporting economy. I believe that this programme is capable of successfully developing Austrian environmental policy, as we are accustomed to continuing to remain in the top of industrial nations as an environmental model country. I think we'll succeed. Federal Minister! I offer you the best cooperation here on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10792	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10813	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A day of discussion on the Declaration of Government shows us that the debate, the debate, has been very factual, but shows us as new and old coalition parties that the opposition has not yet understood the change that this government has made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They compare the various declarations of government and say there and there: The choice of words is the same, you want to see the actions. Ladies and gentlemen! You will see the actions in the next days when you will discuss the accompanying laws with us in the committees. You see that these accompanying laws are already in place to be allocated to Parliament, which was not the case in earlier times. But you also see the new way of working together that there are concrete definitions and a specific savings programme, as we did not think in this form a year ago. I am very glad that we have now found a new quality of cooperation. This also proves to me that Mr Doppelmüller, who has now meant that we should deal with environmental procedural issues during this period of government, should concentrate on them, make them more manageable and faster to implement, namely for new plants in the environment. I believe that we should take one step further that the Bismarck statement does not still apply today: "The shyness of responsibility is a disease of our time." This quote of Bismarck is still valid today, but this federal government is not afraid of responsibility, and it is also intended to show no shame to the decision-makers in the individual authorities, district head teams et cetera in the investment process, but to take responsibility in the sense and interest of future investments in the environment and in the economic field. We're in a crisis situation. This crisis situation is a huge challenge and an opportunity for the future. The medium-sized economy is more than ever a backbone of our economy, and it is very likely that there is not only a lack of how many times opposition parties claim that access to entrepreneurship is so difficult. What we need is people who want to become entrepreneurs who want to take on responsibility. That's what it's all about. We must create the conditions for people to become self-employed and take on their own responsibility from the government. We need that for the future! And we can't do that by saying it's awfully terrible, but by giving courage. I believe that we can give this courage with these framework conditions which we will decide on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we have also adopted new approaches to training. We need to consider vocational training, life-long learning, as Mrs Gehrer said. We urgently need shorter study periods so that our young people have the same opportunities as their colleagues in the rest of Europe. Mr Scholten pointed out that he would submit a number of proposals before June. This also gives people hope that reforms will continue here. Only one thing we have to say: All these reforms go there and there only step by step. We have already taken many steps. We are also taking further steps, because we want to keep it as Fontane: "The success depends on courage."
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10868	The next speaker is Mr Edler. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10889	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that this Federal Government has courage to decide and courage to take action, but in the right direction, if it is to save yes, but balanced, but also save because it is necessary to maintain jobs and create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are currently having a lot of discussions in the firms, many colleagues say to us, yes, we are willing to make our contribution too, but our expectations are that jobs will also be safeguarded and, in particular, that new ones will be created. This is a very important challenge! This has been addressed several times today. I think one thing: That we bring together this joint consolidation package is a merit of the Federal Government, of both government parties, but also of the social partners in particular. I should like to point out here: Let us take a look out to the other countries, what happened in France. It was therefore essential that the social partners were involved from the outset. We have said yes, we want to take part and we will also be responsible for this in the interest of our fellow Members, whom we have to represent. Creating work – the model presented a few weeks ago – to create work for the future is important to us. Mr Parnigoni has already mentioned investment in infrastructure. That Federal Minister for Climate is now looking for new forms of funding in agreement with Federal Minister Ditz – we then have to consult a law here – is also a step in the right direction, because the private economy, which has been called upon by private individuals, is also bringing in and financing capital. Today, it cannot be that capital is maximized on the banks and, on the other hand, it will not be invested in the economy. We absolutely need investment. We need a good transport infrastructure for the good economic location in Austria. We can not only talk about shifting heavy traffic from road to rail. The first steps must be taken to improve rail transport and further measures. I think that's the challenge for us in the future. We have to do this together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, many things would still be worth noting, certainly also positive, which is contained in the Government Declaration. But there are still a few colleagues from my group. In order for them to have the opportunity to express their views, I would just like to say a final sentence today, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the Austrian population and the Austrian workforce are willing to contribute to the consolidation package. Let us work together in our political responsibility, whether in the government, whether in the opposition or in the social partners, to make it clear that this is a great opportunity for our home country Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10940	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10962	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me to speak briefly as a representative of the small and medium-sized economy. I would like to join the tradition of my previous speakers, who have kept themselves so short. I believe that the employment offensive and the expansion of Austria's economic location are one of the cornerstones of this government programme. And especially small and medium-sized enterprises are of course very well served and are affected by it very positively. If, for example, on page 6, the reference is to be made that the progressive division of labour results in the large units being increasingly broken down into smaller units and increasing proportions of production of small suppliers, then it must be said that this is certainly a very, very positive development for small business and trade. It is a concern of the small and medium-sized economy that exports are also more and more being carried out for small businesses. Very often, the small companies are afraid to enter the large European market. Here it is important to meet them. It is a pleasure that the means of building housing will be used to build more dwellings. The construction industry and the construction sector will certainly benefit greatly. I would also like to thank, like my previous speaker Mr Edler, the social partners for these negotiations, for the understanding that has been made here. I would also like to thank all the negotiators concerned. This has not yet been addressed or very little. It has been negotiated very often and for a very long time, and it has certainly not been a pleasure. That was only for the benefit of our country. You shouldn't underestimate that either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another point: the bonus malus system for older workers. I think that is a right measure. It is very important that older workers are also employed in firms. Because the system is financially quite interesting, it will certainly come to fruition. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude, perhaps as a succus, that: I also thought about many statements that the opposition has made here today. It is the business of the opposition that it must make negative criticism. However, I think that much more important is the fact that today there is great understanding among people outside of the state for the in-order conflict of finances. Today's reports in foreign newspapers are also very crucial, and there you can be adjusted as you want, because these are not boulevards, but they are viewed newspapers from the economic sector. We can be Austrians, the Federal Government can and can all be proud of the testimonies that will be issued to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11010	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 23 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11031	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot today, but I would like to make a few brief remarks. I was actually very touched last autumn by Parliament, by this House and by the way in which parliamentarianism in Austria can be possible: In the run-up to the National Council elections, there has been a parliament here that has truly revived parliamentary democracy. I was not here, but I was happy to see how there was a point of view here, that there really was a competition of ideas in this House and that there were mutual majority groups, and that apparently the will of the people was also enforced and implemented. [[Abg. Gatterer: But mental!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Whose Wille?]] But this delicate plant of parliamentary democracy was again rolled down by the red-black coalition with yesterday's declaration of government of the Federal Chancellor. I am really surprised that the ÖVP is playing there, whose dream it was that the coalition-free space should, so to speak, improve democratic culture in this country. Unfortunately, this has not occurred, because the EIA has unfortunately come to its knees on this question. Again: I'm surprised. Mr Schwarzböck said in his speech today that environmental policy in agriculture will play a greater role in the future. I must remind him that the environmental programme could not have been implemented in this form, if not the liberals with their votes had provided the majority for it. Your present coalition partner let you down at the time. I hope that you will not have to have similar experiences in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is actually depressing that a handful of people in Austria have this house so under control: The government, two clubmen, perhaps also the Presidents will make the decisions, but the Parliament itself is actually disabled because of the new coalition agreement. I am not talking so much about the opposition which you are patiently listening to, but of which you know from the outset that they will not be able to move in this House because of your government agreement, but rather I am talking about the other Members, representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ, who will probably not know on many issues that decisions have long been taken in other bodies. This political problem is worth showing once, because I believe that the delicate plant from autumn last year, which I spoke about earlier, should have earned a better future. This is not progress, it means a step back, a step towards Parliamentary Stone Age of this House. On agriculture, I would like to mention a few points which I have noticed. It is true that I had to leave the new coalition or government agreement for a very long time until I came across the chapter on agriculture. Agriculture is finally mentioned with a few lines just before the sport chapter, with a reference to the European Union in almost every second line. This shows that, unfortunately, the agricultural policy is no longer being made in Austria and in this House, but that any minor decision in this area is questioned by the European Union in Brussels. This also shows that the Minister sitting here on the Government Bank is, in principle, out of the way, no longer able to perceive, yes to perceive, or to perceive skills. This Minister, whom I personally appreciate, because I believe he is very competent, can hardly achieve an effect in Austria. He is actually a political care case because he is demise and is disabled in his political activity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This declaration of government also lacks the core of EU policy, which interests us in freedom. We are primarily concerned with reducing the centralist cut in European agricultural policy. We are concerned about the fact that the Brussels policy is being dissatisfied that what is already set out in the Maastricht Treaty under the principle of subsidiarity is actually exploited by the Federal Government. However, this is missing in the Government Convention. I believe that in the future jobs – including in agriculture – can only be secured if income policy becomes national competence, if the scope of the Austrian agricultural policy is more oriented to the principle of job security in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is an objective which we liberals will very much prescribe in the future. We will continue our agricultural policy activities, particularly in accordance with the principle of job security, but also with those of ecologicalisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11101	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11123	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As probably the last speaker of my group, let me say that the Government Declaration by Mr Bundeskanzler and the Coalition Agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP have rightly been called ambitious and forward-looking in many speeches. A sound and firm basis has been established for Austria to be able to cope with the leap as a modern, social and successful state at the turn of the millennium. I am particularly pleased that the new Coalition Agreement expressly mentions the Austrian peoples, highlights their positive contribution to the development and identity of our country, and stresses the need to ensure that the rights of the peoples are safeguarded and safeguarded. [[Call the liberals:Four lines! It's really thin!]] The proven institutions of the national councils will be given full support for the future. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that people's policy – the behaviour of ethnic groups and minorities – has increased significantly in Europe in recent years and is likely to continue to grow. For Austria, it is important that the generous national policy pursued in the past should continue to be established in the future. A modern, preventive ethnic group policy is therefore to be designed, a group policy that is in principle directed against every kind of nationalism. Because hardly a mental attitude has worsened in Europe in recent times than the poison of nationalism. I therefore believe that the Austrian People's Group Act now needs some further development in the changing period. We want to do so in accordance with the absolute principle that this development is being carried out in intensive and close dialogue with the organizations of the Austrian peoples. This was not always easy and will probably not be in the future, because, as we all know, there are different views within the Austrian groups about the direction of necessary further development. There is currently a situation where most of the Austrian national groups organisations see the focus of development in a clear appreciation of the national councils, in this context also planning to set up a conference of the chairmen of the national councils, and also expressing the desire to lay down in the People's Group Act a sort of target provision in favour of the Austrian ethnic groups. The other position to be seen in the ethnic group scene, however, which is more likely to be considered isolated, wants a new People's Group Basic Law, namely a People's Group Chamber and secured People's Group mandates in its own legislative body. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in principle we can talk about everything, but in the final effect it is more likely to be legitimate to implement what is carried out by the majority of the groups and what is in line with our constitution. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria confesses itself to its peoples and sees them as an enrichment for our country. I believe that the Austrian Federal Government has pursued a more generous group policy in recent years, and this high level of our group policy must be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11157	Mr Scheibner has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Speech time: 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11179	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of today's debate, there were two points that have been very interesting. One was presented by Mr Khol, the other by Mr Kostelka and by the Foreign Minister. On the one hand, it has said that this government is a future government, a new form of cooperation, which will in future regulate work for Austria in the future. The second report was a really interesting invitation to the opposition to deal together with the problems of the future, an invitation to the opposition, also to participate with requests and discussions at work here. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, we have seen what reality really looks like: The old faces can be seen on this government bank, from old concepts, just a little thinner, is the work agreement. This is the future orientation of the new government? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiermaier.]] I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: Why did we need these elections? That is exactly what you are asking, Mr President. Or? 10 billion schillings have cost the population to these elections, so it has stated Wifo chief Kramer. It is only because of 10 billion schilling that the Foreign Minister insists that the great coalition of old blows is the best way of working together. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Stop!]] 10 billion schilling at a time when we don't know where to get the money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second point: the type of cooperation. The non-coalition area was big in discussion, and we parliamentarians have all hoped that perhaps this could have had an example of a week before the elections. [[Call for the call.]] Yes, Mr President, this has pleased us – and I hope you too – that there have been free majority voting in this House for the first time, where every Member of Parliament, each group has voted on the content of a proposal and not on the basis of what perhaps some government representatives and clubmen have negotiated in the silent chamber. We would have hoped that it would be possible in the future to find parliamentary margin for real content to play a role. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ÖVP has also demanded it. Only: What is left of the required coalition-free space? For the 0.5 promille and the question of the homosexual paragraph, there may be a coalition-free space. In all other matters, as far as we have learned from newspaper reports, it is even prohibited to make joint applications with the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! Where does this offer of cooperation, which has been made up of this speaker's chair today, remain? Where is it that when you say that there are no joint votes with the opposition, there is no possible cooperation at all? Ladies and gentlemen! They're all just lip confessions. There will be even closer cooperation, even greater weakening of the two coalition parties. Mr Kostelka said it very openly: Do not measure us by the election promises, by the election programs. You, Mr Kostelka, said that these are quotations from the fairy tale book when we reminded you. We take note that your electoral programs are fairy tale books. We will always remind you, Mr Klubobmann. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few more words on security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, major announcements have also been made: This will be an important point in the future. We need to reorganise our national defence. We need to do more for the security of our country. There was the demand for a law of solidarity, the desire for full membership of the WEU and also for NATO cooperation. There are a number of press services by Foreign Minister Schüssel in this regard: once again, on the other hand, in January, on the other hand in February, in July before, in August, against them again. That's how consistent policy looks on the security question! The importance of this question is very clear in the statement of government: Half a paragraph, one line is dedicated to the defence of the state. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true! Read more! Keep going!]] "The Federal Government will therefore endeavour, in addition to an efficient military defence, to increase the Federal Government's willingness to make international efforts." That is to say, a half-rate for internal defence – otherwise all consequence and all concentration, Mr Kostelka, for international operations. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Browse through to the end!]] Minister To one, it seems that he really did, with his view that the German army, if not in one, can be phased out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka! You too seem to have persisted in this coalition – unfortunately to the detriment of this Republic! We see it in the budget, Mr President. There is still a need for savings. With 500 million schilling, however, the IFOR commitment to this budget will be made. They are starving our national defense. They also do not have the courage to finally re-establish the course in the field of international security policy: we are entering into security cooperation with all our rights and obligations. Now you're going a strange way: Although we assume the obligations of international action, we are not able to get under the protection of international organisations through full membership. Ladies and gentlemen! It has once again shown itself: Before you make big announcements, you're all very brave at the election speeches, but when it comes to really showing the flag, really also to stay consistent when it comes to your power potential, then you fall around again, and then everything stays with the old one. We take note of this with regret. But in the next few years, we will make all those you have already disappointed, in recent weeks, our representatives and represent them here in this House as before. And I can guarantee you one right now: You will still have to shivel at this declaration of government.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11296	Mr Wabl has now spoken. Please, honourable Member. Time left: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11317	Mr President. Federal Minister for the Environment and Family! Minister for Economic Affairs! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not want to speak again, but the Minister for the Environment has addressed a secret report, namely the secret report relating to the OECD report, which obviously only the Greens have received. Mr Umweltminister! I found this secret report freshly in front of me. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's not him!]] . I did not take the very thick report, otherwise you would have recognized it as your own report. The following is noted for the large "environmental pattern country" Austria: From 1980 to 1991, there was an increase in road traffic of 80.3 percent in Austria. Our "environmental pattern country" is referred to in the secret report, which only the Greens have received from the OECD, as great "environmentalists" in the field of transport. – I think only Greece is even worse. – I do not know how you see it, Minister of the Environment. When it comes to road traffic, referred to the individual, we are in the first place again at 8 100 kilometres – but from behind, Minister of the Environment! – Yes, I turn back and forth because you have been sitting there once, and now you have been sitting there recently. [[The speaker spoke in part in the back, turned to the government bank.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I'm doing a little bit of hard. Once you sit inside and out there. But that doesn't change the secret report. What are you doing? Minister! We have another problem you have raised here today. You have said that you do not recognize the legal status of the Greens in connection with Lambach and the Ennstal. I have already explained to you at one of the last meetings how Mr Pühringer's view of the law is and what ÖVP procedure he is carrying out there as an operator of a power plant. If you want to call it a legal conformation, a constitutional conformation – gifted! Stay with me! But to what happened in the Ennstal, I can only say: It has been lied here, it has also been manipulated here and it has been misreported by the politicians. – So it says at least one SPÖ countryman, I quote him literally – MP Dipl.-Ing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who?]] Getzinger, environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ-Steiermark –: "Politics and officials have lied several times in connection with this project." – I do not know if he meant you, Mr Bartenstein, or Mr Schüssel or Mr Ditz, or even Mr Hirschmann or Mrs Klasnic or Mr Krainer. I don't know who he meant with the politician who lied. I assume he won't have meant his own party friends. I don't think so because he's a decent social democrat, so he was also used as a fig leaf in Styria. Someone like that doesn't insult his own people. So he must have meant the EIA politicians! But you, Minister Bartenstein, have always said the truth in connection with the Ennstal. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I didn't say anything to the Ennstal!]] You didn't say anything? This is also happening, because you cannot lie in the sense of Mr Getzinger. [[Abg. Head: Now a light opens to him!]] Mr Umweltminister! If you want to do something in connection with the End Valley, you should represent here massively the variants. You should ask yourself if you're the liar. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals, Mr Kier and Mrs Heide Schmidt, should also consider which policy they represent in relation to the Ennstal, or whether they want to play the Wendehals, as Mr Getzinger points out. Mr Brno says that the Enns-Trasse must finally be carried out, but Mr Barmüller says: That would be an ecological shame. – You should eventually agree in your party bodies on what position you actually represent. But I think Mr Ditz wants to abolish this Federal Road Regulation as soon as possible – with your strong support, I assume – because, if he continues to implement this project, he will be in conflict with EU law, namely with the LIFE Funding Programme. There is a separate treaty that has been concluded by the Styria with the EU. There's exactly that part in there. You should think about that. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein and calls to the ÖVP.]] – Minister! You even know some things about it, that's great! You haven't met Lambach yet.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11416	It is time for the final sentence, Mr Deputies. The red light shines permanently.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11437	Thank you, Mr President. – Minister for the Environment! I would really ask you to assume your role as Minister for the Environment and not act as in the Lambbach case, otherwise you will find the disaster that you are being insulted by the environmental groups. You should really be on the trail to the liars this time. I don't know, maybe it was Mr. Khol, I have no idea who Mr. Getzinger meant, but that will certainly be clarified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11467	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We now come to two votes. - I ask you to take the seats. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades on the environmental importance of XX. legislative period. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on request for a deadline President Dr Heinrich Neisser: We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the Government Template 14 of the Supplements (Federal Constitutional Law Novelle 1996) for a period of 12 months. In July 1996, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-14-020-XX-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11535	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in motions 132/A to 142/A. Questions 282/J to 297/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.29 p.m. – that is, following this meeting. The meeting is closed.
