ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1445	I'd like to take a seat. I can warmly welcome the ladies and gentlemen and open the 14th. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, MEPs are reported Kröll, Dr. Schwimmer and Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1476	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Mr. Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Scholten is represented by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Christa Krammer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1503	With regard to the negotiating items obtained, I refer to the written notice, which according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have been distributed in the House. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1597	It is my proposal to the Budget Committee for Reporting on the Government Template 72 of the Supplements, Structural Adjustment Act 1996, a deadline of up to 15. The Commission has decided to set up a working party on the basis of a report from the Commission on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. Hiezu is that of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 4 p.m. The vote on this motion for a deadline will also be taken following this brief debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1622	It is also proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 as well as points 3 to 5 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1643	As far as speaking times are concerned, the term of office of the President was agreed on the subsequent classification. The duration of the debate on Agenda items 1 and 2 will be set at 11 "Vienna hours", so that the following limits will be set for speaking time: SPÖ 165 minutes, ÖVP 154 minutes, Freedom 143 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens per 99 minutes. If a member of the Federal Government speaks for more than 20 minutes, the extent of the exceedance of these 20 minutes will be taken into account in the speaking time of the respective political groups. In the joint debate on points 3 to 5, one speaker per group is to speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes. I ask the House whether there are any objections to this proposal. – This is not the case and is therefore decided. 1. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1996, including investments (70 and 70 of the Supplements) 2. Point First reading of the Government template concerning the Federal Finance Act for the year 1997 and Appendices (71 and 71 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1691	We go into the agenda and get to points 1 and 2: First reading of the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for 1996, including investments (70 and 70 of the supplements) and first reading of the Government's draft on the Federal Finance Act for 1997 (71 and 71 of the Supplements). The speaking times have just been announced. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mr Dr. Novotny. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1719	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The budget debate with which we are now beginning is, in many respects, a special one. In the second Republic, there has never been the case that two budgets are being discussed at once, and this consolidation involves a volume of quantities which have never been established, both absolute and percentage of gross domestic product. It must be noted that behind this consolidation approach lies a huge political and administrative achievement. I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of my group, all those who have contributed to these difficult negotiations. This applies to the negotiating team under the leadership of Chancellor Vranitzky and the proven "financial duo" climate and ditz, but this applies equally to all officials who really worked there with great effort. I think we should be grateful to parliamentarians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the form of the budget debate – and this will still be discussed today – we are certainly in a special situation this year, a special situation, which is not least due to the re-election in 1995, - I believe for not very necessary reasons - a new election, which has not enabled us to decide on the 1996 budget and, of course, has also been delayed. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] This means that we are now under considerable pressure of time, a time pressure which is to be noted in particular with regard to the budget accompanying legislation, which, not least, must be said openly, has had an effect in an extremely short period of assessment, a time pressure which, in fact, has not been applied to the government and ministerial bureaucracy in a significant way, which must also be stated openly. In the interests of the economy, we accept that this is no different from economic considerations. It is clear to us, however, that this cannot be a model for future budget creations and future legislative procedures, and I am convinced that the parliamentary level in this context can again be strong – yes, even stronger! – Weight will be given to him according to the Constitution. [[Abg. Böhacker: Every year again!]] Not "all years again"! We are in a special situation, and this must be taken into account in the interests of the country, but it should remain a special situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The figures themselves were presented yesterday by the Minister of Finance. I would therefore like to focus on a political and economic assessment. First – and this is a question that is asked very often –: Is this consolidation package sufficient and therefore a clear line for the future? . I mean, as far as the budget figures are concerned, they are calculated solidly. You will be aware that we have only a small amount of privatisation revenue for 1996 and are not included in the budget for 1997 and can therefore assume that additional reserves are available. There is no doubt that the revenue estimate has also been carried out more cautiously. As far as the medium-term trend is concerned, we are seeing a very clear restructuring which will ensure that the budget deficit will not exceed 2.7% of the gross domestic product at the end of 1997. This means that from this point on one can actually continue to develop the budget and that no new special savings will be necessary. I therefore believe that this budget has succeeded in giving the Austrians, but also foreign investors, a very clear perspective on security in terms of important foundations of Austrian economic development. And it is gratifying that most people in Austria also see the results of opinion polls as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, we must be quick to note that what we have heard from the opposition parties so far was not really a meaningful economic alternative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] We'd love to be surprised if you brought in other people here today. So far, it is true – and we must say that this applies to all three opposition parties, but specifically to the liberals, you are right now – that, although there are a large number of proposals which are opposed to revenue increases, a large number of proposals which are opposed to expenditure cuts but are not intended to mean a higher budget deficit together. – And that is exactly what we do not want for Austria, but what would be associated with your proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must be said quite clearly: Of course, it would be politically more pleasant to go this more comfortable way, which the opposition here sometimes suggests, but one must also be aware: The result would be that next year we will have to bind the next package of savings, and that is not what we want. We want clear structures for the future of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! One particular aspect that Mr Financier addressed yesterday and which affects us all, since most of us are also politically active in municipalities or countries, is the relationship between the federal, state and local authorities. In the overall view of debt development, we must always assume that the overall economic debt is the relevant size. It has been agreed with countries and municipalities to limit the debt of 0.3% of the gross domestic product, which means a significant restriction, because we now have to assume that the net debt of the countries and communities is about 0.6 percent. That is to say, we will also face very difficult tasks at national and local level, with the federal government helping in that as countries and communities in the future will have more revenue of about 10 billion schilling. A new financial compensation has been completed which gives countries and municipalities security in terms of their revenue development. But it must be said quite clearly: Overall, at all levels – not only at federal level, but also at national and local level – we will need higher cost awareness, which has two aspects. The first aspect: The Federal Government must take into account the total cost not only for the federal government, but also for the countries, for the municipalities and, of course, for taxpayers and citizens as a whole. I would like to point out to you that the Social Democratic Party, as one of the first initiatives in this Parliament, has made a request for the introduction of a parliamentary Committee on Budgets, and we very much hope that this will be a useful tool for getting to grips with the actual overall cost development associated with individual laws. I would therefore like to appeal to all of you here in the House to support this proposal accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A second aspect concerns the question of a reorganisation of federalism in Austria. We have also put forward proposals to this end. I would like to say quite frankly: The reorganisation of federalism in Austria cannot take place without a simultaneous cost discussion. If we in Austria complain that there is too much public administration costs, it is wrong to see this as a problem for public servants; that is just the symptom. Some of the causes are structures for which we, as politicians, are responsible – not least in a federal system – and which we must take care of. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on a question which we are asked in many discussions, namely what the distribution effect of this savings package looks like. Is this savings package fair? This was not least one of those points that led to a significant discussion. It's clear: The approach to plan consolidation from the expenditure side, for example, would have meant that the most massive cuts – particularly in the social field, especially in the pension sector – would have been necessary. We have therefore always – and especially we Social Democrats – worked to ensure that budget consolidation is achieved through a balanced mix of expenditure-side and revenue-side measures. And I mean, we agreed on a model that actually leads to a corresponding social balance. I think it's important to see the overall picture. It is generally recognized that this savings package affects everyone and everyone. So the situation that happened earlier that someone could say: Please, this is a wonderful package, because it does not concern me at all!, it is clearly excluded. The second question is: How is the individual affected? – There has been a discussion in this regard, based on an opinion by the President of the Chamber of Labour of Tyrol, who meant that it was: the higher the income, the lower the percentage of the contribution that the individual must make to this savings package. This statement is wrong in that it is incomplete. [[Abg. May. Main: No!]] It only takes into account the direct effects of the tariffs. We have, however, a number of measures in this savings package, for example in relation to loss depreciation companies, in relation to tax-making possibilities for particularly high income groups, and if you take this into account, you will find a load-making process which is very likely to be designed to make a higher contribution to people who have high incomes as a percentage, as is the case with a burden on economic performance. We can therefore see clearly: On the one hand, this savings package is economically effective, but it is also socially balanced, and that was a very important point for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is, of course, already the phenomenon – and we are not blind to that – that there can be loads from this savings package in individual areas. There is a need to be careful so that possible hardships can be mitigated accordingly. We currently have a discussion on the subject of universities – both the assistants and the students. The development is to try to compensate specifically for social weaknesses. It's an illusion to say every student, every student is socially weak. That is obviously not the case. But where there is indeed a social need, we will provide for a corresponding charge. For example, a social fund is provided for the free movement of students. We hope that in this way, especially those who need it, they do not actually have a burden, while those who can afford it make a greater contribution. In any case, we will be closely monitoring developments here – as in other areas, for example in the family sector. Of course, we have to say quite openly: A consolidation of 100 billion schilling is not a small thing. We have never claimed that there is a painless consolidation. What we want to achieve is a consolidation which is socially balanced and which fulfils the economic needs from which we will all benefit in the future. In all the individual discussions that exist, however, we must not forget why we do the whole thing: We are doing it in order to ensure a sound financial structure for this state in the long term, so that it can continue to carry out its social tasks in a proper manner so that it can maintain its employment policy in order to enable it to fulfil its tasks to provide internal security, to provide external security, to education in the infrastructure sector. These are the purposes we want to achieve with this consolidation programme. These purposes will be met with the two budget estimates, and we will therefore give our support to these budget estimates.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1823	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e1844	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: But Pepi! That's the budget!]] We have for the first time to debate two budgets in the history of the Second Republic, namely for 1996 and 1997 because we are in an extraordinary situation. And politics is required when extraordinary challenges are raised to politics. We are willing to accept these challenges, offer solutions and implement them. The Austrians expect this from a solid, serious government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Politics does not mean to escape problems. Politics does not mean to take a bird-state hold: see nothing, hear nothing, feel nothing, and let the evil break in a few years later, but politics means finding difficulties in time and meeting them with a clear answer. What we propose with this consolidation in 1996/97 is the clear answer, and I believe that the clear answer is also considered to be reasonable, responsible by the majority of Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I say very openly: We have already seen these challenges clearly by the People's Party last year and these new elections have become necessary because both coalition groups have not jointly seen this as a challenge. [[Abg. Scheibner: Especially before the elections!]] However, the People's Party wanted to give a clear answer to this challenge, while no agreement existed in the coalition at that time on this clear answer. [[Abg. Wabl: For years you have covered dizziness budgets!]] It is also intended to clarify the history of the last months. We are glad that, after the collapse of the register, where a need for consolidation of 100 billion schilling has been identified together, this solution has now been developed by all groups. This solution can lead to a serious discussion in the population. In fact, the population is much more willing to carry reasonable timely solutions together than to disappear over the problems whose negative effects in one or two years would have a much greater impact on the population. We have found this answer together. We stand by this and we will not only decide on our projects on the paper, but we will also implement them. This is an answer given by the People's Party together with the coalition partner today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say very openly to you from the opposition parties: We ÖVP Members and SPÖ Members know that a reduction in expenditure or a tax correction, which leads to increases, to more taxes, is of course not a joyous matter. Consolidation is not a policy of joy, but a policy of sense of responsibility! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Every single measure that reduces transfers or increases taxes is painful. We all understand this. We know, of course, that each of these measures, which are necessary, is causing pain. But it is better to undertake this consolidation in 1996 and 1997 so that we can have a re-arranged, financially sound household relationship starting in 1998, a basis on which we can build and with which we can predict a development that will be safe for people over the next few years. This is the People's Party's answer, which is our government partner's answer to these problems. I invite the opposition parties to finally take away from their only-criticism attitude, to submit alternatively from me on proposals for solutions, but finally to assume responsibility as well. Everything else is irresponsible! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to Mr Haigermoser and his colleagues: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Pepi! I didn't say anything at all!]] What we are doing here is to consolidate what is provided for in savings policy, not something that is self-evident. Saving is not a self-interest, but saving is a means of achieving clear, overarching goals. With this consolidated budgetary policy, we want to ensure that existing jobs are restored and additional jobs are created. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many, Pepi?]] We do not want to go in a direction where, through increasing debt, we must assume an ever higher level of burden, of higher taxes on Austrians in the coming years. We do not want us to have fewer and fewer possibilities for productive investment through the figures of increasing interest rates. We do not want to endanger the competitiveness of the Austrian economy, the workers and the employers and, finally, do not endanger what we have built up in decades of partnership work, namely a system of social market economy, in which there is a high degree of security for the individual. That's our goal: We want to be safe and not insecure. This is a clear goal of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have also learned in the discussions with the various economic scientists that this process is possible in a reasonable and labour market policy manner. We are not only seeking a recovery of the budget, but also, in the same way, an offensive labour market policy, an offensive employment policy, and we are also bringing in the corresponding proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have long discussed how we can promote the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises faster, better, more targeted. We will now realize this by promoting many small businesses, and thus we will also create jobs, because each newly created company creates, on average, three to five jobs in the first few years. We say a clear yes to more businesses, because there is a greater number of jobs, and this will also bring about what we need as an employment offensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also say that there is an offensive in the field of part-time work, because many people, especially women, want to combine work and family, but also older workers, want to work less than 40 hours a week. Why should not such a need be met with politics? We believe that with an offensive in the part-time field, we have the opportunity to bring many people into the labour market in addition and to meet their needs. We want to live up to the desire of people to link up work and child training and to bring more people into the labour market at the same time. That is why we are talking about an offensive towards part-time work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because news has come today that the ÖVP has suddenly been in favour of a greater number of working hours, I say to you very openly: We do not want to and will not extend working time, but we say a clear yes to more availability of the individual worker over his working time, to more classification possibilities for the worker, and we say a clear no to extend working time! This is a clear position which we have and which we will also be represented in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Main: This is social reduction in pure culture!]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You've never been concerned about making proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2003	Ladies and gentlemen! The poor stenographs! How are they to write down all that is called at the same time? [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't need to write it down! It's enough if the hell hears it!]] The next speaker is from the liberals, and he can then explain your point of view. Mr Höchtl is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2030	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Free Party! I expect the next of you, who comes down here, to finally bring a sensible idea, a responsible idea of consolidation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The in-between yelling, the cracking, the setting-up of proposals that we are bringing is not politics, but that is destructive behavior. The Austrians do not expect this from responsible politicians. This is what you have said today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Superinstructor!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have made a clear commitment to these budgets in 1996 and 1997 in so far as we see challenges. 100 billion schilling of consolidation needs are a lot. But we know that no one feels except that they all make their contribution if they do. And the former Minister of Finance Androsch can't go here this time and say: I'm not affected by the savings measures! So there's no such thing this time: The target accuracy has been achieved, each of which contributes according to its performance. So we can just distribute the burdens and secure the future for people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: (favoring) Bravo! That's good!]] Politics is not only dealing with existing problems of the present, but politics is also the preparation of the design of the future. I am convinced that, if we carry out this recovery in 1996 and 1997, we will be able to give hope again, as a result of the development of the tax revenue in the following years, that we will be able to achieve more justice for families and a discharge of the individual taxpayers through the forthcoming tax reform. That's something the individual expects. We can, with a recovery of the budget, with an employment offensive and with the prospect of a more tax revenue, have the opportunity to re-establish tax reductions, to create what we believe to be a foundation for the future for Austria. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's the height!]] The 1996 and 1997 budgets and the additional policy measures guarantee that we are on a good future path. We from the Austrian People's Party say yes to this way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2121	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. He's got the floor. – And now the same is true with reverse signs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2142	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have assumed that after the last week's government statement or after yesterday's budget speech by the Neo Finance Minister, the fairy tale is over. But to what Mr Höchtl has listed here today as the first speaker of the "Economic Party" Austrian People's Party, I can only say one thing: not even ignore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! We didn't expect any budget wonders here. But we have expected something else – and that is the least we can expect here in the House – because you finally reveal the truth about the budget figures and do not carry out a continuation of the dwindling budgets over the last ten years. That's the least the high house has to claim. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This time, we have experienced three premieres at the budget: It was the first budget speech of the Minister of Finance's climate, for the first time two budgets were negotiated at the same time, because one was unable to achieve a budget in 1996 – one has needed almost a year for it and a new election – and for the first time one requires citizens to carry a tax package. It would have been very high time to tell citizens the full truth about the budgetary situation, the full truth about public debt, and how economic development should continue in the next few years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But instead, a fireworks of the rough sketches has found its continuous continuation – again accompanied by the partial refusals of reality that are symptomatic for this great coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One of the few sentences announced by the representatives of the government parties in the last few days and which we can fully sign with the liberals – and only for this sentence! – by "Future Minister" Rudolf Scholten. When schools on the TV show "On the matter" I have found that the situation for number games is too serious, I can only agree and at the same time ask the Minister of Finance why he does not adhere to the Scottish findings. Why don't you stick to it? Why do you try to save yourself with old, outdated, beautiful, simply wrong numbers about your first budget debate? Why did you say to the House yesterday that the package of measures was made up of two-thirds of savings and a third of expenditure, although you know very well that this statement lacks any basis? It is a really saddened measure of unfrozenness to present positions in the expenditure-side budget measures – such as license receipts for the post office, corporate tax prepayments for the post office, local tax for the post office, income tax for the post office. These are expenditure savings – expenditure savings in a scale of 13.5 billion schilling for the years 1996 and 1997. Further positions in the "expenditure savings" are for you the increase in social security contributions for farmers and for self-employed in the order of 1.3 billion. If you just subtract these two figures from the 64 billion you want to save on the expenditure side... – It would be very pleasant, Mr Finanzminister, if you would listen to me. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka speaks to Federal Minister Dr. Klima.]] I think it is a little unfair that you are talking here with the Clubman of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is an unsitting!]] Mr Finanzminister! This alone shows how you are doing, and this also shows the ignorance of the clubman Kostelka, who then said after the election in 1994: We will reorganise expenditure in a scale of 280 billion schilling. None of that happened. [[Inter-remark of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Please sit in your seat, because it is really unfair to have a budget debate with the Minister of Finance! [[Complaints with the liberals]] But that fits your style. [[Violent calls to the liberals, including: Kostelka gone! To the square!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka goes to his place.]] It is strange that here in the House, the stupid remarks usually come only from one corner, namely from yours. [[The speaker points to the SPÖ seats.]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let us take a closer look at the figures, Minister of Finance. They want to make it clear that the increase in social security contributions for farmers and traders in the order of 1.3 billion is part of the budget recovery. But also higher license receipts on the post, corporate tax prepayments or profit deductions in the order of 13.5 billion schilling are included in the expenditure-side budget recovery. This results in a package of 15 billion schilling. Mr Finanzminister! According to the Financial Balance Act, in the 1996 and 1997 budget years an additional tax revenue from the budget year 1996/97 of 79.9 billion Schilling resulted. With the properly booked 15 billion schillings, you will therefore come to a revenue-side load of 95 billion schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl talks to Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Get out when a SPÖ speaker speaks!]] But I suppose you're not interested. In the case of savings on the expenditure side They are therefore not up to 66.7 billion, but at best to around 50 billion schilling. - That's your "budget truth." They want to make the Austrian population aware: a third revenue-side, two thirds of expenditure-side budget adjustment – but the ratio is exactly the other way round. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the meantime, we are no longer alone with the statement that the ratios made by you in respect of the budget adjustment are not in order. Even the Institute of Economic Research, which was involved in the preparation of the cash register and in the preparation of the budget, is already talking at least of a ratio of 1:1. As a result of the revision of the economic forecasts, the economics expert at Wifo, Georg Busch, found that this ratio actually reached 1:1. What will this ratio look like at the end of the legislative period? This leads me to the budget lie No. 1 des Cabinets Vranitzky V. They have always assumed that there is a need for consolidation of 100 billion schilling. But now you get 79.9 billion schilling on the revenue side – this is the result of the financial compensation papers – and through the wrong-booked revenue 15 billion schilling, so 95 billion schilling in total. This, together with the 50 billion savings in expenditure, results in a need for consolidation of 145 billion schilling and not 100 billion schilling. So that's the lie. As you deal with these figures, as the Cassascending looks, we have already seen when trying to create the budget for the year 1996 under your predecessor Staribacher. First it said: The gap is 30 billion schilling! The social partners then tried to complete a consolidation package of 30 billion. State Secretary Ditz said: The 30 billion are not voting, there will be 50 billion! Staribacher: No, it's 30 billion! As a result, the Chancellor had to admit: It's 50 billion! Then you made a casserole. But you are not even able to make a real cash crash, to actually determine the level of debt. You don't even have an open post account in individual ministries, you don't know how high the administrative debt is. You don't know how high the supplier liabilities are. How are you supposed to make a case crash, how can you say that you are missing 100 billion schilling? They probably appreciated it. It is now 145 billion! That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You really have a strange way of presenting savings. How can you manage to make 20 billion schilling in the post, which is already so high in debt anyway, over the next two years plus the turnover tax? – 20 billion schilling from a company that is highly indebted and a real problem. And now the whole company is to become a so-called cash-cow. They themselves do not believe that this will succeed. Just as you are doing with regard to the post or revenue expectations at the post office, you will also proceed with the preparation of the budget with the economic data or with the growth data. While in the course of the budget negotiations with Wifo figures for growth for 1996 the Wifo has been argued or operated on by 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent respectively in 1997, one day before the Federal Chancellor's declaration of government, the Wifo has no longer excluded a recession. At the same time, IHS Chief Felderer revised the 1996 growth forecast, which, according to IHS, was already only 1.4 percent lower. And you, Mr. Minister, said yesterday from the government bank: This budget has been created on the basis of a growth rate of 1.6%. That means, even with you, it's just like your predecessor Lacina – Staribacher didn't bring together a budget –: The usual difference between budget speech and economic reality is growing! [[Complaints with the cowards.]] We did not expect this procedure from a man like you, Mr. Finanzminister, who comes from the economy. I had expected you to have a little more realistic sense of reality that you don't keep fairy tale hours like others. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] According to Felder, we cannot see the growth in Austria autonomously. We are dependent on the development in Germany, on how the estimates for Germany look like the evaluation of growth rates in Germany. – In 1995, there was a minus growth in Germany: fourth quarter: minus 0.5 percent. For 1996, the forecasts have been so strongly revised that they go against zero. We are directly or indirectly dependent on the German economic growth rates, and the budget figures you presented here to the House are based on these forecasts. What will happen if the forecast growth does not occur? – The budget will be released from all joints. The budget even disappeared in 1995 when we still had real growth rates: in the first quarter: 0.9 percent, in the second quarter: 0.4 percent. Nevertheless, and despite your savings package I, the federal budget for 1995 has completely disappeared; the deficit has risen from 102 billion to 118 billion Schilling. Where is that supposed to lead? If you do not implement budget consolidation at a time when there is economic growth, how do you want to achieve this in a time of recession? To the citizens you say: That's going to be all right! – You are really on the wrong path! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why should we in Austria, in particular, succeed in doing the wrong thing – that is, revenue on the part of the budget – in the wrong way? Basic structural changes are largely lacking. This will not, in spite of all the international experiences, result in a renovation of the Marod Austrian state finances. There is an examination of two university professors. Mr Alberto Alesina from Harvard University and Mr Robert Perotti from Columbia University have conducted a study of 20 OECD countries on how to get the budget deficit in terms of expenditure or revenue. The two university professors compare the two strategies applied, namely those on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, and they come to the following result – I quote –: Fiscal measures, which are only tax increases and are, in particular, direct taxes for households, are not appropriate to halt a permanent increase in the public debt burden. Tax increases lead to a loss of competitiveness. After short-term success, the revenue-based attempt at budgetary rehabilitation will lead to a further explosion of public debt at the latest in the medium term. Mr Finanzminister! You should take a look at that! Where do you think we are heading for revenue recovery? As regards the Austrian budget, the result of this study means that the Federal Government could possibly succeed in reaching the Maastricht criteria for a common monetary union in the short term, but that is where all possible tricks are applied: Distributing federal schools, cross-subsidisation between insolvency and insolvency funds, and a socially unbalanced tax package. This will only achieve the goal for the end of 1997, but after that – 1998 – a load package will come for the Austrian population, which will put everything in the shadows to date. Mr Finanzminister! I'll come to your budget lie no. 3rd. Have been having yesterday She said: Make sure that this can also be implemented. The same will no longer be necessary to the present extent. – That is true, but not the way you want to sell it to the economical and economical population that has recognized the seriousness of the situation – unlike the Federal Government. If this load package is over, measures will be necessary, in particular by means of revenue, which will put everything in the shadows so far. Mr Finanzminister! In March you gave the "Industriemagazin" an interview, according to which the tax state of Swedish embossed you. In this you have revealed: It becomes a reorganisation of the tax system with a general charge and thus a full taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary – the first predecessors have already been with social security – comes; without adjustment of tax rates, probably no adjustment to cold progression, increase in inheritance tax and so on. So, rather than reducing the burden on the budget recovery act announced by the Federal Government, the next wave of burden is unfortunately already decided. All the warnings of the experts, the economic researchers, will be struck in the wind; under the cover of the Vranitzky word aid policy, new strains will be invented instead of eliminating structural errors! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that the social partners are not allowed to stand behind is obvious. Some excerpts from their ideas: Reduction of sickness benefit to half a year, higher health insurance contributions for pensioners and the cost of the prescription and stay in hospital – almost as a challenge for the climate visions, for the climate lie No. 3rd. That's what I'm doing at Budget Lie No. 4! With regard to these prospects, especially in the social field, and the massive interventions already under way in the decision-making process, no one will be convinced that the following sentence from your budget speech yesterday will only become nearer reality, namely: "Despite the necessary adjustments, the social standard in Austria will be higher in the second half of the nineties than at the beginning of the decade." – By the end of the 1990s, unfortunately, the parameters of the Austrian economy will have deteriorated so much that a structural change in this economy will no longer be possible. It is also significant how easily this government of Vranitzky V, especially Neo-Finanzminister Klima, deals with the issue of insolvency. [[Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser speaks to Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] [[Call to the liberals: He doesn't listen at all!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Let him talk out once, you disturb the minister in his conversation!]] I really do not want to disturb the Minister, but I think you are sitting in a government, Mr Minister, and there you can really talk about it in a different way. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's what you say in the stenographic protocol anyway! You're so addictive!]] I have already told you where these remarks usually come from: from your corner – this fits you, Mr Posch. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think there is also a nice list of privileges with regard to your person, Mr Posch. Maybe you should quote from this, but maybe that's what a follow-up speaker of mine does. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] Yeah, for example. – It has been said that the system is maintained so that the privileges remain a little. They also go about the development of insolvency simply: In 1995 we had lost a total of 63 billion schillings from the insolvencys – most of them irrevocably for the Austrian economy. In the case of a need for value adjustment in the order of about two thirds, this will result in a damage to the Minister of Finance – only from the direct income taxes! – amounting to 14 billion schilling. The fact that the insolvency of 1995 was not all, but that it will continue in 1996, not only say the opposition parties. For example, the editor-in-chief of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" Barazon predicted in autumn in the "Zum dass" programme that the highlight of company claims in Austria in 1995 was not yet reached and that there was much trouble in 1996 and 1997. But you just ignore it from the government parties. There is no structural change in the Austrian economy. There is no change in the fact that obsolete, no longer modern, companies are entering new, forward-looking business areas. The structural change in Austria only results in an annual destruction of economic assets, namely, 3 per cent of gross domestic product – rising trend – and in a labour market where there is no prospects for the release of workers. Mr Finanzminister! Have as "worst case" It represents an unemployment rate of 7 percent – this will be at most a mean value, and the peaks will far exceed that. But you ignore all alarm signals: The insolvency compensation fund is in debt with 6 billion schilling; it is almost in favour, and you will also try to provide funds for this fund by means of so-called cross-financing from still solving funds – as it was years ago, at the time you, Minister of Climate, were not yet in the government that made red and black coalition when the family compensation fund was removed. And now the family compensation fund is being said: It is not possible to help families to ensure that families rich in children also have the opportunity to move on in Austria. – This is your kind of politics! They are not trying to create a clear budget, but They are simply trying to break down liabilities and debts in order to hide this from the citizens. Mr Finanzminister Klima! They should think of how to counter the social consequences of bankruptcy or compensation. [[Abg. Edler: Shadow Minister!]] The Federal Government has failed in the last ten years – it will fail again and again in the coming years – to correct or mitigate these consequences. The only thing that has always come to your mind is tax increases, new sources of money through cross-subsidisation, extra-budget funding – the solving funds should now be bullied – but this federal government is not able to make a deep structural cut. They prefer to stop holes in the short term, thus continuing the policy of Vranitzky – Schüssel – Ditz – climate in the coming years. It is precisely this path, however, that leads in the wrong direction, because you will see that the recession will be intensified – because the insolvency compensation fund is pleading, because the unemployment rate will be 7 percent and more on average, and because the free room for action for future budgets is getting smaller and lower. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The freedom of action is getting smaller – this is also noted by the Director of the Institute for Higher Studies. Prof. Felder said: So far, the billions of public funding has always gone into industry. One has neglected the strong small and medium-sized economy, which has made a lot for the provision of jobs and has done a lot of work in Austria out of its own commitment and risk. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edler: Make a suggestion.]] If these subsidies had not been given to industry only in accordance with the principle of foundry, so as to maintain "industrial cemeteries", but to keep small and medium-sized enterprises, a structure would have been created which would have enabled one to cope with competitive adjustment pressure since accession to the EU. But They have only put these companies in a position to face problems. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Zusperr Strategy!]] This is not a confidence strategy! – What I have just said comes not only from an opposition party, but also from the IHS, from Dr. Felder, who is at least the head of this institute. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: It's not right anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr. Novotny doesn't learn anything anymore!]] But Professor Felder is not the only one who scoffs at these things. The Innsbruck Rector of the University of Smekal also warns and says that this time the reorganisation of the budget must not be a swindle, although all signs go in this direction again. It notes that in view of the expected weakening of economic growth, budgetary adjustment is only possible if the total expenditure of the federal government in this period is nominally reduced by around 2% across all sectors. However, since the dynamic expenditure blocks such as public remuneration, social security and, above all, the interest on government debt will increase by more than 5 percent, the coalition's recovery target is highly unlikely. It is therefore not possible to exclude the danger, according to Smekal, that in the next two years there will be a swindle budget, with a maximum of external debt financing and unrealistic privatisation proceeds. Professor Smekal is certainly not a liberties; rather, I think, he is a member of the ÖVP empire. [[Abg. Ing. Meschberger: Why do you believe this?]] I think you should deal with this. - Why do I believe that? Because Smekal is one of the Austrian People's Party's People's Party's People's Party who can no longer see that this party is constantly involved in swindling budgets, because he believes that it can no longer continue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The financing problems continue: in the area of railways, the family compensation fund and the ASFINAG. But these actions, which have already been threatened by Staribacher – outsourcing of debt – and are now to be continued by climate, are no longer budget cosmetics. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing here are panic attacks! You don't believe that any more! You can't cover these things anymore! Yesterday you mentioned in the budget speech, it only deals with 4.7 billion shillings of privatisation proceeds. On the other hand, you say you want to privatize the CA, the airport Vienna and the federal shares in Bank Austria. It has nothing to do with caution. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Oja!]] What to do You with the money? [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Room for play!]] Explain this once. Will debt be distributed first, which you want to reintroduce with privatisation? What to do You there? We already have a right to you telling us the truth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You also have to look at: It just doesn't work anymore to think so rigidly and to say: We are an island of the Blessed, we cannot happen anything anyway, we do our budgetary policy, we introduce new taxes, we introduce an eco-tax – regardless of all the Austrian People's Party's election promises, which have always meant that an eco-tax will only be introduced if it is non-profit. Now the ÖVP agrees with the Minister and justifys itself: We only use them to clean up budgets or stop budget holes. Mr Finanzminister! You will certainly not continue with this budgetary policy. The budget you have created here is not a consolidation budget! This is at most a panic budget, which means the continuation of the path in the wrong direction. You do not want to realize major designs, but you want to continuously continue to administer the current conditions: It's not supposed to change anything on the system, it's supposed to stay the same as it is. Klubobmann Kostelka formulated this in the government statement as beautifully as he said: Save yes, but we definitely want to get the system. That's your attitude! You want to secure your "pants", you don't want to attack the privileges: neither in the protected areas, nor in the central bank, nor even in your own areas. That, on the other hand, is what the population expects! It not only wants senseless, acid tax increases, but the population is open to structural changes, to prospects for the future. The population would now be willing to do so, but it will no longer be ready in 1998 if it feels that it has only been abandoned for one and a half years. – The fact that the population is being betrayed shows statements by several economic politicians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I should like to draw attention to an article by Christian Ortner in the "Economic Week", which takes a position on the structural changes you and the Federal Chancellor are planning. He writes – I quote –: It already needs a proper degree of political simplicity to expect this government to have a significant plan on how Austria is to be made fiercely through substantial changes in its political-economic system for the extraordinary economic challenges of the coming years. It is precisely diametrically contrary to the politics of moderating to present such a plan. Christian Ortner has done this very well. It is truly remarkable with which consequence and perfection the change to the smallest detail is refused. Ortner writes: For example, if we read in the work programme of the Cabinet of Vranitzky V: "Investment hours must be designed with the involvement of the social partners," we know exactly what to expect: Nothing will happen. If we read a few pages in the same paper that access to commercial activity is easier, I ask you: How long has it been to facilitate? The former Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel and the current Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz have consistently demonstrated: The framework conditions are to be facilitated. [[Abg. May. Main: And the Minister Graf!]] There should be structural changes. Minister Graf has always said that. That's right, Mr. Head of State. But nothing happened. Ortner writes: Just as the government is dealing with this matter, it is more likely to compare it with the pace of a foot-broken turtle under the influence of a considerable amount of Rohypnol. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] That means you want to proceed according to the motto: "Don't go through any reforms, just get the system." President-in-Office of the Council has also put this to the fore. It also insists on structural changes. Many reforms, so-called 'Südler', have been missed or not implemented in time in recent years. – But you're pretending to be innocent today. Mr Höchtl comes out here and says: Now we're making things better. Everything that has been so far doesn't interest people. – I have never heard such a fairy tale hour! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is now hope that everything will get better in the administrative field, but not because the government parties have come to be enlightened, but because the financial resources are no longer there, because the financial scarcity has become so great that we really need to save. Dr. Fiedler clearly says what he thinks about this savings package: It is not balanced, because of the massive failure of recent years, this Federal Government has been under severe pressure and it is now trying with all its means to reach the deadline for 1998. They have taken emergency measures – this is not a structural budget! – which require undifferentiated savings measures and you drive across everything like a lawn mower. This is not a structural change! However, it is the case that we should now vote in the National Council on two budgets, which show no prospects at all. Citizens are only taxed, there are no structural improvements, the economy is not strengthened. On the contrary: Unfortunately, the measures you are taking, through these accompanying structural adjustment laws, will make the recession even worse so that the problem will surely go beyond the magical year 1998. It will shift in the form that you will have to act again in 1998 with a revenue-side emergency programme and will again pass over the Austrian population via "Rasenmower Action". Federal Minister! You only have the one maximum in your head – just like your predecessor Lacina; from Staribacher we didn't hear anything about this, he didn't even make a budget: How do I get control devices as fast as possible to keep an obsolete system alive as long as I am in power? – That’s your only goal! As for the Austrian population, as far as the bulk income and the Austrian economy is concerned, this does not matter to you at all! You just go over everything. In 1996, you will have a change in the basis of the 13th and 14th calculations. A month-on-month, the minimum rates for corporation tax increase to 50 000 p. They come with a support of the exemption, with a non-income-neutral energy tax, with massive cuts in the social field, with the removal of the loss premium, extension of depreciation and thus an increase in the tax base so that you can tax so-called sham profits; these are your intentions. But otherwise you have no philosophy! Unfortunately, this Federal Government is going this way that even the tax law of these government politicians is being exercised; legal uncertainty is also growing. By means of constitutional provisions, you also want to maintain the coherent structure of the tax system as well as the tax continuity ad absurdum. In the last five years alone, you have changed four times the terms of the investment exemption! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's a fact!]] There's no confidence anymore! What is an investor who invests in Austria supposed to think of Austria if you constantly change the framework conditions? – Of course, it will no longer invest in Austria. But not only tax continuity is at risk. They now want to deal with the federal constitution with these structural adjustment laws in such a way that they are no longer valid in terms of budget creation. In other words, it is not to be explained that 20 measures are to be adopted in the Income Tax Act, of which the Board of Economic Trustees is convinced that these are unconstitutional. As the President of the Chamber of Economic Trustees criticised, they are to be decided as constitutional provisions and thus deprived of subsequent control by the Constitutional Court. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Hübner – literally! – "all democratic minds who are at the root of the fundamental principles of our state call to express themselves clearly against this procedure". [[Call to the liberals:And the ÖVP participates!]] They want to deal with this. The legislator wants to avoid, above all, the principle of the prohibition of the retroactive effect of laws, because if you do not make a constitutional provision, you cannot bring the laws back into effect – and that would undermine your grip on the tax pockets of Austrian citizens or women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't listen, that's your problem!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr Finanzminister! President Hübner also said that it can't go on this way by saying: Although we have been involved in the discussions on the measures for this savings package, it has not been said that there are retroactive and unconstitutional measures. [[Abg. Edler: Mr Trattner! Make suggestions!]] There is a completely counterproductive behavior on your part! The Innsbruck tax lawyer Doralt also brings your fiscal policy to a point. He said – I quote –: The individual taxpayer is delivered to the chaos of the "reformer". There are no simplifications or privileges. A big chance was given. Here not only the politicians have failed, but also the officials of the Ministry of Finance. In summary, it can be found that there is a ballast across the entire Austrian population, with no regard for any accompanying measures. This is not only criticised by the opposition parties, but also by the President of the Court of Auditors, by university professors, by people who are not close to the liberal party, but who are close to the red and black camps, but who can no longer see what budgetary policy you want to pursue. You will not create any solutions with this budgetary policy! They have repeatedly claimed – it has also been said in the government statement Vranckky V – that one must have the courage to the truth. – I would have expected the courage of the truth from you here, for example yesterday at the budget speech. The courage to the truth that you said what the budget really looks like and what it should do in the future. But since you and the Federal Chancellor have repeatedly taken the word "must" into their mouth in the course of the debate on this declaration of government, I can remind you of a sentence by Alfred Herrhausen. Herrhausen criticises the "Unter-Unsegstellt-Gesellschaft", which is also broken out in Austria, in which ever-frequent truths are suppressed, which then become toxic over time. That's the danger! They'll be suppressed and then get toxic. To prevent this, he demands the following – I quote –: It takes courage to express unpopular truths and not to suppress them, to lower exaggerate hopes and not to stimulate them, not to make promises that cannot be fulfilled afterwards. The Vranitzky V cabinet with its so-called two load budgets or panic budgets massively violates all these postulates. The consequences are foreseeable: further deterioration of state finances, further decline in the social system, a further wave of burden for citizens and no possibility for the Austrian economy to put in place the necessary measures for structural conversion. Unfortunately, with this budgetary policy, Mr Finanzminister, you manage Austria to death, and with the expected decision-making of these federal budgets. They unfortunately took the "patients Austria" to the intensive care station for practically hopeless cases.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2620	The next speaker is Mr Haselsteiner. He's got the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner brings the government's documents on structural adjustment law to the speaker's desk.]] [[Call the FPÖ:A carrier!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is the first time in your life that you work yourself!]] If you had told us in good time, of course we would have provided an employee so that you would not have to complain.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e2692	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister yesterday invited the Members of this House to participate constructively and decisively in the coming up of the budget of 1996 and 1997 and its accompanying legislation. - So far, so good. That same day, this bump of paper came. For your information: It is about half a meter high and weighs 22.4 kilograms. We were told: Please, these are the documents. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have to talk about how to understand such an invitation to constructive cooperation? [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on the Freedom.]] [[Call out to the liberals: This is remorse!]] I, Federal Minister, can only understand this as a mockery or a floskel. [[Abg. May. Main: Right!]] In general, such an invitation cannot be – not for an opposition politician, and in addition, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, not even for you! Most of all for a handful of you who could already deal with this matter in the run-up to the creation of this paper, and who may have had an advantage of knowledge and knowledge due to some personal relationship with the thinkers and those working on it. All the others – including you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! – are, like the opposition politicians, just statistics of this House – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum as well as on the Freedom.]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's not true!]] Federal Minister! I should also like to draw your attention – and you could tell us calmly – to the fact that you have encountered great difficulties in assessing these laws. There are local authorities that have refused the review, namely, that it is not serious, because in the specified time of three or seven days simply and simply not. – I think this is a legitimate objection. It is not possible to make serious policy and cooperate in such a framework and under such a time pressure. I believe, Minister of the State, that you have not for nothing chosen the defendant's intervention and the defendant's recourse to constitutional amendments, to retroactive laws: They would not have done this themselves and would not have achieved this effect. This is the whole problem: If we want to make a credible policy in this Parliament, we must not let this process go unanswered. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Freeman and on the Greens.]] I know, Mr Novotny, that you are saying that this is a special situation – Mr Höchtl has this much less professional than you, but also said, but, as I believe, something different – but I may say, To draw your attention to this: The "special situation" is already a permanent, a permanent situation. They have recently sworn to Stone and Leg that it will no longer happen that a draft budget accompanying law will never be discussed in a committee, even if it is still so structured, but where it belongs: in the specialist committees, in which Members with expertise can discuss it. Make Today You're the same with the double volume and half-time. [[Abg. Scheibner: With the double time pressure!]] I have to say: I can't! They overwhelm us, but in the end you will also overwhelm your own colleagues, and you will overwhelm Parliament and hence the quality of Austrian politics! [[Accompaniment with the Liberal Forum and accompaniment of the Abg. Blünegger.]] We have three days to discuss the budget accompanying legislation, and we have three days to discuss the budget in the Subcommittee on Time. Your own colleagues, Mr Novotny and Mr Stummvoll, call this a bright insanity. Not we, but your own colleagues say: I can't! That's hell of a madness! Ladies and gentlemen! If you are not only a social partner, but also a member of your parliamentary mandate – at the real power of this Republic – then you can only be silently nodding with your head here – or relinquish your mandate! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister of Climate! It would have been much better if you had said the truth – we would have understood it, because we believe that we are appreciating the difficult situation of the Republic and the budget creation – if you would have said so: We have an emergency programme, and we have to go through it under time pressure, so we need small teams and many helpers – as you have done, professionally –, so we do not want to participate in Parliament, or such, is simply not possible now, then you could have saved the flakes of this invitation to cooperate. That is why it appears in a special guise, because the Federal Chancellor was already on the 27th. Parliament will decide without any changes – I refer to this almost half-meter paper – on February. ==References== The Federal Chancellor has already said this on February, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition. Dr. Vrannitzky said: There will be no majority of opposition amendments in this House. – This is the true "invitation" for cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They should only have the courage to express it in this way and not in another way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the budget debate and all that has to do with the budget creation cannot be without a hundred times the expression of the swindler budget. To this end, this "issue" of Mr. Vice Chancellor Schüssel in the course of the election campaign was just too beautiful. This expression was also so quickly anchored in the mouth of the people because it was clearly in keeping with the truth. That wasn't a promise, it wasn't a false choice of words, but it's what Mr Vice-Chancellor really meant. He actually meant "swivel budgets," and I'm convinced he knew what he's talking about. We all know them, these dizzy budgets. They are talking about budget deficits of 90 billion, and there will be 120 billion schilling. They speak of 102 billion schilling, and there will be 118 billion schilling and similar more. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has already allowed – and therefore, of course, possible – tricks after application of all in camera music. I am not against this presentation, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen of the officials, I believe that we should also point out how we have been done, unless you intend to let us die stupidly. But that's where I have to tell you: We may not be stupid at all then and find some hint. You are writing in your 1996 budget report, although there is an overrun – you remember, my Ladies and gentlemen: 102 billion schillings, otherwise Lacina, has called it; 117 billion schillings have come out, and Lacina has nevertheless gone – but that would not be so bad, because 15 billion schillings have been sent back. However, there is no indication that 20 billion schillings have also been removed. – And these are the things I have problems with, because I do not recognise your motives for making this presentation to the Members. Either the Members are not supposed to do so, so stupidly "death" or you want to achieve a certain inaccurate external effect. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a problem if a budget – with respect for two budgets in this case – is based on unrealistic economic growth rates. 1.6% and 1.2 percent will not be able to keep it – you already know it for a long time, as your experts tell you and have told you often enough – but it is at best half a percent inside. And I think we should still congratulate ourselves on this, because then the worst thing for 1996 would have passed us. Now the Federal Minister for Finance says that this is not so bad at all, because per fall of 0.3 per cent in the assessment of economic growth, the net deficit was only affected by 0.06 per cent, and that would be so to speak. Federal Minister! I think you, your experts and your officials know that this 0.06 percent will not vote. If we really miss economic growth by one percentage point – and this is quite realistic, this is not a panic, ladies and gentlemen, but it is a finding, and I think it is always good to look at reality, to adjust to it and not to a security that is not given – if we have a 1 percent reduction in economic growth in the first budget year, then you will have to expect at least 0.3 to 0.4 percent deficit increase. But since you're so close to it, it makes a difference, because you don't have your much-conjured scope. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They are also generous in the interpretation, which is revenue side and expenditure side. They are also authorizing a positive word in the population. The Austrians were always economical people, and they see the word "spare" positively occupied. Therefore, if a policy measure is clearly linked to this will of savings, then, you say, it is easier, as it were, to accept it. That's why you say you'd save two-thirds anyway. – As mentioned today, you save not two thirds, but at best 50 percent, and the other 50 percent are pure money acquisitions! There are contradictions in your own documents, Mr. Federal Minister, and therefore you must also make the accusation "swirl" fall on this point. A particular issue in this draft budget and also in your budget speech is the proceeds of privatisation. They'll sell it several times. On the one hand, you say you only expected 4.7 billion schilling, but there'll probably be much more. . I do not know how many times I have heard that, I think the third time, from Mr Lacina, too, twice. He said it's still little this year, but next year it'll probably be much more, because then the projects come one, two, three, four, five. That is why, Minister of State, I must say to you today: Enter the privatisation proceeds only when it sounded in the cash register – and not when the dove is still sitting on the roof. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum.]] But if you give them in, Minister of State, then we also need to talk about what you do with it. For one thing is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen: Privatisation proceeds are unique phenomena. They are similar to the sale of the family silver or the house forest. You can beat it once, then you have to wait 30 years, and then you may have a family silver again. But what are you doing with it? – You say correctly in your budget speech: I'm making a technology fund. Research and technology: That would be a proper approach shared by us. But on another side you say: This serves me as a reserve, to cover the budget deficit, should not expect economic growth to be 1.6%. What's the matter now, Mr. Federal Minister? – Yes, Minister of State, both, that is easy to say. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Both!]] You mean, then, if you don't need it to cover the budget deficit, take it for research and technology. I'll tell you: They will need it, and therefore there will be nothing for research and technology – but nothing at all! - Stay! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Apart from that, Mr Federal Minister, you also have another problem; I would just like to take it up here. They do not reach a Maastricht criterion, and that is the state debt. There are credible and persuasive economic theories, according to which privatisation proceeds are primarily or exclusively to serve to reduce public debt. These are debts we have, too. Not only do we have the assets that we are now ruining, but we also have this debt burden. You yourself have pointed out, in large parts of your budget speech, how dangerous this debt burden is, which is automatically linked to how quickly interest rates can run out of rowing and what undesirable distribution policy measures this development entailed from your point of view. You yourself say that, Minister of State. – And with regard to privatisation proceeds, you could also think about it. They are still dizzying in your budget approaches in various other areas. If you're going through your accompanying laws – you won't believe it, but I've done it, quite completely even; at least once read cross-reading – then you'll find out that you're using old Lacinian tricks. You do not change the Gregorian calendar, as Minister Lacina did, who invented a single thirteenth month, you do not, but you do not follow him from the attitude and from the tricky and imaginative design. You too are making advances. You say you delete this and that once for two years, then you'll see. The main thing is that we are either in monetary union in 1999 or at least reached the criteria. That's feasible, that's legitimate, but you should document it. An entrepreneur would have to make a statement in his balance sheet here. They were long enough financial director in a well-known Austrian industrial company. You know that, Minister! On this point, your procedure does not correspond to the desirable openness and correctness, especially not to this House, otherwise you would have made a footnote. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! They and all the speakers in the government coalition conjure up the "social balance" of this package. This is a special chapter. They now understand "social balance" at once the impossibility of a remark à la Androsch. They say if Androsch can't say: I don't care! Then the package is socially balanced. But that's what you're doing. The sum of socially balanced measures would be social balance, but not the arbitrary distribution of non-social measures among different population and income groups. This is not social justice, ladies and gentlemen; especially not on your side. [[The speaker points towards the SPÖ banks.]] You need to know that or at least feel it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At the time, they have distributed them according to the principle of foundry; we have complained. But today you're shortening with the lawn mower. You must make this accusation happen! He is right, and he comes not only from the opposition, but from anyone who deals with your social policy. You also feel that this is not socially balanced, Mrs Ederer. God, I'm sorry! And we feel it with you. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ederer.]] In my view, it is not a quality feature of this budget and this budget accompanying law if Androsch or anyone else in this Republic must say: It hits me, too. This is not a category, this is just a marketing success: It's easier to "eini" when it hits everyone. We want a socially balanced package, socially balanced measures. For the time being, we invite you to study our transfer model, to find that it is well thought out, coherent and constitutional and that it is especially balanced in social terms. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! You yourself say, of course, that this conflict is a compromise, and you stress the role of the social partners; as I realize at all that the social partners have been since 17. ==References====External links== You know, Mr Dr. Stummvoll, my basic attitude to the social partners. I assume that you cannot and do not want to share them, but I do not think that will divide us so far that we cannot find out: Social partnership and the need to take this compromise – because another would not succeed – prevent innovation on the other hand. We need to be clear about this – Mr. Federal Minister for Climate will know –: If we always look for compromise, if we always go the way of the middle, then sooner or later we automatically and inevitably also go the way of mean, as a quality concept. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a product of medium size. It's a lot inside, Minister of State, of which I can say: Yes, there's something you've trusted, you've got different points, but in toto, it's a product of medium size. But we will not renew this republic with medium-sized products, we will not make it fit, we will not achieve what you yourself have formulated as your five goals. We do not need a means, but we need innovation, and you, ladies and gentlemen, will not succeed in this system of social security, with this eternal search for a compromise. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] They themselves are talking about "reforms for the future". I would just like to pick up some of them with a very up-to-date reference. I was happy today in the morning when I heard that the ÖVP in the Meanwhile, the working time model of us Liberals – ten hours of calculation and so on – has largely also made it their own. Of course, I am always happy when I see that you can at least bring a little thought back and forth as an opposition party, but at the same time it was disillusioning – even though I did not wonder – to see the reactions from the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! This would be one of the structural measures: a permanent, continuous flexibility of working time. It would be one of the structural measures that you claim to take, but which are not included here. [[The speaker points to a high impact of documents on the speaker's desk]] And you see for yourself that you will fail, because Mrs Reitsamer has, I think, said – hopefully I quote her correctly –: Such a measure will not find a majority in Parliament. And that's why you didn't allow yourself a coalition-free space, so that you can turn off this "risk" from the beginning. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Besenkammer!]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is our problems. The structural reforms have left you. The same applies, however, to the trade regulations. What you, Dr. Stummful and colleagues, have brought together in "Competition reform" is simply not worth being called structural reform. A little bit, a little bit there! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter shakes the head.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder, that it is. You should at least not dispute it too vehemently, otherwise you will lose credibility. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: I'll show you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You didn't even do it!]] You have not implemented a trade reform, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who may be more likely to represent it, will not be able to carry it out, because the Njet will also come in the trade order, just as the flexibility of working time comes. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You don't even want it!]] In addition, you only want to preach it, but you don’t really want it. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Saving without administrative reform, saving without federalism reform, in the sense that we split the budget into smaller, autonomous, legal or partial units, will not work. Saving in a ministry from above does not work – or it has undesirable consequences. It is only possible to save where the person responsible can also see where the saving measure is effective and where it can be implemented. There you have to save! Therefore, you do not need to be proud of a financial compensation that you have now extended for four years. You have to be ashamed because you have failed to meet a very essential criterion in this Republic, and this criterion would be to commit the heads of state and the mayors to saving. The most beautiful job in this country is that of a chief of state. This will be confirmed even by Dr. Haider. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider nodds with a certain skepticism.]] This is the most beautiful job in this country, because you get the "Marie" through the financial compensation – and then you divide according to your own appreciation. And it doesn't matter that we in Carinthia have 14 officials in 100 inhabitants, although we could do it with eight. There are the resistances against which you dare not stand, there are the group interests, there are the party interests anchored. And if you don't break these, you won't be able to lead this country into a new future! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Hazelsteiner! They already know that the national and municipal budgets are also involved!]] Dear Andreas, I think I know this almost as well as you do, even if I am not a professor in Innsbruck. [[New congratulations to the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But that doesn't seem to happen!]] In the consolidation package, you provide employment-related measures and then claim that these measures would lead to the re-establishment and safeguarding of 30 000 additional jobs. – I admire the courage and courage that you dare to make such a determination. If I'm going to get away with this now and say, President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party You can restore part of the 50 000 jobs lost in the meantime, what do you say about this? Because that we are now permanently losing jobs, you can read that, not only in the newspaper, but also in the indicators, you can read it. What you intend to do here in terms of employment-related measures is, at best, to restore the situation that we had before this unfortunate crisis, which lies in your responsibility. That's nothing you can be proud of. This is the minimum task you need to face. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The measures are mainly construction-specific, and I believe that you will trust me with a certain technical assessment on this point. This will at best stabilise us and the Austrian construction industry at a very, very low level with high redundancy rates in the workforce, but there will not be any additional employment impulses. I would like once again, because it is such a special concern to me to come back to the bonus malus system. This, too, Mr Federal Minister, was included in your budget speech. I ask you to reconsider this. We know that there are many in the SPÖ who did not want this model so much and who could have imagined another one better. I think that this is a truly irresistible and also irresponsible model. I do not think that the underprotection of the over fifty years is necessary. We over fifty years do not need protection, nor do we want protection. We don't want to be stigmatized! Mr President, I think you should go another way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! You have announced offensives, initiatives and similar programmes here. I would ask you to be restricted or, at least, to note that you know that technology offensives, export offensives, employment offensives cannot be made by a federal government, or only to a very, very modest extent, but that they must be made by the respective companies of a country. You know how many billions of technology and research billions are international today, and you also know where our real problem lies. We have too little international corporations; I am not comparing with Germany, France or other, much larger industrial nations now, but I am making comparisons with Switzerland. In Switzerland, because of the great conglomerates that have been created there, there is another potential – and this corresponds to our overall budget and not to the funding part of our budget; it is not the talk of 20 billion, not of 40 billion, but of hundreds of billions of billions available for research and technological renewal. Unfortunately, we do not have this money. But I just wanted to correct the impression that we only have offensives to start and that this will make everything better. I think we should rather focus on shaping the framework conditions in such a way that we can attract offensives equipped with large innovation or research budgets to Austria. However, you will not be able to do that if you change retroactive laws and introduce any constitutional provisions, because with them you shake the credibility of Austrian financial policy, confidence in continuity and predictability in such a way that you will have to chew it for years. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! They say: We need a wave of founders, we need innovation for business start-ups, which would make the job problem easier to deal with. I agree. We needed to reach the average of industrial nations in this area in Austria, 140 000 new entrants, and then we lie on average in the OECD countries. 140 000 new ventures! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if at present the conditions are favourable, since the strengthening of the service sector in the economic development sector tends to promote the re-establishment of small enterprises with few workers, it must not be killed by 50 000 S of minimum corporation tax in the year of the foundation, Mr Minister, for otherwise one has nothing of it! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Federal Minister! This is why, according to my interpretation – and I may be wrong – you have taken these many measures so that they can meet everyone and, as a result, they seem to have been given social balance, I believe that the wrong way is wrong. I believe, Minister of State, that it is primarily with one end, and you should really do so: You swear you'd regain the budgetary margin. Mr. Federal Minister, I don't understand. They come with the help of your experts on budgets that are still in line with the criteria. You have created a little room for room by means of the possibilities of chamberism, but in fact you do not have more room for room. Federal Minister! They should prepare us, and also the Austrian people, for this tends to be a step in the right direction, but it has no more than the quality of an emergency programme and that everything else has to be followed. You should not make the same mistake as with the EU debate where They received overwhelming approval and subsequently had to admit the full truth in part and contribute to the corresponding frustration of the Austrian population. You should not commit this mistake again! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that there are many Members here in the house and that there are also many people in this country who want to play the ostrich. If Mr Höchtl has said: We from the Austrian People's Party no longer play ostrich!, then I must tell him: Yeah, but the eyes are still glued to the sand. You've never seen the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the Freemans.]] Federal Minister! Total You understand that, for several reasons, we must refuse to approve these budgets. We consider it unsanitary to really advise in the time of this budget. We have noted that our participation in this budget is also not desirable in that it is not, from the outset, an impact on this package of amendments or suggestions from the opposition. ................................................................................................................. Feber. In addition, we also have serious concerns about the content. Despite your good will attestation, despite the attestation that you, Mr. Section Head, worked much and night long and brought in a lot of expertise and expertise, we must say: [[the speaker looks at the seat rows on the left of the Bureau]] This content is not in line with the ideas of the Liberal Forum. We do not believe that you will achieve your seven goals. We believe that you will not reach four of them. They will not be able to sustain the economic location of Austria and thus the high level of employment. I do not want to talk about it, Minister, what would happen if this hadn't happened. Only: Rehabilitation They are therefore not sustainable to the Austrian economic location. You're not going to make the state slim either. I strongly argue that you have succeeded in increasing the scope for public services in future budgets with this package. I just don't think you do, and I'd be grateful if you would give me that on any occasion. I say: You're scratching, you're just scratching past Maastricht's reasonable boundaries. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that with this package, but above all with the way in which things come and in the run-up to this package, you have a lasting impact on the credibility of Austrian politics, otherwise you would have to say: No, everything goes, just not retroactive and just not with the driving with the constitutional bat, because now we have the three votes. I can remind you again, Mr Klubobmann Khol: Don't get used to this majority, you'll get rid of them again! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the statement that this package of social peace in Austria is not at risk but is guaranteed and that the stability associated with it is guaranteed to be seen in a special light among the events of the last few days. I would like at least this objective, Mr Federal Minister, to be reached for you and for this Federal Government. That is in all our interest. I think that the objectives you have to set are also: Interests, currency stability, hard schilling et cetera, could still be reached. We can do all we can to ensure that the developments that are important to Austria are as predicted; Accept your package and also confirm the quality of this package, we cannot do that at best! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3092	Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for They will support a small weak parliamentary group in this House. Thank you many times. I call Mr Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3119	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yesterday, in his budget speech, I would like to say, of course, as a spokesman for the government in this matter, the Minister of Finance has praised these two budgets on the green clover, and has meant slightly critical or provocatively towards opposition that these budgets are necessary in order to avoid an emergency programme. Now this was happening – with a painful and stressful package, but otherwise it would be necessary to have an emergency program. Mr Federal Minister, I have to say, with my permission: Who brought us to the brink of this emergency programme: this government or opposition? – In other words, you will have to ask yourself about some self-criticism, which has led to this situation and why we are facing a development that is linked to a growing share of financial debt in gross domestic product until the year 1997, that is, until the time of your supposedly glorious savings budgets. This trend continues to go up, and this is a development that has caused this government and is now to be combated by measures we believe do not have the qualities of justice and balance that you have mentioned. [[the speaker presents a graphic]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance, however, yesterday – at least once in the budget speech; that was very remarkable – with regard to the causes, so why this so worrying state of affairs has occurred, a little different from what has been the case so far. So far, it has always said that the social state is unfinancing, there have been extensions in the transfer services – that is true –: Care, second year of care, and that is why the social state is no longer eligible for funding. I am glad that you addressed yesterday, at least once, the causes of much more weighty, namely the tax reforms that were implemented – which, however, have unilaterally benefited the operators – and the costs of joining the EU. But that you then let it be used and did not also critically question the Maastricht criteria, although already a very critical debate has been started internationally and also by government parties, is again a manco of your speech yesterday. They have also stated that European savings programmes have a damper impact on the economy. This is, I believe, a very, very serious problem, which you have gone a little too fast. You said: We need this damper now so that the economy can flourish more and better in the future. This bridge, in my opinion, came a little too fast. Then You already have to say how you want to become lord of an unemployment which is already perceived as a pressing one, which is already at enormous economic costs on the one hand and, on the other, an immeasurable human suffering on the other. How can you expect an improvement in this situation, where you yourself say that unemployment will increase even further, from 4.7 percent to 5.5 percent, that is, almost one percentage point. This is something where this leap, this seamless step to the better future, to the great success, is very unfounded. They also said in your budget speech that mass income will stagnate. This sentence should also be examined far more critically than You did this yesterday. We already have a massive demand-side economic problem, and if mass incomes are stagnating, then – and you know what that means – this has a dramatic impact not only on those affected – especially in the area of medium-sized incomes, it is true today that in view of the increased cost of housing, people are scarcely going through the rounds of costs in many areas – but also for the economy. Both sides suffer where demand fails: those who lack the money and those who have to complain of a lack of demand. They spoke so discreetly of "small savings" in the area of public staff pensions, and you have estimated these "small savings" for the year 1996 with 600 million schilling. But I have to make the comparison: If you or the Minister of Women always speak about the shortened "child garden billion" in the words of recognition, which is a great achievement, then I think: If these 600 million schillings are "small cuts" in public pensions, this is also a very small "child garden billion", which you have shrunk there. Ladies and gentlemen! We see from the Greens that, although the government has tried to ensure that it has at least become more honest with regard to the real causes of the need for savings, it is still fair in the consequences to be drawn. What we now need would be a major structural reform, especially an ecological structural reform, and not a budget that must be completed by 1997 under the pressure of the Maastricht criteria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our criticism can be described with a few superscriptions. We think these two budgets are first of all unecological, second of all uneconomic, third of them socially unbalanced, fourth of them anti-female, youth and education, and fifth of them a setback in the further development of an open art and culture scene. I'll explain this: This budget is unecological, as it also misses objectives that were still set out in the last government treaties: The Toronto goal, the commitment to pollutant reduction, just dropped you out of the texts. The announced Environmental Liability Act – which would be the most important market economic step towards ecologizing the economy – is no longer in place. This will not only damage the Austrian economy, but also the environment. There are also small details in the context of these budget consultations, which clearly illustrate the spirit of government work. How is it going now for activists who at the time demonstrated in the Ennstal? . We know that the right was on its side; the Constitutional Court decided clearly: This is a black building that was built there! The country of Styria did not have the necessary permits! How will you react now? – They release the financial procuratorship to these students and are interested in them with six-digit claims for damages. This is the anti-ecological attitude that emerges from these budgets in the small as in the large. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I urgently ask you: In this regard, take an influence on the financial procuratorship that this really is a third and illegal step against students, against people who have advocated the law, and that these claims for damages are withdrawn as unjust claims! Secondly, I have said that this package and the content of the Government Convention are uneconomical. You said: We are dampening the economy with this numbering work, with these government plans. They do so at a time when our economy, at which our employees urgently need a recovery in the economy. This is reflected in the increase in unemployment projected by you yourself. I do not entirely believe in the figures you have in the budget: If you assume that there will be an increase of "only" – under quotation marks – 1.1 billion schilling, I will tell you: That's not true, it won't happen. It's also illogical what you write here: If almost 5 percent unemployment costs almost 17 billion schillings, then – you know – 1 percentage point more unemployment with at least 3 billion schillings – unless you plan very dramatic cuts on the unemployed, and that, although you know that this population group is already extremely bad and it is also a demand for the economy. – You can always look at this medal from both sides. That is, in times when survival in some areas is about to happen, at universities around 1 billion schilling, whose waste there would lead to dramatic cuts, take more than 1 billion schillings in the unemployment support, instead of really looking for new ways of redistributing working time to more people, instead of trying to get more people into employment. This is a dramatic failure! As I said, we will have to talk about it at the end of the year. I am convinced that your figures will not be kept. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Third point: This package is socially unbalanced. I would also like to have your own figures spoken, Mr. Federal Minister. It can be found in the statistical part of your speech a table concerning the public charges of the federal government. It speaks a particularly clear language. I almost no longer need to judge her as an opposition politician. – The wage tax has risen continuously since 1991 from a then figure of 6.33 percent to a forecast of 1997 – 7.28 percent. This is a significant rise. On the other hand, in the same period the income tax was continuously reduced from 1.86 percent – a total of significantly less – to 1.53 percent. They always say: We need to keep Austria's location tax attractive to the companies. – They pay less and less taxes, whereas the bulk incomes, the socially weak, are more and more taxed by their own statistics! It looks even more dramatic in the field of the development of the taxation of wealth and wealth. We know that the wealth has increased very clearly, i.e. a responsible finance minister would have to look for new tax bases there – or at least not drop old ones. What happened in this regard? – Continue: Value 1991: 1.0 percent – in the international comparison sensationally little, already then, at the beginning of the nineties – now, forecast 1997: 0.37% – about one third. How can you explain this to us, Minister of State, that, despite the significant increase in wealth taxes, you have reduced the proportional tax burden by two-thirds in the case of disabled people, with single-parents? – This has nothing to do with "socially balanced" and with "commonly reasonable"! Ladies and gentlemen! This table – as has been said, presented by the government itself – speaks a clear language, and it proves that this package is socially unbalanced. The reductions in transfers have also been deliberately avoided where transfers are diverting from bottom to top, for example in the whole area of housing development, while I stress that we are of course committed to promoting housing and to providing social assistance in this respect, but not to continuing to promote the red and black housing economy and to redistributing from bottom to top. High house! Fourth: We consider this package to be anti-education and as suitable to build new hierarchies. And again, I do not need to justify this with a green criticism, but in this respect, the Wifo speaks a very clear language. The Wifo says that the savings package will lead to a doubling of academic unemployment. I do not need to tell you what this means in the face of already increased academic unemployment. All of this means: Loads on the families of students and students themselves, loads on middle construction – once again there! – building new hierarchies and the fact that women at the universities are more affected by this package than men. Example University of Innsbruck: Women account for 37.3 percent of contract assistants employed for half-days, while the habilitated assistants account for only 8.8 percent. – Here too: They do it hidden and something covered, but the anti-female and anti-education goes through the whole package like a red thread! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, it is not surprising that the students speak of a "people's economic insanity". And the way in which you have had to lock down Parliament in the last few days, as you seem to be leaving just a few people up to the gallery, speaks volumes. This is the first budget advice to keep this house practically closed in front of the Austrian population – and that is a scandal in itself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Thanks to the Greens!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Because you have fueled the population!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Not "thanks to the Greens", but thanks to your unecological, unsocial, unbalanced and uneconomic savings policy! They will not abolish democracy in Austria! And democracy means that people can also express their legitimate displeasure – just as you can speak freely here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Only if you fit!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have for your clients, for a much smaller group of people, which I also grant legitimate concerns, at Ballhausplatz with a demonstration of farmers with tractors – as said: legitimate concerns! – over 1 billion schilling fought. But for those who now also register their legitimate concerns, you prefer to only build fences and cause police to appear with batons! That is against the spirit of democracy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: We have a rule of law!]] That's where I ask you: Where was the rule of law in the demonstrations of farmers? [[Abg. Großruck: Admit your election defeat!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We are in the second republic and not in the state!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fifth, you open a bottle This package is art- and culturally hostile. They have not saved anything in all the promotions that affect the economy. The economy can continue to hold its hands. I am surprised that Mr Haselsteiner has actually said very little about this, which is why the economy does not have to experience any cuts in its funding, although we know that these subsidies are partly less efficient and can be disbursed. On the other hand, in the arts and culture industry – an area which is also an economic factor in Austria – funding is reduced by 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! One word on the particular anti-feminine nature of this package: If the Minister of Finance said yesterday that it would not intervene in the statutory retirement age, I must reply to him: That's not true! Minister! They reach out to all women who have a better qualification – and thank God this is a growing number! – which at least aim at matura level or professional training and achieve, very well. You break the equal treatment package manually! A simple invoice shows: 37,5 years of contributions are deducted from the retirement age, which results in: 55 minus 37,5 equals 17.5. That is to say, all women who have a slightly higher qualification beyond the age of 17 1/2 years can no longer take advantage of the statutory retirement age! That means you got rid of the equal treatment package cold and broke it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to address another point that is important to me. It may be a small point, but saving starts in the small area. I can't understand why, on the one hand, you cut the "child garden billions" to 600 million, but in other areas you don't seem to care about a few hundred million. There will now be a huge number of accompanying laws – you yourself have addressed them – with the budget 1996/97, hundreds of people have said. They have cheered a lot into these accompanying laws, which on the one hand does not belong there, and on the other hand, what – and this is particularly Arge – will also lead to additional expenditure, such as the so-called privatisation of the Federal Experimental and Research Institute Arsenal. They know that under the regime of Seibersdorf, a suspension of this institution will lead to enormous additional costs. These are not calculations by the Greens, but calculations by the Finance Guarantee Society and the Alpine Trustee Hand. This model will cost some 200 million schillings. Federal Minister! I would rather have used this 200 million schilling to create new kindergartens. And besides – and that's even worse! - set It is thus once again a step towards the inability of the public authorities to act, especially in the ecological field, with objective review bodies which are not somehow dependent on commercial bodies. The Arsenal Research Institute warned about the first place in the Chernobyl reactor accident quite exactly ten years ago. ==References== May, when it came to protecting the people from the atomicly contaminated rain at the May-Märschen, warned in time. It was rebuffed by the government at the time. It's not supposed to be insecure the population, it's called. - But she was right. And after that, she was also actively trying to check the food, produce objective samples and has done ecologically groundbreaking things in many areas. A programme is currently being worked on at the Arsenal research institute to find out or find those responsible for pollution, businesses that illegally derive dirt water at night in rivers and streams. This is a very important programme. It is also a programme that saves the costs that the government can save the removal of old loads – if this research institute remains commercially independent, science and scientific truth and is not subject to commercial lobbying and certain interests that question this objectivity. Especially a research institution such as Seibersdorf, which is very active on the road even in very problematic research areas such as genetic release experiments, should not be subject to this independent research institute Arsenal. Federal Minister! I would ask you to explain to us here why you are buying these 200 million Schilling extra costs and thus weakening the possibilities of the Republic of Austria for ecological reviews! - I don't understand that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In your speech yesterday, you mentioned the Federal Forest. They note, however, that there are important environmental concerns that must be taken into account in the event of privatisation. Federal Minister! I believe that, given the Austrian economic structure, the importance of tourism and also the leisure and recreational economy, the Federal Forest sector is a very important public area and that much better and more careful consideration should be given to what happens to the Federal Forests. In fact, it could quickly become a very wrong account because of the fact that supposed savings or supposed privatisation proceeds very quickly lead to dramatic additional burdens or also to losses in other areas. Therefore, my appeal to you: Rethinking Once again, this measure! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are not in principle opposed to privatisations. In the banking sector, in the case of participation in undertakings that can operate in a commercial market accessible area, we also see no reason for the exercise of public property rights. But where the market fails, where it is concerned with the production of the cost-truth, where it is also about the interests of future generations and important industries, the public sector is required. It is shortsighted to adopt this public responsibility from the perspective of a very short-term savings target. You are no longer certain that environmental objectives will be pursued. Much has happened in the past, especially in the Federal Forests. I miss any critical attitude if the Federal Forests are to be done in the same way as the shares in any bank. – The forest is not any bank or insurance institution or any travel agency! This is a future capital for Austria – even for future generations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point: We from the Greens have made a great deal of effort and presented a detailed budget programme before the election. It is clear to us that short-term measures, which are necessary, must be implemented in the case of current revenue and expenditure flows, and we have also proposed such measures in the field of health and disease financing, road construction, military and urgent disarmament. That is to say, we have also proposed short-term measures. But what really characterizes the green approach and what your budget programme lacks is a little further-looking view, a view that goes beyond the magical date set by the EU in 1997, which would enable real structural reforms. This view would open up another form of saving, which unfortunately hardly anyone is currently talking about in Austria. Saving not only means taking back expenses or increasing revenue, but saving also means – and that seems to have gotten away from your ideas at all – avoiding damage and costs for damage repairs, not even letting these costs arise. – And we have many costs of this kind! Again, this is not based on the calculations of the Greens, but on calculations by the University of Economics, the Wifo and similar institutions. Transport accidents, for example, are difficult to quantify. The University of Economics indicates an approximative value of 40 billion schilling, which is much more than the entire science budget, to well a quarter more! Or the forest death... – Yes, but you can also handle it as easily as it happens today in road traffic. [[Abg. Grandruck: Life costs money!]] You can easily buy hundreds of dead or seriously injured. We will not be able to avoid it completely, I will give you the right thing, but we are doing far too little, and in this area we can save a lot of social, ecological and, above all, humane! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The cost of the forest death – including the cost of paying or paying – whether it be for private forest owners, whether for the public sector, counts the Wifo with 1 to 2 percent of the gross domestic product, so billions! Old load renovations – estimates for Austria: 30 billion schilling. Only the most urgent need is quantified with 6 billion schilling. You know: The Mitterendorf valley, many untightly landfills, all of that causes billions of costs. And above all, pollution continues, and it is done too little to slow down or stop at least now. The sickness and hospital costs are an area that is still growing and exploding. But we do too little to get to the causes. We need better work medical equipment in Austria. It must refer to all workers, not just those employed in large enterprises. We need better health care. But what is happening, for example, with the saving of birth aid, is more likely to lead in the wrong direction, because in this area, too, children will be saved. That is the aspect we are missing from the Greens in particular. We miss this far-reaching, far beyond 1997 aspect, which, admittedly, would only be carried in two, three, four years, but if these structural reforms do not start right now – and they do not seem to start – then we will never come to these savings. I therefore urgently request – in fact, Mr Finance Minister, under the law, under federal budgetary law – that these costs, these forecastings, the costs of a neglected, better legal system, a neglected, better administration be calculated. And I urge you to work with this House, with the Budget Committee, and to put a new national economic account on a new basis. What we need for Austria is an ecological national economic account, a national economic account, which, in particular, feels obliged not to cause damage at all, because then we will hopefully be able to save ourselves such dramatic, unsocial and unbalanced savings packages in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3331	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3353	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a fundamental consensus in this country, and this basic consensus is called saving. – Save, on the one hand, to secure people’s prosperity in the long term, save, on the other, in order to preserve the political scope for action for the future. It is clear that this does not go without sacrifice. Each and every one must help to avoid endangering this basic consensus. Each individual must give something to get something later. Finally, each individual must be prepared to put a little back for the good of the state gannet. This is hard, especially for the workers – no question! As a trade unionist, ladies and gentlemen, I know what I am talking about, but just as well I know that the Austrians were aware of their responsibilities at all times. I would like to express my sincere thanks to them from this point of view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we are discussing the federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997 today at first reading, we must say that this basic consensus of saving is, of course, noticeable at all corners and ends: No resort, no budget chapter remains spared. However, a major burden of consolidation – that is undisputed – is borne by the social sector. Nearly one third of the 100 billion schilling to be spent go to the social account. If some believe that the social sector is next to the officials of the great losers of consolidation, like others are concerned about the future, about social security, I must object first and can calm the latter. In turn, I must say to those who are plagued by the future: There's no need for anyone to be afraid of our social system, it's not how many professional pessimists believe to know every day, at the end, but quite the contrary: This consolidation programme has not least enabled us to maintain the social security system. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The social network does not and still does not pass through anyone who actually needs help. The measures put in place today do not undermine or eliminate the long and hard-to-earth social achievements of yesterday, but rather will be safeguarded for tomorrow. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To the address of those who always think that we are too social and exploit the social state, it is said: That's just not right. The opposite is true. The most recent statistics of the Institute of Economic Research confirm this. Austria's social expenditure is in no way in the top line in international comparison with a share of around 30 percent of GDP, but only in the average of European countries. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at social reforms in detail, we can see that they are primarily not aimed at cutting or abolishing existing rights. The primary objective is to eliminate certain abuses, to close gaps in law and to eliminate inequalities. As an example, I would just like to address the active labour market policy, which does not result in any reductions in the financial resources. Although expenditure will be stabilised at 1995 level, the labour market service will also provide more money from the pots of the European Social Fund and will therefore be available in the future. But there is also the intensively debated increase in expectations from 26 to 28 weeks for a new entitlement to unemployment benefit in savings periods such as these. This is undoubtedly a success of the trade unions which have decided to reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, the planned measures are intended to call for the abuse of undeclared work and illegal employment, because it must not be the case that the social system is repeatedly being discredited. Assigned: It will be difficult to find a way out of social hardship, but I am confident that we will succeed. Now to a second area, namely that of pensions. As you all know, in the last year's election debate, we Socialists have intervened to ensure that there is no intervention in existing pensions. We have kept this promise, because our pension system is even safeguarded by current reforms. The statutory retirement age remains unchanged for early retirement at 55 or 60 years. We were able to avoid abrupt changes through manageable transitional arrangements. In the end, more justice in the system is achieved through the increased consideration of the insurance and contribution months. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I could list many other measures that have been put in place for long-term social security purposes. However, I would like to take up another point of view at this point. If economic researchers are to be believed, the world economy is on the threshold to the third millennium in a break. Markets will promote global, trade relations of liberal, eastern opening and new competitors in Asia's low-cost countries. Europe's economic development is more down than upward. The unemployment rate is rising, growth is falling, it is again openly talk of recession and demands to secure the location, long-term reforms and the magic word "flexibilisation". However, this is often meant by lower flexibilization: Wage costs are to be reduced, regular working hours are also extended to weekends, and many entrepreneurs are ultimately concerned with cost reduction programmes at the expense of workers. Yesterday, ÖAAB has discovered the magic word "flexibilisation" with his Obmann Höchtl, but it seems that the train "flexibilisation" has long been on rails that many things have happened that the train has been out of the station for a long time. Probably the ÖAAB is now still looking that it can catch the last buffer and jump it up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have read very precisely the opinions and the press release, but I have not been able to see benefits for the workers as a representative of the workers. This issue, made by Mr Höchtl, would have been without a doubt – and I would have accepted it there! – by colleagues Dr. Stummvoll. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It can also represent an employee's economic interests!]] Then he should read the press release of his group colleague Neugebauer, and then he should deal with Mr Neugebauer on this question, which does not share this statement, I believe, that this press release should be read. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr. Dr. Haselsteiner said that there would be a "Njet" on reforms in working time, he would also say this against better knowledge. Of course, there's been a lot of things. The spokesperson of the Liberal Forum, Mr Mag. Peter, he'll judge it. He represents the same views here. There's a lot of things there. Austrian workers are flexible and we will become even more flexible. But one thing I would like to tell you again and again, without repeating my position in principle and the position of trade unions as a whole on the subject of flexibilization: A "Njet" to your ideas, as you imagine the flexibilization, will exist. There will only be flexibility if there are advantages for both sides, especially clearly recognizable benefits for workers. But I do not see these in your proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these demand programmes, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow us in our highly developed country – nor will we allow them to do so because the productivity of our workers still reaches a high level and the unit labour costs are competitive in international comparison. But in addition to the magic word "flexibilization", other demands – well-acquired workers' rights – have also appeared in recent days and weeks: Abolish the execution because it is obsolete, abolition of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly, the holiday grant, the Christmas remuneration, because it is no longer contemporary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will also give a clear rejection to all these demands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this economically difficult situation, to consolidate the public budget is not an easy task, although necessary, to prevent negative consequences for the country and all employment groups. The consolidation, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore necessary in the general interest. As a representative of one of the largest trade unions in our country, I recognise the consolidation course of the Federal Government. Although it is a compromise between the most diverse interests, it is a common way of consolidating our federal budget and securing the industrial location of Austria. Although I know that there are still many structural reforms - I am thinking only of the hospital area - I am aware that we can only get the core of our social state if we put funding on a new safe basis and increase the reliability of the meeting. However, I would like to stress once again that fiscal consolidation can only be part of an overall approach in which measures to safeguard and create jobs are put in place. Budget consolidation and employment policies have to be almost Siamese twins. I therefore call for investment in industry, infrastructure, innovation, education and skills to be made in parallel with the savings, because only in this way will we be able to secure existing jobs, to create new ones and, third, to secure the long-term industrial location of Austria. We, the workers, stand for our responsibility and are at any time ready for further meaningful reforms. But it is also up to the entrepreneurs to show courage and to prove that something lies to them about this country and its people. In this sense, I call on the government to involve the social partners in the future, even if this is not seen by any political group in this country – we have heard this from this speaker's desk today. However, I believe that this is useful, because only together will it be possible to implement the measures recently developed with the Federal Government to ensure the location and employment of workers. Ladies and gentlemen! Social security only ensures economic success. This maxim has been proven over and over again. Those countries that are trying to achieve success with liberal regulations will have to take note of this sooner or later. That is why I am pleased that we have not had a reconstruction of the social state in line with the model of England or France. Even though many demand this over and over again. Make jobs: their and fire!, and the class of working some won't exist with us. The trade unions in this country were and remain guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3450	President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3480	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no harm in expressing a certain social partnership axis, Mr Nürnberger, here. Even if we do not agree in all the details, I do believe that fundamental consensus is one of ours. [[Abg. Nürnberger: That would be bad!]] And I think that's good. This is good for social peace and stability in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are debating today the probably largest savings and reform package in the history of the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen, a package of 100 billion schillings, a package that amends about 100 laws, a package in which two budgets are to be discussed and decided for the first time under one, then, one must say, this is an extraordinary event. This is not business as usual, not the usual daily policy, which is more: This is the design of the future, ladies and gentlemen. In this context, I must say one thing very clearly: I have paid very good attention to all opposition speakers. The opposition speeches proved to me, ladies and gentlemen, that there is basically no realistic alternative to this package. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then you've taken a bad look, Mr. Cot.]] Mr President, I should like to thank For the first time, I have understood correctly why all three opposition parties have lost votes and mandates during the last election, because their patterns of conduct have said this: We explain what is not going on – and the government should say how it is going. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] This pattern of behaviour does not mean people in our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is also the classical difference between government policy and opposition policy. The opposition points to, criticizes what's bad, what's not going on, partly with an arrogance... [[Abg. Meisinger: How was that in Tyrol?]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Who also shows you!]] Mr Haselsteiner! You know, I appreciate you as a successful entrepreneur, but in the arrogance that you speak from your words, one should assume that you are in possession of absolute truth and wisdom. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is you, Mr. Colleague!]] Be so honest: You are not in this possession, Mr. Hazelsteiner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You and the Nuremberger, you own them!]] It was not in the sense of the credibility of politics either, Mr President. – I wouldn’t have said that if you weren’t constantly calling in here – to go here, to make a bump of paper, and to explain on the one hand, there’s no time to see through it, but on the other hand, to pretend that you’ve looked through everything with all the shame. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Well, you have them!]] It was a double mill that you opened yourself. Either you worked it through, then you could talk and criticize here – or You couldn't work it through, then you talked about something you didn't even know. Decide for one of the two variants! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Haselsteiner! I know that not every successful entrepreneur must also be a successful politician. I know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: I must say that's arrogance!]] Mr Haselsteiner! Just because you are a businessman, you know that there are a number of developments... [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: It is arrogance to a successful entrepreneur to agree on political ability!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: And that of a Secretary General of a Chamber, where I am a mandatory member!]] It is precisely because you are a businessman who knows that there are a number of developments which escape the influence of government policy. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is arrogance, Mr. stupid!]] Today we have the cheap competition from Eastern Europe, the globalisation of competition, and this is not the result of a government policy, since we have to create new framework conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You should not take the word "arrogance" into your mouth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You should not take the word "arrogance" into your mouth!]] Look, with the volume does not increase the strength of your arguments, Mr Hazelsteiner! You should say that very clearly once again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should discuss this honestly and appropriately. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: Do this!]] This is not a platform for day hacking, for tyrates and for empty culprits. We have time to discuss this package by the end of April. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: But please do not judge the package!]] That is what Parliament is here to do. Mr Haselsteiner! To your statements: I was surprised how sad you have spoken here about how much work we're about to do. We are elected by the people to work here, not just to pursue economic policy and to give word aid from us. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: You will not want to teach me how to work!]] That's hard work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I admit, that's hard work. We have also negotiated often until four o'clock in the last few weeks, and we have worked Saturday, we have worked Sunday. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: This is an argument of arrogant "arguments"!]] That's still ahead of you. We're not afraid to admit: That's hard work. These are also painful measures. No question at all! [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: You're deceiving Parliament!]] They have not presented a constructive proposal at all. You go here and say: I'm overwhelmed, I can't figure this out. You have parliamentary staff paid out of tax resources, you have club workers paid out of tax resources, who will help you to look through this package, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: You mock Parliament, Mr. stupid!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: You're deceiving Parliament!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: You're hacking in the chamber! They're deceiving Parliament!]] This is the difference between policy as a guarantee of the future and the hack of the day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Without your bureaucrats you wouldn't be anything!]] Why are you so excited? [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Not at all! Not at all!]] So excited can one be only if one believes to be in possession of absolute wisdom. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: But you have it!]] Then, of course, one is starved when one learns that one is not in possession of absolute wisdom, Mr. Freisenschlager! [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: The wisdom already has you! The Members who are entrepreneurs are supposed to keep their mouth shut as far as possible here!]] Mr Haselsteiner! You know me long enough, I'm the last one who works fine dyeing here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3895	Ladies and gentlemen! If you spread the excitement evenly today, then we do well. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: We don't want to be arrogant!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: If you see the entrepreneurs of political inability...!]] – Mr Dr. Stumbling, you are speaking! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3935	I repeat once again so that there is no misunderstanding here, but I do not make any actual correction. I said: Not every successful entrepreneur must be a successful politician. There are examples from the history of all countries. That's all I said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I must say one last thing in the sense of my own credibility: Of course, this package also contains measures that I do not like. Of course, I believe that we also need to make a fine cut in the committees. It's not like some believe. We are on the verge of committee work. [[Calls and calls at the ÖVP and the Liberal Forum!]] I say, Mr Minister, for example: All those provisions that de facto have retroactive character are harmful to the image of the Austrian economy. There is still a need for fine-tuning and clarification in the Committee – even if we are on the package as a whole and do not think of re-enacting the package. This package, ladies and gentlemen, is a guarantee of the future for our country and a guarantee of the future for jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e3983	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4016	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very interesting what has now been heard by the speakers of the social partners, which has certainly meant that a Secretary-General of a forced organisation, namely the Federal Chamber of Commerce, is accusing a forced member like Mr Hazelsteiner, saying: It does not have to be a good Member for every good entrepreneur. But allow me, my colleague, to give you that back: It really does not have to be appropriate for every chamber bureaucrat to give the entrepreneurs advice, because in the end it is you who have created a state of affairs in this country that, because the economy was placed under the cheese bell of the chamber apparatus, both the Chamber of Labour and the Federal Chamber of Commerce, we have 700 billion shilling in ten years and the economy is on the ground, while your chamber bureaucrats are rewarded with special pensions for this failure. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That is what we must criticize in our country! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's nothing stupid about this and I'm saying, We are elected by the people to work. – Yes, Mr Dr. stupid, but you have also been chosen by the people to keep what you promised before the election. Federal Chamber of Commerce: Taxation of workers from service companies, under the title "A European problem requires a European solution". How safe I am the jobs?, that Federal Chamber of Commerce, which you represent here, asks in a recently published prospectus. First of all, we must reduce VAT rates in order to be competitive, second, to reduce additional labour costs and, at the same time, to introduce energy taxation and third, to allow the development of the special expenditure scheme so that those with more incomes can also make more self-sufficiency. Explain to me, Dr. stupidly, what has been incorporated from these points into the new government measures that you support with your voice and to what have you said? – No point has flown in here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I also say: You're not supposed to sell people for stupid, but the opposite is done. The Federal Chamber makes a signature action against the drinking tax – but in the house you vote for the maintenance of the beverage tax, Dr. Stummvoll! That's the reality! [[Congratulations and oh-noise with the liberals.]] The Federal Chamber calls for a reduction in VAT rates to strengthen competitiveness – but here in the House Maderthaner and the stupid vote against the reduction of VAT. That's the reality! That's how you're doing politics! [[Congratulations and oh-noise with the liberals.]] You can't talk with a split tongue in the long run. Our task will be if you have successfully told the people before choosing to prove to you that you can't make a successful policy with this method for long. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not only the Federal Chamber, but also the Trade Union, also the Chamber of Workers, send urgent letters to the parliament and to the delegates, such as the Carinthian President of the Chamber of Workers Josef Quantsnigg. He is also a social partner. He now writes to us that we can work to ensure that these maladministrations in the planned toll do away with the disadvantages of competition for individual states. Now I don't know myself anymore: As the social partners praise how all of this works, the people with a Federal Economic Chamber programme will be brought to the fore, which, however, is no longer involved in your policy at all. Or did you go down in the negotiations? – Usually you would have to stand here today in the Adams costume – and not publish the Federal Chancellor so! You seem to have been drawn to that during the negotiations on the table. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Between the Chamber of Commerce and the Federal Government is a small difference!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the president of the Chamber of Workers of Carinthia speaks: He called on Members to take action against the toll regime. The Chamber of Labour of Tyrol states that the package is socially unbalanced. The Chamber of Labour Salzburg states that this package is not socially differentiated. Ladies and gentlemen! Not we say that, from your side that happens! And that is what I would like to address to the Minister. I believe that you are simply based on false conditions, as you would like to put this government budget in order at the same time as difficult economic situations. One cannot simply ignore the fact that today we have a record of unemployed, empty order books, that we have too strong an anti-capital tax today, and then we wonder that things do not get better if we continue to turn on the tax and load screw. In recent days, you have received reports that there is so much short work in Austria alone in the current month, as it did not last year – and last year was already a difficult year – that unemployment is increasing dramatically. They put themselves here and say: We're doing better now, there's going to be an offensive again! – How credible are you when you know that you have already promised us everything possible in transit? – That totally went into pants with the transit. You can no longer trust in Tyrol, because then people will tell you something else about how your transit contract has affected the population. Or on the question of EU taxation: 12 billion Schilling, Mr. Vrannitzky wrote to the people, costs EU accession. We had to spend 50 billion schilling from public funds in 1995; 34 billion schillings will be needed in 1996! Ladies and gentlemen! How seriously do you actually take it with the true information of the population? Or you say a third new revenue, two thirds of savings, but in your Ministry of Finance there is a paper on the financial balance, which allows you to calculate that 79.9 billion schillings are new revenue, say more burdens, and only 66 billion schillings in expenditure cuts. Federal Minister of Climate! With all understanding: Please do not think that we are so naïve that we are losing you that 79.9 billion schilling on new loads is a third and that two thirds are 66 billion schilling! - I don't know what school you went to. You said you studied 32 semesters. Maybe you haven't completed a training course yet. Explain to us what new method of calculation you want to introduce in Austria, so that this is true of what you have given us here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are invited to participate, but at the same time it means that we cannot change anything here in Parliament at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, if we are already talking about counter-tax, we should ask: How are you against it, Minister of State? How do you decide to do so, as you said yesterday? Consump tion. – That’s what the IHS says on the same day, further withdrawal of consumption, which causes demand failures, means a way into recession. Mr Klima recommends a ban on consumption. And I'm also saying why you order the ban on consumption? – Because They speculate that the Austrians, who are a very economical people, will dissolve their savings as compensation. I'm telling you, the opposite will happen: The Austrians are afraid of this policy, the Austrians are afraid of what is being produced here, otherwise 58 percent would not say in a recent survey that the government is not able to deal with the problems, and they will not plunder their savings so that you have your economy in Austria, but they will continue to form more reserves with what they deserve monthly so that they will make provision for times of crisis accordingly. – This is a completely false assumption that you are making of economic policy. Or: How can you be offensively opposed if the economists of all the faculties confirm today that the isolated introduction of energy taxation without simultaneously reducing labour costs will lead to a reduction in the number of jobs between 8 000 and 10 000 jobs per year? Ladies and gentlemen! This is not an offensive counter-strategy you have given! Or you expect us in the trade union paper to create 30 000 jobs when special expenditure is reduced, because then people pay back the funded housing loans earlier. So this is a little nonsense about how economic policy is being established. Or you say you want to make export offensives; there will be an active labour market promotion policy. First you cut them by billions, and then you say: Perhaps something comes from the EU! – Yes, it won't be that way because you didn't use it anymore. The ÖGB women are our witnesses, who are already publishing today that the measures taken by this government will lead to another banishment such as women from the labour market. And that's where you talk about an active, successful labour market policy! As far as the students are concerned: I have no reason at all to focus on this issue. But you can't go here and say, It's all right, and now we're going to cut length times width! As you said yesterday, the identification of tax income is now being carried out more efficiently for all occupational groups. – Yes, how efficient is it when there are students who can be found from very wealthy families in which there is great property and wealth? – These are still beneficiaries of scholarships, but a child from a household in which an average income is obtained is no longer awarded a scholarship even today if the annual income is slightly increased. You know that very well. Make You're more efficient there! Turn off the abuse if the calculation bases are not in order, then save all these things on the other side! I believe that in Austria – to talk about alternatives here too – if we change the structures, we should introduce an educational check. Enter an educational check for all professional groups alike! The apprentice should have the same educational opportunities as the student. He can finance his training for a certain period of time with this educational check. What is more, he has to finance himself, or he can finance his studies with a long-term loan that he can repay later, when he is trained as an academic. But we need equal opportunities, ladies and gentlemen! These are structural changes that we are fighting for, because we want to ensure equal opportunities at all levels for the citizens of that country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] They always claim that we would not show any alternatives. – Of course we do, Mr Novotny! But we must first point out that you are constantly saying something different than you decide in the negotiations and then anchor it in your papers. This is evident in the topic of "flexible working hours". Mr Nürnberger goes out of here and says: This will not be the case for workers that flexible working hours will lead to an extension of daily working hours carried out on the back of workers. You said that before choosing on leaflets: "Deregulation of working time means availability of workers at any time; Extension of daily normal working time to 10 to 13 hours means loss of income due to the loss of overtime supplements." – That’s what the SPÖ said before the election. Dear people, now it's all about it, the SPÖ has said, now you have to choose SPÖ, otherwise the liberals with the ÖVP will eliminate it. What am I reading today? That Mr Sallmutter and Mr Trade Union President, Mr Vergestnich, believe that flexible working hours should be created, that daily working hours should be extended over a longer period of time, but not overtime, but with a time balance, with a time balance. Ladies and gentlemen! How seriously do you keep it with the statements on your leaflet? There you are the fighters for the overtime surcharges of the workers. Now you're saying, We'll sort this out with more leisure time. – This is a double strategy that will not go on, ladies and gentlemen! – You never understand anything. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Not understood again! It's exactly the opposite!]] You never understand anything because you are adaptable like a rainworm when it comes to changing your line. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Better than you do!]] And you've done that a lot. You can't say: We fight for overtime supplements! And now at once you say: No, it's not that important anymore, now we're making a time-consuming budget! – That may be reasonable or unreasonable. But don't pretend to represent and protect workers' interests if you start negotiations at the same time 14 days after the election to call into question overtime supplements in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're ill-informed!]] I am of the opinion that overtime supplements are very useful, and that is because those workers who work hard should also be able to earn something. And whoever can earn something will also be a good consumer. For the diligent people in this country do something: They build houses, set up apartments, buy consumer goods with what they deserve. They turn this off and say, You can work more daily, ten hours, twelve hours, get a time balance, but you don't deserve any more! – That means that with more working time you earn less. And then I'm supposed to have more free time?- Oh, my God! – This is a thing that won’t work, Mr. Economist, Professor Novotny, because that’s a cocky nonsense! [[Congratulations to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You must inform yourself!]] That's your only argument you have. You shake your head because you're used to not contradicting your students. But here you should take a training... – Well, you have your fixed income. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not true what you're saying!]] That's not a problem. You're a pragmatized official. In the end, it's no longer your concern. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You have to tell him who has such ideas!]] You're doing it! You're negotiating this! You don't read the paper, colleague Kostelka! Today, Mr ÖGB President Vergestnich lets us judge and, 14 days ago, Mr. Sallmutter – to read in the daily newspaper "Die Presse" – will no longer be overtime supplements, but the daily working time will be extended to ten hours and more, and people will receive a budget of time. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why don't you tell yourself what the party's opinion is?]] This is unpleasant to you, because it makes it visible that you once again lied to the people before the election, once again led them behind the light. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] To the address of the ÖVP: Don't be so sensitive and don't say now that you didn't say all this with the flexibility of working time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Calculation period!]] No, Mrs. Ridi is dementing Steibldas today. But today's edition of the "Small Newspaper" says that you already agreed this question between ÖAAB and Wirtschaftsbund in the summer of 1995. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But that's not a SPÖ organization!]] Mr Höchtl, who has said today that this is not possible, must now be answered: Who's lying now: the woman Steibl or he? Has he said the untruth today or the woman Steibl in the newspaper that has said, as early as the summer of 1995, we decided that we are working more daily but no more overtime is paid? – A fine policy that starts when one does not even admit how to change the course in this country. We are therefore telling you: The economy has to get optimism again! Therefore, the line: degressive transfers. The better one deserves, the less subsidies he needs from the state. That would have been a new approach! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second point: A country which is engaged in spending 54 billion schilling alone at the federal level in 1995 for subsidies must ask itself whether there would be no potential for savings that would prevent citizens from being taken into the bag on the other hand. Thirdly, public administration. A slim state cannot be created by juggling with service plans, as did the Minister. He then distributed 7 000 postal services and said: Now I have no obligation to do so, now I have saved! – They are still there, they have not resigned, they do not live on the moon and, of course, want to continue to have a salary, they also want to get a pension. For example, an approach to reforming the public service would be to introduce a cost bill here, as we did in Carinthia, for example in the construction department. We are saving with the cost bill introduced among free-lance speakers – Mr Minister, look at it – 70 million alone in a small department each year on property and personnel expenditure. Yearly! And if you make this Austrian-wide and introduce a public service bill only, where everyone knows their cost offices, where everyone knows what to spend, where everyone knows which budget they are allowed to manage, then you save under guarantee – but without making people the jobs dispute. They thus achieve a more efficient organisation of the company, and the public service will suddenly know what costs, what competition and what savings potential are. – That must be the direction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth point: Privileges. No one prevents you as a minister and supervisory body from the National Bank to the social security system, and there at last the privileges are reduced. The saving of the National Bank's pensions, where there were deposits of 23 billion schilling for only 1,000 pensioners, would free up a huge savings potential and would not make it necessary to introduce new taxes. Or: Summary of social security institutions. You all promised that before the election. – Why is this not happening now? You promised! For example, Mr Stummvoll has published a issue in which he shows how economic policy is to be shaped differently. Or: Contributions from the board; a solidarity contribution by chamber organisations from contributions to the financing of employment policy. Or: The tax system is disrupted, but at the same time the tariffs are reduced. This is crucial because we have to be internationally competitive. And then we also have room to reduce the additional wage costs. For, ladies and gentlemen, we know as well as everyone else that the question of competitiveness is a very crucial one. It is about how we are dealing with our medium-sized economy in the future. The large industry is not very aware of it. The large international industry is located where cost advantages are given. And if you are glad that we have General Motors, if you are happy that we have BMW, if you are happy that we have other large international companies with us, then I can draw your attention to the fact that, with EU accession alone, car companies such as BMW and Mercedes no longer tax their profits in the countries where the profits are generated, but to a greater extent transfer them to Ireland's tax paradise in order to build a "parking space" for their profits in Dublin and then to re-export them as cheap loans for their business daughters worldwide. – That’s the reality! Sage You ask the House to stop such an inadequacy and to ensure, across the EU, that, like the small and medium-sized economy, which pays its taxes faithfully and correctly, these large international corporations also have to pay taxes where the profits, where the results arise. Otherwise, we will slowly become a shift station for profit-making interests, where jobs flow and we will no longer know how to finance everything. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is things that have been taken from practice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last point I would like to address to you, Minister of Climate Change, as regards offensive economic policy, is the question of general entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen! What does our medium-sized economy suffer so much today? – It suffers from the fact that everywhere the public sector operates, only more general entrepreneurship contracts are awarded, which are automatically awarded a 20 percent supplement, so that the person who places himself as a general contractor makes a profit without having to work. However, the subcontractor – as a rule the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs – is pushed down in such a way that he has to pay bad wages and no longer be able to make any payments in order to make his current investments again. That's bad! We also know that this is wrong and needs to be changed. There you have to go, up to the question: What about the European public procurement contracts? The French have put their entire transport technology under Kuratel for ten years with the closure of the internal market. They have said that there are no European calls for tenders there for ten years: The French railways, the French rail builders, the French wagon builders, the French locomotive builders do not write out Europe-wide, but they protect their area. The Austrians have been since 1. January 1995 with the EU and from the first day of the year, they have signed a Europe-wide invitation – you laugh! – with the result that today the SGP has cancelled the people and has no orders, with the result that the Jenbachers have to withdraw from this business at all, new business areas... – A single foreign locomotive! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This is a single foreign locomotive!]] Mr Blünegger will tell you something else today, because he works in such a business. Mr Minister, don't always let yourself be told about your bureaucrats, which really looks quite different! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this sector alone, there are at least 35 000 jobs. So you should consider how to put things back in order. These are just a few comments on our part that we want to make here. I also do not think that those measures you expect to release investment, such as the taxation of rental interest rates, will trigger a boom. You have to change the rent law, Mr Minister, because the rent law requires that everything that is made available as a rental interest reserve over a period of ten years must be available to tenants and to their interests in the renovation of the house. But if you now have to save 10 million Schilling rents in ten years and then tax, 5 million Schilling will go to the tax once, but you will have to present 10 million Schilling to the tenants. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Except they solve it! Investiv!]] Then the person concerned must, as it were, raise 5 million schilling from the substance. It won't work! That is a expropriation, but not a sensible tax, Mr Minister. This is not something that will lead to more investment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The ÖVP has also fallen once again on the issue of loss participations. I can send you your letter of 6. In November 1995, when there was a crack in the Coalition and the break was brought about. At that time the SPÖ also said: We want to abolish the losses. But ÖVP said: No, because there are thousands and thousands of jobs connected with it. Then Mr. Schüssel wrote to one who asked for it on 6 June. November 1995 – I quote –: The SPÖ has tried to delete losses during the budgetary negotiations. However, the EIA has not accepted this request, because we know very well how important this measure is for economic and investment activity. Do not be unsure by the SPÖ reports, but trust the ÖVP, which will not allow the loss to be removed. In addition, we will send you the economic programme, the Schussel-Dez-Course, so that you can get an accurate picture of the framework conditions offered by the ÖVP of the economy and the economic operators. Support us on the 17th. December!, it's there. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Hardly have you been re-elected, forget about that again. It's all sound and smoke, what you said. Loss participations have been removed, a few thousand jobs will be reduced in the construction and construction sectors, and this, where you would have to know, would have been a flagship for economic recovery. I am very sorry that you are offering us such areas of attack. It would be better if I, as a member of the opposition, would have to think more about where we could place the criticism. They really make it too easy for us, and, unfortunately, all of this is at the expense of the jobs and the economic future of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4337	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4358	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister Mag. Climate, you have indeed committed a heavy inheritance. You had the courage to say yesterday: As a Federal Minister, I take over the entire legal succession of my former ministerial colleagues. Androsch, Salcher, Vrnitzky, Lacina, Staribacher and now climate – yes, anyone must have accumulated the debts that you now assume with a universal legal succession and which now lead to this consolidation programme. Ladies and gentlemen of this House! Let's talk about the mistakes made in the past to learn from them for the future, why such a wealthy, such a beautiful country as Austria has been driven into a debt policy that brings us an interest rate ratio of almost 20 percent in the budget. Mr Finanzminister Klima! 20 percent of the net income of the federal government must be used to pay the interest for the debts your predecessors have received! – Since 1970 we have consistently had Social Democratic Finance Ministers, and since 1986 the Austrian People’s Party has been participating in everything together with the Social Democrats. I therefore understand the aggressiveness of my colleague: He speaks nothing but the bad conscience, the unheard-of pressure to decide things that he obviously knows are wrong. It is almost unbearable, however, if the superiority, the arrogance of a official who has not even sold a eraser rubber in his life, meet a successful businessman who has given here one of the best speeches I have heard in Parliament for a long time. I think that's self-evident. It is only questionable how Mr Stummvoll then wants to achieve this "fine" in the committees. We opposition representatives, Mr. Klima, lived until the 20th century. March 1996 of newspaper information, and I'm not working on phone. I start working very concrete and serious when I have documents on the table, documents that are hard and hard to find. That is why it is a sense to assume that we would not be willing to work hard and intensively on these questions. ==References== In March 1996, we were required to take note of what you have told the newspapers. In fact, you do not want to deal with Parliament at all. It is enough for you to agree on your social partnership bodies. You want to degradate us opposition politicians to statistics so that you can bring your parliamentary uses to the stage. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We're going to make the "fine cut" in the committees doesn't sound very promising, but we're going to make the "fine cut" in the committees. I agree, Dr. stupid! Let's make the fine cut in the committees! Let's start on 26. At 2 p.m. on 14 March, with the laws of the structural improvement package relating only to financial policy! I guarantee you, we'll meet until 24 o'clock. I am very excited if you will allow this to happen with your majority – red and black. Ladies and gentlemen! But let us look at the mistakes of the past in order to learn from them to see what you, Dr. stupidly, have done wrong in the great coalition for ten years to see what makes You have conjured up this financial crisis in which our beautiful country is now located. First of all, they abused Keynesianism. You've only read half of Keynes, who says – rightly – in the recession Deficit-Spending. They did not read the second side, however, on which it says that in good times these debts are being restored to make reserves. In this beautiful country of Austria, we are today on the eve of a new recession, which we hope will not become deep without any room for a design. We have even gone a step further in Austria – unfortunately, we are not alone in Europe, but we should not apologize for this –: We have public consumption, we have financed social benefits that we have promised our citizens about debt. That's one of the first errors in the economy, a mistake you can't make. We are very much indebted to investment in the future, but not to finance public consumption! This policy of promises has ultimately neglected investment policy. We have a shortage of infrastructure – think of the telecommunications sector, think of the transport sector: After 50 years of Second Republic, this country has not been able to complete its high-level road network. Although we have 78 billion schilling debts in the ASFINAG area, the high-level road network is still not finished. Our building budget is entirely covered by the fact that we have to pay the annuities of the ASFINAG. We cannot even repair new motorways, no, we now have to introduce a toll, a toll that has no tradition in Austria, which has no tradition in Germany, which has no tradition in Holland, but which is very likely to exist in the Romance language as a general motorway toad. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum]] What an impact this will have on a very important industry in our country, namely our guests who are not used to paying an entry price to Austria, will show the future. So we de-invest in the revenue of the state, we will lose some. Ladies and gentlemen! The second first mistake that has happened in recent years is belief in the regulation of the economy. Mr Dr. Stummvoll, you are the Secretary General of the Chamber of Commerce, but all the ASVG novels of the last ten years have been decided here in the House. Yeah, do you even know what you decided to do? – You have decided there a rage of regulation, which – if you actually go out into the establishments, when you get out of your ivory butt, you see that – has caused a bureaucracy that is almost unbearable. I know. They then go to the Federal Chamber Day and tell exactly the opposite. I am always admiring your prudence, but I would like to say once in your Chamber that you have agreed to all of this here in the House and that all the red tape expenses we have in the establishments have been decided by the Austrian People's Party votes here in the House! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A sentence on Mr Nürnberger, which I believe is a very important and indispensable social partner, because he understands one thing: that social partnership is a form of dealing with each other. Unfortunately, in his speech today, he has overlaid something: It is not good to turn to the speaker's desk of the High House and to say in the tone of the dictator: Njet, that will not happen, and attack a liberal group on the question of the flexibility of the working world without knowing its position. In this House, we should consider the question of the flexibility of the working world: What is marketable, what is customer-friendly, what is demand-based? - That's the point! If we want to make sales, if we need to add value to pay high wages in order to guarantee social security, we need to break our mind about this at the latest in this House: What is marketable, is customer-friendly? Staff protection is essential – it is indispensable because the employee is generally the more socially weak – but it must take place at the internal level. I am excited when Mr Nürnberger takes up the proposal to place the strength and strength in the works councils and in the company trusts, which are there to protect their employees from the invasion of the entrepreneur, but which also give them the opportunity to build a self-determined working world. No longer working hours are the goal, but more market-friendly working hours! Our proposal has been presented several times: The maximum annual working time should be 1 650 hours – everything else must be overtime, no question at all – the weekly working time 32 to 48 hours – everything must be overtime – and the maximum daily working time should be ten hours – everything must also be overtime. This does not result in overtime supplements being lost because the annual working time is the limit and everything that goes beyond is paid for as overtime. Ladies and gentlemen! The third mistake that we should be aware of for the future is the holding on to the welfare state. The welfare state has long exceeded the limits of its financial viability. For us, the social network is the most important contribution to this country's political culture. Someone who is not socially safe can't be free. Those who cannot be free cannot be creative, and those who are not creative cannot be productive. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is only a difference whether one sees the social network as a claim for everyone, including the wealthy, or whether one sees the social network as aid to those who cannot help themselves. There is no doubt that there is no solution to the casting can. The fourth point, ladies and gentlemen, is, at last, that of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen; at least in recent years you have made a policy in this direction: They have a profoundly disturbed relationship to equity. There is no equity policy in Austria; there is no risk capital market. All the funding policies you have targeted that you proudly announce in every speech are foreign capital promotions and thus indirect banking promotions. A genuine culture of equity does not exist in Austria. Export offensive is a keyword, company start-up is a keyword if this does not work on the basis of risk and equity. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Time flees. One last comment. – You have also approved one, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People’s Party and of Social Democracy: You have allowed sighting eyes to protect your clients, such as the social conditions of the competitive economy and those of the protected areas, to continue to disperse on a daily basis. A little string at the end, which unfortunately is reality: If 100 Austrians who are ASVG insured claim two cures in the year, the public officials claim ten. Now there are two options: One is abuse, or the state is the worst employer. I think it's the latter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4492	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4513	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister for Climate has said yesterday that he invites the critics to take along a piece of solidarity. I understood this, even today's debate, that the opposition parties are being invited to make their proposals, and I welcome this suggestion. But before that, I would like to say: Of course, it would be a little easier if the budget deficit had fallen from heaven, just as it has happened in agriculture, unfortunately: The yellow clouds rise, the hail falls, the harvest is destroyed, and now it is said to stand together in solidarity and limit the damage. But that's not the way it is: After all, you have brought about this state of affairs, which is now to be combated in solidarity, and according to your own figures, the budget deficit has increased from 1.9% in 1992 to 6.1% in 1995. In January, according to official data of the Ministry of Finance, it was 5.5 percent. Let us hope that it will not be 6.5 percent in another two months. But nice: You say that is snow from yesterday, why complain about this shed milk, you invite the opposition parties to make their proposals and also find something good in this programme. Okay, there's something good about it. For example, according to all the rules of economic theory, it is extremely unlikely that this programme will not make a positive contribution to the current account. That must be so, and that will be so. To what extent, one can argue about it, but according to the reason, that must be so. What many critics have said about these two budgets is that structural reforms are missing. What structural reforms are these? Without a claim for completeness, I allow myself to bring some opportunities in your mind and ask you to at least consider whether you are going to address this at least in the remaining time – regardless of whether it will be one and a half or three years. First keyword: "Administrative reform"; I will do so as briefly as possible. First: Saving Hierarchy levels and shortening administrative decision-making, second: Avoiding multiple competences between ministries, thirdly: Contracting out as far as it's possible. This is possible wherever the contracts to be concluded with private individuals can be specified so precisely that monitoring is not more expensive than doing it itself, fourthly: the sad question of the billing of costs in the ministries. At present, we cannot even localise the spending drivers at the push of a button, not at the universities, nor anywhere else; fifthly, a reform of the salary scheme. Budgetary right keyword: incentives for the services themselves to make savings. This tag has already fallen. Unfortunately, I miss the word "autonomy" in the coalition agreement or in the German Chancellor's speech only at the universities. But that would be the vehicle to enforce these incentives. We are eagerly waiting for the budget programme in autumn. I hope it will have a better future than the May 1995 budget programme. Above all, we expect binding and verifiable requirements in this budget programme. Third key: Parliamentary budget process: There are approaches. Since last autumn, we have been discussing informally the rights and obligations of the Budget Committee, and there will be a survey on this subject in May. However, there must also be sanctions if there are still no cost estimates in law and no sanctions are provided for in this case. I would also like to draw attention to a consultative study by the social partners, which has already discussed this in 1995. Fourth keyword: Reform of the financial balance or the financial constitution. Mr Minister, your announcement that the financial compensation will be extended until the year 2000, is largely a dangerous threat rather than a special performance mark, for how often should this law be extended in this form, with marginal changes here and there? What needs to be achieved here – and again I refer to the summer social partnership study, which have no copyright, no monopoly on these statements: Once again, it must be possible to establish the link between responsibility for expenditure, revenue and responsibility for tasks. Mr Haselsteiner, I think this has already been suggested today. Negative examples, always the same: State teachers, housing promotion, hospital financing. It must also be possible to involve countries more closely in tax responsibilities. In the long run, it is not a question of the countries spending the money that the federal government takes. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] Fifth keyword: Building of housing. Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I already see that we have a crisis in the construction industry and that unemployment in the construction industry is increasing. But it must also be said that Austria traditionally has a very high share of the construction industry in the social product. In the long run, it cannot be expected that we will put 30,35 billion schillings a year in this sector, and at the same time we are missing the money for technology promotion, for a truly investment in the future that deserves this name. Because with all due respect: I give every homeowner the pleasure he has in his house, but that is essentially a consuming area. In the short term, work is being created, but not in the long run. So it must be discussed in the field of housing promotion whether it is possible to reduce the automatic dynamics. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have growing housing needs!]] Still, yeah. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Yes!]] But this will not continue in the long run. - I'm just saying: The money is there, but I think we're tending to use it wrong. It must also be said that the income limits are too high, Mr Haider, and that the repayment of funds must be possible according to the income development of the recipient. Of course, it must be possible to discuss stronger ecological criteria in the field of housing development in order to avoid the cost of follow-up. [[Abg. Eder: That's what happens!]] This happens partly, but too slowly, too slowly. We don't have time forever. On the subject of hospitals and health care – that would be the sixth keyword – I only stop for a short time. I'm just saying, In part, the incentives discussed here are misplaced at the government level. When it comes to the hospital area being too large because it is the most expensive area, and it is a matter of bringing people to outpatient care and to the established doctors, for example, a restraint for medical visits in the ordination goes exactly the wrong direction. He's driving people right into the hospital. It must be possible to reform the KRAZAF in such a way that those institutions that contribute the greatest resources there have, in part and absolute terms, most of the right to speak. It's just the other way around right now. This is not a clear line of responsibility that can lead to savings. In this area too, it would be necessary to think more about curative medicine and environmental standards in the consumer and also in the working world, as prevention against allergies, against occupational diseases and so on. Seventh keyword: Pension reform I think it all knows what is meant in principle. But at the moment I see no evidence that pensions for all occupational groups are really harmonised. I also miss a part of it, which is essential in the green pension model, namely the protection of people of old age even if they have no income; this is particularly true of women. Finally – last point and behind point –: Traffic: There are very simple possibilities, for example, for a small amount of long-term fiscal savings, for example by reducing the speed limits and imposing more alcohol controls on the prevention of accidents – as the directive must in general be, on prevention, and prevention in the transport sector, do not make investments which later result in more follow-up costs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That's an incomplete list. It's like sitting down for an hour. But when is the time to deal with this? This is the problem that I see primarily in the federal proposal for 1996 and 1997. He does not foresee any reforms to say that would be exaggerated, I believe that these are visible and that structural approaches are visible, but the vision of how this should continue for 1998 and 1999, neither from the budget accompanying laws nor from the Coalition Convention, nor from your speech, Mr Federal Minister. Another dangerous threat to this budget programme is that, in fact, half of it is actually a tax increase. You could take that alone. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You even asked!]] Of course! In our autumn budget programme, Mr President, we said: Reforms need time. You have to make reasonable preparatory work. Time passes until efficacy. And tax increases will be essential for this transitional period. We said that was a realistic assessment. We have not been rewarded in the elections for this realistic assessment. But I would like to stress once again: We have said that tax increases will be essential for the transitional period. It would have been nice if you had at least made temporary tax increases in sub-sectors, with a fixed timetable, so that the public can understand that at this time the pressure will be taken from these expenditures through reforms. A few sentences on your speech yesterday, Federal Minister Klima. – So that there is a broad acceptance of the population for this savings package, I think, is a somewhat misleading interpretation. The public takes note, as it were, of the fact that something is happening at last! That's quite natural! If one thinks for a whole year that the impression of inability to act by the Federal Government is compacting and compacting, just as it was the case in 1995, especially from the summer onwards, then one is glad when at last the government shows approaches to do what it is for, namely, to govern. So there is a certain relief that the government intends to do something about a situation that it has brought about itself; it cannot be said often enough. How the reactions will be when people notice what is actually happening to them with these accompanying laws, which, I think, will look quite different. Nor should you, Mr Federal Minister - you know that very well - remind yourself again and again that this is a 2 : 1 package. It cannot be according to your own figures from the Ministry of Finance. Even if you consider every single number contained in these documents to be true or at least credible: It is a 1 : 1 package. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: For the Federal Region!]] Yes, for the federal department. Minister! That's a bit of a shame! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: There are also 100 billion!]] I'm talking about 100 billion. It does not matter to the public whether its taxes rise, because a part flows into the federal government or because a part flows into the countries and communities. Figures must be for the citizens! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Save them too!]] Let's hope! Let us hope that the savings of the countries will come at all, Minister of State. Like a red thread, you said yesterday, through the programme is the concern about employment. Well, please: In the economic situation, this budget, like the Faust, is what we have to say. This is an economic triviality. And regardless of whether the growth rate of GDP will now be half a percent, as Mr Hazelsteiner says, or 1 percent or 1.5 percent: With average productivity growth in Austria from 2 to 3 percent – even more in a few years – employment can only fall under current conditions. Unemployment can only rise under these conditions. The fact that you are trying to do something through individual measures – especially in the context of the construction industry – is undisputed, but the macroeconomic effect, the effect in general, must have restrictive effects on the labour market – apart from the fact that yesterday's headline of the "standard": "Academic unemployment increases by double" has shown a sub-area where these measures will soon lead. Why all this in this short time? – That is why you have agreed to the Maastricht criteria and because Europe has not succeeded in making it clear to the politicians, the relevant social partners and so on that we can be in favour of monetary union, as I am, but the Maastricht criteria, in particular the two fiscal criteria, can be a nonsense. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved so far. This is essentially a task of the Foreign Minister rather than yours, Mr Minister, but if this goes on, it will end with the fact that we do not receive monetary union or have a budget consolidation. We will not get anything, not even the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria, because if all European countries, all EU countries, make this programme, which makes Austria – an ambitious programme, because the Monetary Fund is already right – this can only bring about, speed up, strengthen, and it will be all the more difficult to achieve this infamous 3 percent in 1998. But I say again, ceterum censeo: I personally – and I can well justify this, only I will not do it here and now – am immediately for monetary union – "at once" under quotation, as there are certain technical transitional problems – but against the two fiscal Maastricht criteria. These make no sense economically, they are harmful and drive Europe into a recession that would not have been necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4646	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Climate. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4668	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I originally wanted to let you talk undisturbed today because you had to listen patiently and attentively to me yesterday. But perhaps some clarifications, ladies and gentlemen. On the question of unemployment rate and economic growth forecasts. They all know the phenomenon of self-fulfilling prophecy. I think that negative forecasts are not there to put their hands in the lap, to regret them, to regret them, to quote them, but to do everything in order not to let these forecasts occur. It is our task – I would say, our common task – to counter this mood, which today exists with basically good fundamental economic data in Europe – not only in Austria, in Europe – through concrete offensive actions. That is exactly what the Federal Government has in mind: on the one hand, the consolidation programme and the offensive programme as the second rail of this programme. I think it can and must be our job in Europe to combat this mood throughout Europe and to bring the problem of unemployment into the European Union. This also includes an employment offensive, including new smart financing models. This is a point where we must all meet together, namely to see how connected politics is today. If a new road cost directive fails to raise the cost of road transport, it will also not be possible to increase the cost of use for railways, which would further mean that we do not find any private-sector financing models for the so necessary trans-European development of rail networks. – You see by this example how connected things are. We should therefore make every effort to bring to life what the Federal Government has presented here – on the one hand, the consolidation programme and, on the other, the offensive programme. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A second clarification: Ladies and gentlemen! It is here again and again spoken of by different relationships such as two thirds, one third, one third, one: 1 and whatever was expected. It was always clear – these are not pocket-player tricks – that the 100-billion-shilling consolidation volume for the federal budget has been forecast in 1995 compared to 1997. And it was always clear that we have two thirds of the expenditure on the Federal budget and one third on the revenue side of the Federal budget. Of course, it is important that all public debt – of course! – will also be reduced by countries and municipalities through savings measures and additional funds made available in the context of the financial compensation. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Now at once?]] Why? – Because the countries and municipalities have already committed themselves, for example, to applying the package of measures relating to the public service to their staff. A third point: We are constantly talking about a lack of structural reforms. I am convinced – and this is evidenced – that a very dynamic and positive saving effect will be achieved, for example, against early retirement, the measures to bring about the actual retirement age at the statutory borders, but in the first years they will only have relatively little savings. This also applies to measures against abuse, but also to measures in the tax field. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that all the measures we have taken with regard to the income tax and corporate tax - measures that we have taken to eliminate tax loopholes - will in fact only take place in 1998 and in the following years. That means that what we are doing in 1996/97 is not to allow increases in the U.S.A. plus the loss premium for 1996/97 to be made only a short-term liquidity bridge; the sustainable effectiveness of these measures will only be shown in the future. What is it if, after more than 100 years, postal agents are now presented a post-structural law, which for the first time makes the post an independent, market-oriented company, a stock company? Is that not a structural change? What is it, for example, if a new, intelligent model is presented for rail infrastructure financing? Is that not a structural change? What is the new Toll Act, which makes it clear that the Vignette is only a transitional solution, that it is the political objective of the Government parties to introduce a fair, distance-dependent road cost system for trucks as soon as possible in 1998 and after the year 2000 as it is in Italy, as it is in France, and all these things more? – A very essential structural reform! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It's even more like tourism!]] Mrs Petrovic! They meant that this consolidation programme was culturally hostile. You yourself have quoted the statistical documents for my budget speech. You will be able to see that the art and culture budget has not been reduced, that the 1995 situation has even been exceeded. I don't know. Do we have different documents? They also complain of the decline in property tax to 0.37 percentage points. Right! But in this context you also need to see the capital income tax, which has been introduced as a compensation for it. The income from the asset tax has, of course, dropped from 8 billion to almost zero Schilling, but that of the capital income tax has increased from 7 to 24 billion Schilling. It's not just in this section inside, but on the next page. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs Petrovic knows that!]] I would therefore ask for an objective discussion. If you address the wage tax, ladies and gentlemen Petrovic, then you have to take into account – and you have to know that if you draw this comparison – that, since the employee's charge, the repayments for the annual compensation are no longer deducted from the wage tax, but rather from the income tax. That is to say, it reduces a refund from the wage tax calculated on the basis of the income tax charged. – These are all – I admit – very difficult technical measures, and perhaps the next time one should explain these points. But it is the first time I have put forward a budget. They say that the budget is anti-education. – 100 billion schillings are included in this budget for education, from folk school to college. Nothing is taken back, the amount is even slightly growing. I therefore believe that, despite the savings, we are maintaining the high standard of quality of education. Ladies and gentlemen! They have complained about labour market policy. In this respect, there is an increase of 56 billion to 60 billion schilling, although, I say quite consciously, the EU's return to employment policy measures, which will amount to about 1 billion schilling in 1996 and about 1.6 billion schilling in 1997, will only include 1 000 s as a brand post, because we have already received 0.5 billion in 1995 but are not used much for 1996 and 1997 due to programme dependence. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about the disabled?]] Mr. Dr. Haider! With your models for an economic programme that you presented today, we have already discussed a television discussion, and I believe they have not been better since then. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The government is you, not us!]] I would like to make one more comment. Mr. Dr. Haider! I have so far, because it is my private concern not to contradict the comments of the students during my period of study. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I just noticed that by the way! Don't be so sensitive!]] Why don't you let her? But if this is done by a Member of Parliament here in this House, I can expect him to be convinced, for example, that the study of the business and economic information I completed in 1981 was only introduced in 1976, i.e. five years before. Dear Dr. Haider! I don't blame the students. I didn't even dementate it because I can't dementate everything and don't want it either; that's my private area. But if you repeat this here in the House, I have to tell you: Don't be angry with me, but a little more quality would have been gratifying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I read it!]] I would like once again to ask the Liberal Forum Members to understand that it was necessary and decisive to respond quickly and decisively, that it was therefore necessary to create two budgets in a few weeks' time, to create 100 budget-accompanied laws and also to include the relevant structural laws. I would ask you to understand that it is also very necessary for us to discuss this quickly and decisively in parliamentary treatment and to adopt it at the end of April. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I think you should take an example of the Austrian population. 61 percent of the Austrian population consider this consolidation programme to be correct. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Other surveys say 58 percent do not! IMAS says that!]] The Austrian population is smart and wise. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4820	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4842	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not in itself my way of making any comments on the speeches of my previous speakers. However, I would like to remind you of my statements a year ago, which Mr Haider has actually made in his words today. When it came to the extraction of profit transfers – international corporations like to operate it violently and very intensively in Austria too – a year ago I was actually bred here by my liberal speaker Dr. Schreiner – the physical Karl Marx had spoken there and more. I wonder, however, whether the FPÖ, after Dr. Schreiner is no longer there, now falls into an uncontrolled Marxism phase, since Dr. Haider has made such a proposal today. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are a very good observer!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That means you are talking about the shift in profits abroad? Is that what you want?]] No, no, no, I just recalled, Mr Böhacker, that your colleague, your spokesperson, called me "Marxist" during the last legislative period, as a "body Karl Marx" because I proposed the year before. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's not a blasphemy with you! Not with us either!]] I don't have a problem with that. I just think that you should have a problem with this, but I'll get done with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point. Mr Haider has today accused the President of the ÖGB of calling for more flexible working hours and time-consuming. I would like to mention briefly the headlines of the last few days on this subject, which have come from Vergestn via APA. "Constantly calls for negotiations over 35 hours a week. – stupidly on it: It would be dangerous for businesses and savings courses". Further – that's apparently the APA message about which it went –: "to resistance:" – not: Versatile, but: on resistance – "flexibility, not reduction of working time". Mr Haider has apparently read that this was an issue of the Industrial Union. Furthermore, the ÖGB makes clear in its opinions that these statements have not been made in the form of either the ÖGB or the Vergestnich. But now on the subject of budget. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Federal Minister for Finance held a number of goals in this area, with these measures, economic location and high employment in Austria, to ensure Austria's creditworthiness on international capital markets, to maintain the favourable interest rate, to keep the hard shilling, to increase the budgetary margin for future budgets, and ultimately to ensure social peace, stability and the credibility of policy as a whole. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these objectives can be achieved by means of the present drafts, and in this opinion I am also encouraged by an author of the "financial news". I allow myself to quote here very briefly the beginning of this essay, the title "Expensive false alarm?" (b) The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. That's where Mr. Christoph Hartmann writes: "Without doubt: The political decision to start fiscal consolidation is correct. It is, in particular, correct, because there is no reason for public expenditure (...) to be proportionate in terms of economic performance: With increasing welfare levels of society as a whole, instead of the increasing performance (also) of the State, its lower need for performance should be the focus of the considerations. On the other hand, it would be wrong to justify asymmetric budgetary consolidation – two thirds over the expenditure side, one third over the revenue side – with the necessary limitation of ‘exploding’ state expenditure: this ‘explosion’ took place only in political opinions and in media comments, but not in Austrian reality; and also the expenditure development promoted by the ‘cash crash’ or the ‘open-up balance’ until 1999 can hardly be described as an explosion." – This at a time when the calculations were still inconsolidated. I can tell you that the expenditure ratio and, of course, the revenue ratio have fallen in the 1990s. In 1986, this expenditure rate was 35 percent, currently 32.8% – unconsolidated – and in 1999 it will be 32.5%. In other words: The author states in this article that in the next few years budgetary policy will lead to the fact that, in addition to achieving the main convergence points, the reduction in re-indebtedness and the reduction in expenditure will be more advanced than is expected here. The author even assumes that a so-called rehabilitation reserve will be created and that this rehabilitation reserve could even increase through higher privatisation revenues or better economic policy data. The budgetary margin will thus be increased by structural adjustment laws and these measures in the budgets 1996, 1997. Basic social-democratic positions have been incorporated and this savings package has essentially been socially met. Whoever deserves more, he should be more involved. In the end, taking these social democratic demands into account has also led to a very high acceptance of this savings package and that the people of Austria are also involved in the package. I believe that Mr Trattner's statement, which, of course, has to be more strongly formulated as an opposition politician here and which has been called a "swivel budget", does not apply. [[Abg. Böhacker: Is it too!]] It is rather that it is a budget prepared with caution – he has also said it once, yes! – that various uncertainties in budget planning were taken very seriously into account and handled very carefully. [[Abg. Aumayr: That's what the bowl said! Is that right?]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I believe that the – problematic – forecasts of our economic researchers, that of budget creation – and also of the budget failure! – have always had a significant influence, in this case very careful use was made, because the experience in 1993 was very bitter because of a wrong forecasting. One can see from these budgets that another way is going. It is, I believe, also taken into account the uncertainty of economic development in Germany in the export accounts. We know that Germany is the largest and most important export market for us and there are currently problems there. There has also been a careful estimate of the proceeds of privatization, which hope that there will be better and higher yields. Other structural measures, which are still being taken and agreed in this way, have not yet been taken into account in the budget and also give additional assurance that the objectives can be achieved or even exceeded. I am thinking, for example, of the hospital reform – KRAZAF –, of the civil servants' pension reform and other such points that have a huge structural impact. I therefore believe that these uncertainties have been formulated very carefully. Structural measures are still possible outside these budget activities and will also be implemented. This means that positive effects will occur. It should also be noted that the planned privatisation revenue does not only contribute to budget adjustment as a one-time effect, but also that parts of it are used for the location and technology activities which are necessary, yes, very important for this Republic, which are addressed by colleagues Van der Bellen. This results in privatisations not only a one-time effect, but also a structural effect. I am therefore convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this coalition government has presented over the next four years a very homogeneous and very round package of budgets, the Structural Adjustment Act and the Financial Balance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4949	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Please, honourable Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4971	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was almost significant today when Mr Hazelsteiner tried to drag his documentation package here, he said that he had carefully studied this large package but was no longer able to take the package with him during the decline. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] So this package, which contains structural reforms and two budgets, is too difficult, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I quite agree with an opposition speaker that he points, brightly and critically lights all things, that he is not at all sensitive in the selection of the language, but one thing I have found: how sensitive one reacts when the same language is repaid with the same facts – then pain is in place, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundesminister Klima presented us yesterday with two federal budgets, the financial compensation, hundreds of budget-accompanied laws and some important structural laws. The need for joint work in the cooperation of the federal, state and local authorities and a consolidation programme, which is courageous and socially balanced, was discussed. I quite understand that the opposition calls for the target group problems to be identified, for instance, to be pitted. It is the right of opposition that it shows where possible weaknesses, where there are any problems. Why not? But it would also be the duty of the opposition to present better proposals. They missed me to this day! – Mr. Wachtegern-Pensionist Moser! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: You must listen when the opposition speaks! We have always made proposals!]] I'm asking for a little restraint. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Early pensioner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With all the sharpness of the look through the opposition glasses, you should not look so black that you lose the overall overview. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us is allowed to critically question the problem groups, not to believe everything that is spoken, which I have not done. [[Call to the liberals: That's right!]] I believe less opposition, and I do not believe all that is said by the Ministries. But, ladies and gentlemen, I want to quote someone objective, namely the editor of the "financial news". In this statement you can read: The political decision to start fiscal consolidation is correct. It is also correct, in particular, because there is no reason why public expenditure is increasing proportionally, let alone disproportionately. Considering larger periods of time, the level of government expenditure in the 1990s is more than that of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, whereas it is precisely one percentage point below that of the 1980s. Therefore, it cannot be spoken of in a serious way against the background of these data – which is literally to be read here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Who says that?]] – Professor Horst Knapp, editor of the financial news, better said, his successors. This, of course, hurts you very much, Mr Trattner, because in the 1980s some of you were involved in the government. Since 1975, interest payments in the budget have grown more and more, which is not disputed. But interest payments are, pointedly, a reminder of past deficits, which cannot be seen in any context with current expenditure developments. Interesting is: Even without budget adjustment, 28.8 percent of the second lowest value of the period between 1975 and 1999 would be achieved. This figure is only 2 percentage points above the average of the years 1950 to 1974. So, Mr Trattner, you can pack your stupid weapons that you put on the table today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You are a fairy taler!]] Not I say this, you can read it in the "financial news" you always quote and try to present as a serious basis. But once something stands in it that contradicts your opposition strategy, it is critically questioned. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just quoting something. If the Coalition Government achieves its budget objective or, more importantly, the expenditure target, then not only has a stabilisation of expenditure development but a roll back of public expenditure happened. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Is that a budget game?]] Mr Trattner! The "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" today quotes Bernhard Felder, who is not unknown to you, because you also quote him: There is a decline in growth, but no recession. Some suggest that Austria is better prepared against the downturn. Austria's companies had been relieved in 1994 by state taxes. It is cited the abolition of property tax. The corporate tax rate in Austria is significantly lower than in Germany at 34 percent. In Austria, corporate taxes are a total of 20 percent lower than in Germany. – So you should be a little careful, Mr Trattner. This ambitious budget programme in the coming years will also enable new jobs to be created. Upper Austria is investing in teleworking places – because the joint work of the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities was addressed here. By 2001 in Upper Austria, 5 percent of Upper Austria's working teleworkers are expected to work at home, at least a few days a week. This would result in a reduction of 25 000 counterparts and a reduction of 100 million kilometers. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What do you say about the increase in the tax rate from 41.1 to 43.4 percent?]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, an investment in the future that can be seen very positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, in particular, always call for positive investments in the future. They call for structural reforms for the future. If they are intended, they should also support them, Mr Trattner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is necessary to initiate a structural reform of the financial balance, as mentioned by Mr Van der Bellen, because a pure continuation – similar to that of the Hospital Cooperation Fund – is in the long run unbearable. That's undisputed. In this respect, things have to be set in motion. Finally, I would like to say two more problems in my area: I do not understand that the Federal Minister for the Interior, whose chapters of course we decide and deal with in these days, is simply moving the district army post, because this is what a mayor of his color wants. He takes him away from one who is also put by this party – although millions have been invested – only to meet another. That has little to do with saving. The second is: I do not understand, Minister of the State One, that in Lambbach at the power plant building site, it is not finally and once again ensured that various events can be carried out in such a way that the rule of law can remain the rule of law, and that, as has been done so far, the eyes are constantly shut to the real problems. It won't be like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Why are you talking about the rule of law?]] I hope that the executive will not be further impeded in its work, that the rule of law will remain the rule of law, that the illegal blockade and the demonstrations will be terminated, so that legal decisions in this area can be implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, Mr. Federal Minister for Climate Change has presented an ambitious programme to the new government, and we are very happy to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5160	Mr Böhacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5181	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Have you read the "financial news", Mr. Col.?]] In his speech Mr Stummvoll said that this double budget with the accompanying laws was intended to solve the problems of the future. – Mr President, I do not share this opinion. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. This double budget with the accompanying laws is nothing but the failed attempt to cover up ten years of red and black mismanagement. – No more and no less. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Auer! I have always appreciated Professor Knapp, as long as he was still among the living. He was a blinding statistician. But, Mr Auer: Never quote a statistics that you didn't fake yourself! - That's what's going on. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You always fake your statistics? Now we know!]] I will now quote numbers from the Ministry of Finance. Mr Auer, because you meant that the tax rate in Austria was particularly low: It is undisputed that the operating taxes in Austria are very moderate. But one thing you need to see – colleague Auer, listen to me, you could learn something –: The total tax and tax rate rose from 1995 to 1997 from 41.1 percent to 43.4 percent. We are therefore substantially above the tax and tax rate of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Auer: Is that a fake statistics?]] I've taken this from the finance minister's records. Mr Finanzminister! Are these numbers real? One more thing, Mr Auer, about public debt. According to information and report from the Ministry of Finance, government debt increases to 72.8 percent of GDP by 1997. This is 20 percent above the Maastricht criterion. – That's all right, it's all right. This is how politics is made in this government. All the representatives of the government parties and also the Minister of State spoke of a so-called special situation. That's very much suppressed, Minister of State. It is a dramatic budgetary situation. They wanted to make it clear to us today that this "special situation" – under quotation marks – is perhaps even God's will or was indebted by the opposition or even the citizen is guilty of it because he has consumed in recent years those social achievements that this government has presented to him. The red-black government partners, the so-called rehabilitation partners, managed to increase government debt by 700 billion schilling in ten years, those rehabilitating partners who have begun to rehabilitate the budget. And in each budget speech, it was pointed out that the reorganisation of the budget has absolute priority. Ladies and gentlemen! You will therefore have to understand that we have legitimate doubts about your figures and your previews. The editor-in-chief of the "Salzburger Nachrichten" and economic journalist Ronald Barazon has put it to the fore today when he writes – I quote –: Viktor Klima is notable. No finance minister before him has promised similar miracles in a budget speech. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I am used to keeping my promises!]] Mr President, I should like to thank You probably follow the saying: Impossible things are done immediately, miracles take a little longer. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: That's it!]] We will therefore have to wait a very long time for the budget to be renovated. Barazone continues: Perhaps Viktor Klima did so on Wednesday in Parliament, because he not only gave his budget speech, but in fact also that of his political twin Johannes Ditz. And two sanifiers have to promise each time more than just one. Federal Minister! They also said yesterday that there would be 96 billion schilling deficits in 1996 only – under quotation marks. As you come to speak of "only" here, you still have to explain this to this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 96 000 million schilling deficit – that is what you mean by "only". Your predecessor, Minister Lacina, has also always dreamed of a budget deficit of between 60 and 70 billion schilling. – He never reached it. You will therefore see: You too, Minister of State, will fail! The time has passed as in flights, there is still a lot to say about it. I can assure you, Minister of Finance, that I have pursued intensively the development of structural adjustment laws, in so far as they concern the tax area, from the outset, the papers have studied and led me to the essential opinions of all experts. And when you sum up all these things, you conclude with this load package: This tax and tax package presented by the Government is anti-economic and non-local and therefore workplace destructive. It is a violation of the principle of trust and faith, and thus a test of tear for the tax system, is partly unconstitutional to unconstitutional, is a prelude to future budgets and thus a burden of future generations, is socially not balanced, is family, disabled and female hostile and creates new bureaucracy. I can conclude with a quote from a Salzburg university professor, the thinker of the Social Democrats in Salzburg, and Dr. Klaus Firlei, who described this load package as a unique age flop.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5286	I call Mr Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5308	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have done my utmost to make a few comments on the social tolerance of this budget here in the debate. I can refer to the remarks made by my colleague, Mr Haselsteiner, in which this has already been pointed out: We believe that this structural improvement law, as it is called, is the basis for the two federal proposals on which it is based today, is not really socially acceptable, because the uniformity of the problem, as Mr Hazelsteiner did, is not an indicator of social tolerance, but is just a PR effect. It can no longer be said that there are groups of people who are not at all affected by the savings package. But nothing has been said about the uniformity of concern, the balance of concern and the effects of the package. This is not a miracle either, because what is present here now is what we need to "cross-read", but we have not yet been able to look at its real effects, it is actually a camouflage and deception, to do the attempt of both government parties, as if the promises and promises formulated in the election campaign were actually observed. This means that an element of dishonesty has penetrated into the entire construction, which at the same time results in the papers being so inconspicuous. For if I cannot do what is to be done clearly and precisely on the point, but must act as if I were doing something else, then a game of confusion comes out, then one must look in hundreds of pages. It is no wonder, then, that experts who have been involved in these papers admit on their own that they are not yet able to tell about the effects. I fear there are more domino effects in this package than we can say today; Domino effects, for example, manifested by the fact that there are many links across social laws, so that, when a building block is removed, all of a sudden, increase multipliers need to be missing and improved. However, it will only be improved later, at a time when the social damage has already occurred. The Under the pre-text, it is a package that must under no circumstances be tied up, which, as it were, is borne on point and addition by the committees, but will in no way be modified – neither debated nor really treated in parliamentary terms. A reasonable opposition politician must, of course, expect the government parties to make use of their majority. But the fact that this cynicism is already announced in advance that, in all circumstances and in spite of whatever the proposal for improvement comes, the majority will be used. One feels here in so far parliamentaryly ridiculed and abused when the impression is produced: If it were possible, this would not have been borne by Parliament at all, but would have been left where it was invented, namely at the expert staff of the social partners. It is therefore – and this is an important qualification for me – an insider paper; a paper that can at best still understand insiders in some way. I would have liked the following and would still like it to be: that it would have been admitted or will be that it is clearly an emergency program – and one would have to discuss the premise in the sense of Van der Bellen – that is to say, the driving of waste water wherever one finds it, so that one can remove the supposedly burning roof chair. We would have understood this and praised honesty. We believe it would be much better to consider: How do we get a new social contract? How do we – in my picture – come to a fireproof construction? – So that we don’t have to try from year to year to find again a bubbling water somewhere. This time, for example, it is 4.9 billion schilling from the AMS sector, the labour market service we transfer to the pensions, to claim that we are less in favour of pensions. In reality, we are withdrawing these funds from an active labour market policy. It is only because these funds are transported by detour via the AMS that they try to raise the impression that the federal government is paying less of the pension grant by 4.9 billion schilling. A typical case of camouflage and culprits. It would be a real change of system. I understand that this is not to be done in a few days or in a few weeks and that one was glad to have found a consistent package between the two government parties, on which one has done a wreath, but it should have been possible to say the following: We're going through this until the end of April, and on 1 April. May we sit down and talk about how we really should continue, what reforms we really are doing! – We would have understood that we first erased and then talked about the new architecture. But now to be removed and at the same time to say that the fire ruins which are created which are needed to be re-covered are a new architecture is a mockery of Parliament, a mockery of the public, a ridicule of voters – they will see this at the latest when some of the measures, which are clearly unsocial, begin to take place. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The academic middle construction may have overrun it more quickly, the students have noticed it faster – they may also have had a little more time to look at it; a small cynical introduction, but they do not have that wrong. For if a system change were discussed, it would not be considered whether the family allowance for students, according to the principle of foundry, would be reduced by 100 or 300 s for all, but would be extended by three years, but would have gone back to the start and asked: What's the problem? The situation is as follows: There are people who want to study and secure their livelihoods, they may have caregivers who cannot afford them, or no one who supports them at all, we want to allow them to study, so we finance it by means of a training financing model, which, of course, is bound to success criteria, instead of trying to operate with any abstract deadline or cancellations. The maintenance obligation remains – with or without family support; it is only deprived of all evenly. I mean, if one makes itself aware that the problem of co-insurance depends on one now trying to maintain co-insurance by a reference to a law in force in 1992 so that such bocks are made loud, then it is clear that this is a water-removal action and not a new architecture. If one cannot agree on a new social architecture – for example, one that requires minimal protection of living, regardless of what is still included in insurance – one not only threatens social peace, but also, in the medium term, perhaps even in the short term, our basic democratic policy consensus; and that becomes politically dangerous. There are not only some who need to bite stronger in the acid apple, but perhaps more people on the street than the 30,000 or 40 000 students. If you can estimate the seeing eye, you should do something about it. I must expressly contradict the Minister of State in an aspect of the forecasts. Of course, we all know that the forecasts which are underlying here and which also do not necessarily influence estimates of revenue and expenditure are on quite thin legs. However, I do not want to experience what I have experienced for 20 years in the energy industry: that some prognosis is invented and that they also agree that, for example, power plant construction is being driven forward on the basis of such forecasts and that it is then surprising that we have overcapacity and the highest electricity prices in Europe. In the area of the federal budget, we cannot afford such a thing. I hope that it will be on 1 January. ==References====External links== May we will have a pseudo-theatre of sham parliamentarianism, and I am very sorry, because that is not the access of liberals to parliamentarianism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5389	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5410	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you spoke yesterday in your budget speech about the fact that in times of consolidation our imagination is more than ever required. I must admit to you: You have tried your imagination in trying to cover this budget with some sort of effort. You have invested a lot of your brain's malt, so that you actually make a great effort not only to the Austrians, but to meet the Maastricht criteria, especially the EU authorities and representatives, to make serious and very serious efforts to meet the convergence criteria. If we look at this more closely, it is obvious that there has been work without regard to losses, that in 1996 and 1997 positions, revenue will be created with regard to the Maastricht convergence criteria, which will be converted into federal expenditure after the end of 1996 and 1997. It was tried to simulate the fulfilment of the convergence criteria by the end of 1997, without regard to the burden we will experience in Austria not only in 1996 and 1997, but especially in the following years. I would like to give you some examples of how your side has tried to perform this simulation. Supporting the exemption decisions – point 1 in the framework of fiscal measures –, post-tax provisions, suspension of loss depreciation, increase in advance payments in income tax and corporate tax, increase in the minimum rate of corporate tax – all these are measures that will become effective on the one hand only in 1996 and 1997 and will become effective on the other hand for the Federal Government in the following years, i.e. an additional deficit. In the area of social policy, too, there are individual positions in which one can understand this very clearly and unfortunately only too clearly and associated with bitter consequences: Non-adjustment of the ASVG-pensions in 1996 and 1997, withdrawal of funds from the AMS – 4.9 billion annually; this has already been mentioned – for 1996 and 1997, withdrawal from the General Insurance Institute – per year of 0.8 billion; in an area where it would be more urgent than ever to put in place structural measures, namely in the preventive field; this is precisely the case with AUVA. I would also like to say that the repurchasing of study periods is a short-term action which will help to raise money quickly in 1996 and 1997, but which will not lead to more revenue, but at most to expenditure. I think that the framework of these measures – you might mention a few others – clearly shows what you are talking about. But we cannot do so here – you tried to present it yesterday – as if we did not make this consolidation programme because of abstract Maastricht criteria. It is indeed true that at least this concrete form of consolidation makes sense only if it is referred to the Maastricht criteria and their supposed fulfillment. I think this is a wrong approach. It prevents structural reforms in very essential areas from being implemented; it prevents measures which will have a dampening effect over the following years, such as in the field of health promotion, health policy in general, but also in the field of pension policy. It is a pleasure that, although the last Coalition Convention repeatedly referred to the harmonisation of pension systems, before the 1995 elections, it was said by all parties: We want the harmonisation of pension systems!, in the coalition agreement exactly the point "harmonization of pension systems", which was always part of your coalition agreements, is no longer included. This point is completely missing. But that was the only election promise you and all the opposition parties have made. So you would have had the approval to do so. On this point you could have hoped that not only the coalition partner, but also the opposition parties would be involved in a reasonable approach. In this area, however, there are no approaches. There are no more – eliminated! Minister! I have to say: These are the mortgages to the future that you are going into with this budget. I would like to return to the labour market policy, because, and this has already been mentioned by our club chairmen, it is particularly clear that the assumptions you assume regarding the development of unemployment and which form the basis of budgeting are in no way voting. Minister! They are mainly – we know – expected to be 6.8% unemployment in 1996 and 7.2% in 1997. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: 7.2 in 1997!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Yes!]] These are data that are not sustainable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! You know as I do that the measures you yourself are taking with this consolidation package produce additional unemployment; I hope I do not need to tell you in detail, but I can. The measures put in place in the school sector will mean that the two L contracts, i.e. the temporary ones, will no longer be renewed. In the field of university employment, there will be similar effects in medium-sized enterprises. Furthermore, we still have the reduction in the payment period of the leave allowance. A further 15 000 to 20 000 women per year will be forced into the labour market. Where are you going, Minister? Where are these women to find employment if they are not already employed on the labour market? . They generate additional unemployment due to this measure, not only because of the lack of childcare facilities, but also because they simply have to report back to the labour market as a result of shorter leave periods. This means that the potential of unemployment will be increased. This is a measure which is totally counterproductive and which you have not yet taken into account in the unemployment figures. There are, of course, already calculations by the economic research institutes, and these say that the unemployment figures projected for 1996 will not in any way hold 6.8%. Of course, the economic researchers and you, Mr Minister, know – let us be honest! – that the unemployment rate is already above that this year, only: The amended forecasts will only be published after our budget consultations have ended, I suppose. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] ==References== March – okay! We can assume that there will be higher numbers – you will agree. I think that these figures will increase even further over the course of this year, when the effects of this consolidation package begin to rise. The labour market will not endure this, but especially the people who are unemployed will not endure it! What do you have to offer recipes? - Little! Only a few measures in the construction sector – be it around. My previous speaker Van der Bellen has already explained what these short-term measures should mean. There is a real lack of structural measures. Even if I hear that telework creates unexpected possibilities, because then it is no longer possible to produce them in Vienna, but can be worked in Gramatneususidl on the home PC, I am already getting up the Krauss. What can this kind of shift from work? – Shifting work, but not only from Vienna to Gramatneusidl, but, much more realistic, across borders. Of course, it is one of the effects that one hopes to produce cheaper. That is to say, the effects you hope to have on the accelerated use of telecommunications, information and communication technologies will not exist. It will not be the case that this will lead to a considerable potential for additional jobs. On the contrary. All we already know about the effects of this specific form of new technologies is rather in the other direction: The potential for rationalisation will increase, the potential for job relocation will increase, and the potential for job savings will be significantly increased. I think you have received very few specifics in terms of employment policy, with the exception of some general promises. I tried in my last speech to make this very clear. The area where you still have some hope is the active labour market policy that you are constantly leading. Active labour market policy – the billions will be exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, as I do, that Austria is one of the European finalists in terms of active labour market policies. We spend 5 billion schilling – 0.39 percent of the gross domestic product. We are thus at the end of Europe; together with Portugal and Greece, we are in favour of active labour market policies at the lower end of Europe – and this in view of rising numbers of unemployment. And what particularly obscene measure do you still consider in the field of active labour market policy? – The compulsory work for long-term unemployed; a measure which you have, as it were, written off from the FPÖ concept, which will not create additional employees. The only question is that long-term unemployed, because they like to be called on to do so at regular tables, are being driven back to work; to a job that is not permanent, which does not have a perspective that costs the field of active labour market policy a lot of resources that will prevent people from qualifying for other jobs that will prevent people from getting back to the first labour market and which has no structural perspective. I think this is a completely counterproductive measure, which is a socially obscene measure, which is really the 1 : 1-Acceptance of a concept that probably didn't even think exactly of the liberals in his consequence, but which reminds us of bad times – that is also said here, ladies and gentlemen of the Free! [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In case you haven't gotten that right now: That is more or less the connection to concepts as we know them from the time of the Third Reich. That you take over without reflecting it is your thing. Now you know, and you should know better in the future. The fact that Social Democracy and the Austrian People's Party take over the concept of Freedom 1 : 1 and make it their own, is then already the Chuzpe, which can no longer be surpassed, ladies and gentlemen! That's obscene, that's social-political obscenity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] It is essential to point out, in this context, that everything you, ladies and gentlemen, have to offer from the government parties in the field of social policy measures, and what the Minister has expressly stated in his budget speech, is nothing but anti-abuse legislation. They decide on one law after another, on the other, on the other, on the renewal of each other, which serves only the purpose of preventing social abuse. This is your way of making social policy! So you want to secure social policy in this country and the social state. This will not be the case; it is counterproductive in social policy, it is also counterproductive in administrative terms. I just remember – President Neisser, who was yesterday to be his 60. It is not here that it will not be enough, Mr President Neisser, that you and Mrs Frieser are constantly criticizing the fact that every year this Parliament produces countless new laws if you do nothing but increase the pace in which these laws are produced. I remind you: There are not only 52 ASVG novels, but in the area of the ASVG a total of 110 revisions since 1955. 110 innovations! Do you know what the quality of these laws is? Do you know how to pass a similar law in Switzerland, for example, as regards the provision of pensions and survivors? – Since 1935 there has been the AHV in Switzerland. There are a total of ten innovations by 1995, while in the area of the ASVG since 1955 we have found 110 revisions, of which only 52 have received a number. In the area of unemployment legislation, we currently have between three and four innovations annually; and this has been happening for years. This, of course, not only makes these laws unreadable, but also incomprehensible. They only create more bureaucracy, more administrative burden, more control, and then sell it under the word "social abuse prevention legislation". That's how you secure the social state, my Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties? – You don't believe that! You cannot seriously believe that you are putting in place measures to prevent actual social abuse in that country. Let me give you an example: What you have decided on in respect of the contract of work promotes social abuse. Mr Vergestnitsch, you know exactly what is connected with it. It created a new category of workers, obviously without any debate, without the involvement of the trade union public or the general public: Workers second order, these are the contractors. They're coming cheaper, not a question. But that's the perspective you wanted you to have, I dare to doubt it. [[Abg. That's exactly why we did that!]] – No, that is the wrong direction to be followed by this law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. That's necessary!]] Of course it would be necessary. I believe that it is necessary to introduce measures in respect of contracts of work designed to limit the abuse which can be done with it. [[Abg. Leikam: That's exactly what happened!]] Only: If you want to improve something, you can not only have the debate on it over a month or a half of a month, but also have to keep it public for a year or two. The opinions, the legitimate objections of the various associations and organizations must be heard and the debate should be held in public. [[Abg. Controversy: How long has the debate on the works contracts been under way?]] - No! There was no public debate on this. If there had not been some attempts from the back of the works contracts, for example in the area - I say this quite specifically - of labour market policy promotions to take measures to prevent, for example, the workers of the BFI from being subject to this tax, then the budget for labour market policy would have exploded. Then it would have to be budgeted by 30, 40 or 50 percent higher. Therefore, with a construction from the back, it is tried to remove these and other groups from what has just been decided as a general regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is. It is not possible to suffocate a discussion and a social policy effort in the approach. This is the wrong perspective, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! The attempt to install social abuse legislation – and this is obviously the common will of the government parties – is wrong from the outset. They should go here and discuss in the public how certain regulations in social policy, in the social state, can be reformed. It could have been discussed. With regard to leave, it would have been necessary to discuss whether leave in its existing form is a re-entry model or an exit model. What are you doing? – They make it an absolute exit model, especially for single parents. This cannot be the perspective that people expect when you say you want to achieve structural reforms in this area. That's wrong, it's counterproductive! It is your right, of course, with your two-thirds majority, to go beyond it in all areas – including social policy issues – and to take measures that are actually counterproductive for the social state. Of course you have this opportunity now. They must not wonder, however, where this will lead in the next few years; Example of compulsory work. You will see the direction you have taken, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] These are the consequences that you will have to bear in the next few years, which, Mr Vergestnitsch, too, the ÖGB will be responsible for if he leaves the workers and the unemployed in fact and commits them to forced work concepts. [[Abg. Verbatim: Who is talking about forced labour?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5586	Mr Leikam has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5607	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, a few comments on your comments: You would be right in your concern for jobs in our country if it were the way you described it in connection with this entire consolidation package. However, you have left out a very important point in your presentation – consciously or unconsciously – that the main objective is the efforts of the Federal Government to launch an employment plan in this country with all the concrete measures contained in this savings package. One has to make the effort and read the whole package, not just a part that seems important to one of the political arguments. There is no realistic alternative to this package. Of course, many people can discuss whether or not it would have been better. The fact is that it was time to act and that the Federal Government also acted with the involvement of the social partners. Since you are here with regard to the revisions of social legislation In comparison with other countries, I can tell you the following: Even in the past it was, but also in the present and future, it will be so – despite or perhaps because of this savings package – that Austria is still one of the most socially important countries in the world. It has no comparison to hide in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to turn to another issue which I would like to put on the budget at this first reading: our country's security policy. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The fundamental right to security as a whole for individual citizens is not only to be obtained through police means. However, the democratic rule of law and thus its security executive make an important contribution to the internal security of our country. The subjective sense of security of the individual citizen is usually only influenced by the facts of objective security in its immediate habitat. Of course, the course is also supported by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The 1996 and 1997 budgets as well as the structural adjustment laws are further progress in the fight against crime in our country and thus also a further contribution to the security of the Austrian population. Some specific points concerning security policy in this consolidation package and in the accompanying legislation [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] It has been clarified in the creation of the border service – a very essential and important measure, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] During the negotiations, some things were unclear, I would like to admit, but now there is clarity as to what the border service, border protection at the Austrian external borders should look like: combined with the executive, with the customs guard. There is also a clear statement that the German army will continue to provide assistance at the EU's external border by the year 2000. This is a very important measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: What about the double-maiden?]] I would also like to say a few words about this: But I could also say a few things about what has more harmed the Carinthian economy: the backslidings of the liberal party keeper, who prevent some from coming to Carinthia, or the just negotiated question of financing by toll. After all, we still have a very considerable amount of gap between the motorway and Carinthia, which could be completed with this money. It is the task of the representation of interest to make a massive effort to do so, that is no question at all! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The Board of Directors of the Kärntner Chamber of Workers Quantannig has said that we should fight against the double-maat!]] Second point in this package – unfortunately I only have ten minutes of speaking time, but we can continue to discuss at home, we do not live so far away from each other –: Improvement of the search methods – a wish which, admittedly, has not been fully approved everywhere. However, we believe that this point is very essential, especially in the fight against organised crime, and it is clearly contained in this Convention on Labour. Migration and tourism reform involving the previous implementation practice: It is very important and essential that what has been said in practice is that one must change or improve it. The National Council will certainly be able to deal with these questions separately. Despite all the savings measures, the budgetary assurance of the performance of the tasks of our executive is as secure as the improvement of equipment and accommodation for our executives. As a Carinthian Member of Parliament, I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has now also given the green light to the Carinthian Security Centre – something we have been demanding for many years but have not yet achieved – and nothing is in the way of the beginning of 1996. This is not only gratifying for the officials serving there, but also for the Carinthian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You said that well!]] A few brief comments on the reform of migration and tourism. Ladies and gentlemen! 50 million people are currently looking for a new home worldwide. In such a situation, to pursue a policy of any open borders, such as that of the Greens in this House, would be irregular and inhuman, both for the citizens of the countries concerned and for the immigrants themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! No other country in Europe has solved the immigration problems in a similar way to Austria! An overall solution has been developed to reform migration and tourism, which protects our country from uncontrolled immigration and, on the other hand, those foreigners who are legal with us – I emphasize: legal! – finding reception, ensuring reasonable living and working conditions. What is to be improved – I have already mentioned this – is the area of implementation practice in which the experience is to be taken into account and the legal adjustment is to be made. The aim of this foreign policy must be – and this is clearly stated in this Convention of Labour – to ensure security for all people living in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Through the accession of Austria to the European Union and the resulting removal of internal border controls within the European Union, Austria must take appropriate measures to monitor and control the external borders of the EU, even if it wants to achieve the Schengen standard, in order to be able to involve crime control accordingly. After difficult negotiations – I have already pointed out – this federal government has succeeded in creating clear conditions in the border service. The uncertainty among the individual guards – with the Gendarmen, with the customs guards, with the Federal Army, which provides assistance on the Burgenland border – has been eliminated by this clear definition and it will be possible to reach Schengen's standard at Austria's external borders by the end of 1999. This will also take an important step towards better settlement at the internal borders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on a subject which I will continue to represent as a Carinthian Member particularly massively and intensively in the future, because I have a different view from that which at least currently prevails in the Ministry of the Interior or in the Ministry of Finance. Mr Federal Minister, we are talking about the planned cessation of the air rescue service. We in Carinthia cannot accept the fact that measures are being taken to stop using rescue to the extent that they can help the population, as is the case at present. Negotiations with the countries will be necessary. It is to be accepted that the current way in which the costs are incurred is not satisfactory, and there will have to be considerations as to how better things can be done, but with the intention of not using flight rescue in the form of how it works wonderfully, no one can befriended in our country, Mr Federal Minister. We will be happy to help you achieve a common solution. I would like to introduce an aspect that has not been discussed so far: In the area of private accident insurance, there are already provisions for the recovery service. Credit card owners know that recovery costs can be taken over. In the case of Alpine associations, the Austrian Schiverband, of course, the recovery of injured persons by helicopters in accident insurance is already included. If one can expand this area, it must also be possible to maintain the rescue as it has existed so far. Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on Europol: Over the last few days, we have been informed by fax that Europol is so important to Europe's security. The problems are, therefore, because the UK is still vetoing. It is only to be hoped that the negotiators will reach an agreement very soon, for the EU, Europe needs Europol to fight crime. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that an appropriate solution is found very soon. Policy and, above all, security policy requires facts and not polemics! This also applies to Europol and to all the security policies in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Our executives often come into contact with social marginal groups – of course, that is one of their most original tasks. In addition, it is also entrusted with the enforcement of the foreign laws, which is not always particularly easy. These responsible tasks often present our executives with very large challenges. Some of these activities also lead to frustration of employees in the security administration. But we must not overlook one thing: Police and Gendarmerie have made very positive contributions to the democratic development of Austria in the Second Republic. Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world thanks to the use of our executives. That's how it's supposed to stay! The fact that we are one of the safest countries in the world has many positive effects on the quality of life of the people in the country. It also contributes to the fact that tourists come to our country in large numbers. In order to comply with this standard, common efforts by citizens, politics and security executives are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, without major day-to-day policy, we should contribute to the implementation, to the maintenance of good security conditions in our country. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5718	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5743	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have often pointed out from this point of view that in Austria we have a very high standard in the field of social, family and women's policies. On the premise that this consolidation package meets our expectations, that is to say that we expect not only the renovation of the state budget, but also new jobs, qualified jobs and the safeguarding of our social network and this high standard, we agree with this coalition budget. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== There have been heated debates on women's policy on March. We did not join the demonstration because it was not clear where the trip was going. [[Abg. Scheibner: Were you also at the Dohnal party?]] First it's called, it's about the single parents. But only a few months separate us from the time when we abolished the differentiation of married and unmarried women with regard to increased carnage money because we knew that this was an instrument of abuse. It would therefore be unwise to create the same situation in another area, although I have to say that, and I am familiar with it, I understand this situation and believe that in the future we must be very helpful and supportive of those women. In recent days, a number of speakers have criticized an increasing conservativeism. The women would be lured back to the stove. – I think it’s the opposite! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary, with the reduction of the working time to 18 months, women are rather driven back into the work process. However, after the first 18 months of life, special emergency aid will be staggering, so that the woman very well retains the opportunity to stay in Karenz. What's particularly important to me is: It also preserves the legal situation. Although the last half year of karenz is not paid, unless the man enters the karenz age, however, the woman has the right to return to work after two years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's clear and you should say it openly – I don't hide anything –: This measure is precisely what is happening to us, because we have been particularly committed to the second year of karenz and our then Minister Flemming has also fought very strongly to get this performance. As with all the measures that were milestones in history – such as the recognition of child rearing times for the pension or, if I take a long step back and think of Grete Rehor as a whole, mother protection at all – we cannot be pleased if they have to be taken back, which affects us painfully. It will therefore also be up to us to take action and intervene where hardships occur. In the field of female students, for example, we have maintained that the study period is extended by two years in case the student receives a child. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We did not succeed – and I would have liked to have done so – in increasing the amount of the award clause for the students, because they would have had the opportunity to earn more than 3,600 p.m. It should be 5 400 S possible. Ladies and gentlemen! But let me say something: Reasonable reasons and, ultimately, the objective of this budget consolidation, of correcting the public budget, of creating new jobs, of creating new jobs, of more qualified jobs, we cannot shut women down. I also believe that we are not doing anything good with it – I have been hearing it for years now – to present women's policy here as such as a minority policy, to give regrets to women as to how terrible it is to be a woman. I would like, despite our different circumstances of life and the fact that there are women living in really poor conditions, to see this problem differently. Mr Schaffenrath mentioned the poverty of old age yesterday. Of course there is a point of departure, but a means of combating this poverty of old was the recognition of the time of retirement. If there are perhaps even more women with a low pension now, then this probably also has the reason that many have received a pension only by taking this into account of the periods of education – even if it is not much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that good employment is the best basis for women's living. We confess, we know, I've said it a few times: Today, marriage is hardly a net or a guarantee for life, but women want more: They want to take their own fate into their own hands. They don't want to be alms recipients by the state. One can see the quality of life of women on the It is not due to transfers – although I acknowledge it – but also not only through constitutional arrangements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means we need an offensive programme for women. If we had been able to get through to some points, I would have marched along, then it would have been worth demonstrating. But I refuse to demonstrate if I do not know what direction it is going in and when the individual points are broken – up to the kindergarten billion. We have never opposed it, Mrs Mertel, but our family ministers could tell us that she was always a phantom. Because on the question: Do I get them now?, it's always called, they don't exist. That we have now received 600 million schillings, we are pleased, and I am entirely of your opinion that we are funding a wide range of forms of childcare. We'll be right there. I read this in an issue of yours, and I am very pleased. The note action we saw yesterday disqualifies itself. Positive thinking has not yet penetrated everywhere. Now we have 600 million, but there are obviously 400 million missing, and there is a new demonstration in this regard in the house. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot to be done for women. There are women in different situations and situations. However, we should not, through generalizations and an eternal lamentation, set our eyes on these things. We're supposed to keep our fingers on it. We are not at all that far apart from the party-wide ideologically when it comes to helping there. The goal is the same – we should find the way. I would like to continue to express my support in this regard. I am surprised that the Minister, who clearly felt attacked and took the flight forward, has joined this demo, while I have noted very positively that some of the ladies of the Socialist Group have been left to the absolute and calm. It wasn't a strike break or something. I don't think it's been very useful either. But we should nevertheless take the issue to heart, hoping that this consolidation package will be a good basis for us to pursue offensive women's policies, to look at where the poverty criteria lie, whether we can fight them, as we put them, and, of course, to those women who are said to have done so nationally. Ms. Dr. Irene Dyk has presented a study on the situation of women sitting in the chief days. Of course, they have to give up a lot for the career, for example on family, because otherwise they could not cope with this pressure. If they want to make a career, they usually have to choose the single-sicksal. However, since every person has a right to family, the framework conditions for all women should be such that the life they desire is also viable, enforceable and feasible for them. That is what we are responsible for, and it is worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5813	Mr Rosenstingl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5835	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höchtl! It was touching how you tried to defend the interests of the workers today. But from hour to hour it is becoming more and more embarrassing for the EIA, because it has now been shown that you are of course not representing any employee interests at all and that you are on a lonely corridor in your group. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You have already been a biter in your argument!]] It is embarrassing if Mrs Steibl now thinks that she has been misunderstood, that is all that has not been done and so on. That's what she meant at 1:17 p.m. [[Abg. Steibl: Were you there?]] No, Mrs. Colleague! I'll tell you if you don't know what the ORF says to your appearance. You think you're gonna get over it well now, but you just shot an own gate. [[Abg. Steibl: That's a naughtiness!]] The ORF means – according to APA notification of 13.36 hrs – in response to your broadcast: "The Head of the Interior Policy in the ORF-Hörfunk Gisela Hopfmüller decided to reject the accusation of ÖVP deputies Ridi Steibl on APA's request in the afternoon. In the radio “Morgenjournal” there was nothing journalistically shortened, but the content of the application that Steibl had distributed in a background discussion Tuesday afternoon. In this context, it should be noted that the application had already been submitted in July 1995 and is now to be re-entry into the National Council during the new legislative period. This request for amendment to the Working Time Act includes the extension of working time to ten hours in the 'Morgenjournal', which is intended to compensate for the additional benefits as a time balance." [[Abg. Dr Höchtl: An application has not been submitted in 1995, and it is not intended to make an application now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is obvious: They are opposed to the workers here in this House and have long been, as have the Social Democrats, because they will be included in this matter, as workers' representatives. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You are deaf, Mr. Rosenstingl!]] But the ÖVP is driving it very wild today. Today it has been shown how difficult it is if the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, who is an employee of the Chamber of Commerce, also holds a mandate from a party here: All representatives of the Chamber of Economics, starting with President Maderthaner on Secretary General Stummvoll, colleagues Puttinger, and so on continue to make their representations here at the entrance. It is really immense, Mr President, that the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce did not, at first, represent entrepreneurs in any way in his speech here in the House. But what I think is even more immense, although no fellow Members of the Liberals have met, is that in a way that was really the last thing I have ever heard in this House, he has qualified entrepreneurs in politics! I strongly reject this, Mr President Maderthaner. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Are you the lawyer of the Haselsteiner?]] As President, you should call your Secretary-General to order! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! Unfortunately, I don't have much time to speak. But I still have to say that you meant that the Federal Finance Act contained structural reforms and that the amendment of the postal structure was such a major reform. Federal Minister! The law, which has now been presented within the framework of the structural adjustment laws, is nothing but a social contract and a regulation of social conditions and service relations at the post office. This is not a structural reform! There is a need to reform something else in a farm if you want to improve something. There is no point in giving the whole thing a different legal form. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: You can't do that with a law! The managers are supposed to do that!]] That was your misbelief at the ÖBB, which is at the post office. Your disbelief and unfortunately will always be your disbelief! They don't want to do anything but take off the debts, and write so beautifully into the bill, the debts are to be paid out of dividends. So far, nothing has changed. Change would be something if higher dividends were to occur if the operation were to work better. Federal Minister! It is no longer your area, but you should know, for example, where structural measures are possible, namely in the bus service - many years ago all the fractions have known themselves to be a merger - we are now facing the situation that Draxler and Sindelka are investing heavily in their own bus services and are no longer talking about merger. That is why nothing will change at all. – This is just an example, Minister of State. You have not integrated any structural reform into this package. You have just presented a load package. You must finally take note, Minister of State, of the fact that tax increases do not create an investment-friendly climate in Austria. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Oja!]] They're just going to sell business. That is what you have to say to the business loyals who believe that this tax package is so taxing in some areas that it simply kills many businesses, Minister of State. You should trust those professionals who work in the economy who know what is going on in the economy, and you should finally introduce tax reliefs to revive the economy in order to create an investment-friendly climate. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: That would make the deficit even bigger! The liberals want an even greater deficit!]] Then you would have more tax revenue in the final effect. However, you have not understood this to this day!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e5996	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6017	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is quite surprising that Mrs Bauer, as the head of the ÖVP's women's group, is speaking today, because in the previous discussions on women's concerns she has only won by silence. And the position of the female speaker has taken over Klubobmann Khol in a rather sad, yet loud way. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Is Dr. Khol not a good woman's speaker?]] You can really discuss this, will you? Wives spokesperson is my name for him, wife spokesperson, but not spokesperson for women in general. Mrs Bauer – unfortunately, she is no longer here now – has once again mentioned the threat of abuse by women in her speech. I would just like to answer her with a question: Does she also see a risk of abuse if a father's imprisonment is not considered a cause of prevention for the karence? I would simply like to ask her if she does not realize that a child is being punished and that there is an expression for this, namely sheep liability. I had hoped in and out of this time that we were already beyond this time. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Mrs Bauer said that the ÖVP wanted to attract the woman to the herd. I have a different concept, namely the term "throw" because you do not push the woman into the labour market if, after a year and a half, you do not create a framework, you push many women, especially single women, into need. And, unfortunately, that's a fact. That Mrs Bauer is not marching at the demonstration, does not surprise me – one can have different access to demonstrations – but that she did not co-examination in women's affairs, I think she disqualifies as a woman's spokesperson. But I would like to come directly to the budget. Our Budgetary Spokesman, Mr Haselsteiner, has already put in place, and for himself, the fundamental criticism of the rather uncertain course of the process, which has made it clear that constructive participation is neither desired nor possible on the other hand. And I believe that this limited possibility of constructive participation is the only explanation for me that the women of the coalition parties can at all agree with these planned measures. If we are talking about an offensive, courageous programme, an offensive, courageous budget, then I think it is in principle positive if, when creating new jobs, it is at least noted that the particular situation of women will be taken into account, but the reality is unfortunately quite another, a sad one. In spite of the under-average employment rate of women in Austria, despite the lack of women in senior positions, despite the higher unemployment rate in women, there is no concrete action, there is no impulse that would actually contribute to the creation of women's jobs. On the contrary! The opposite has already happened, because a very female-discriminatory bonus-malus system has already been decided by a majority in this House. In addition, there are no approaches to social security for minor employees, and this also affects to a very large extent women. Moreover, in the field of austerity measures it is of course particularly obvious that this package of savings is not balanced that it is particularly striking to women, in a rather subtle way, as I think, as the introduction of the bonus malus system has already shown. I really looked through these laws as far as it was possible. The de facto reduction in the karenz period has already been discussed. You, Mr Minister, expressed the hope in your budget speech that more men would participate in educational work as a result of the new regulation. I am very afraid that your hope cannot be fulfilled because there is no social policy approach in these laws, in these adaptation laws, which would allow a realistic division of the choice between man and woman at all. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If the Secretary-General of the EIA still needs a study to confirm that there may be differences in income between men and women, I would advise her to take one of the studies already commissioned by the Minister of Women or simply to take the social report to hand. Then she can save herself this study! Your solution proposed as an income compensation for women, Mr Finanzminister, will probably not be able to finance you. In any event, I would be far better if effective measures were to be taken to finally reduce income shears between men and women's incomes. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But there are many other very subtle disadvantages in your laws, such as emergency aid. While emergency aid is still granted for one year, after half a year a new application must be made, and regardless of the risk of losing entitlement, this second half-year will depend on the duration of insurance. In particular, young women, women in training who have fewer periods of insurance, are greatly disadvantaged. The Works Aid Act, with the help of which you definitely cut the operating aid to 18 months, because a splitting of the karenz time is not foreseen from the outset, has you either thoughtlessly, overhastedly or perhaps also deliberately included. I cannot imagine that you have meant it in this form as an offensive for women entrepreneurs. In the meantime, you have corrected the Karenz leave extension law. In any case, you would soon have been ill - given that you would have paid this re-entry aid only if a partner had taken advantage of the entire two-year leave period. It is particularly dramatic for women, however, when it comes to retirement periods. As a result of the need to repurchase periods of training as insurance periods and the amount of pensions, it becomes particularly difficult for women. The fact that the maximum contribution base, already reached by only very few women in relation to men, is the basis for the calculation, is only one point. The de facto reduction in the retirement period also reduces the contribution of women to pension insurance by half a year. For the repurchasing of study periods, about 6 000 S per month will be paid to female academics, with about half of them at school, i.e. 3 000 p. But if you consider that the average income for female academics is only as high as the income of men with the completion of a middle-level vocational school, then you will see that women are faced with very difficult situations here. In addition, women with higher education – as Mrs Petrovic has already pointed out – will hardly be able to enter their pension at 55 years of age, as is possible for men at the age of 60. What bad surprises are still waiting for women must be noted first. I refer to the article "Confusion with Method" in the last "profile". Women are likely to remain on the track in several other areas of this confusion. Mr Finanzminister! Let me talk to the education sector. You announced yesterday in "ZiB 2" that it would be necessary to slow down expenditure dynamics in the field of education. One is already spending 100 billion schillings in Austria for education. I have to say once again that this expenditure dynamics is primarily concerned with the fact that we in Austria have the right to be protected by law that we have a very reformable salary scheme which is actually responsible for the explosion of personnel costs. Minister! They have tried to cope with these personnel costs in 1995 by reducing the unit values. This has, to a great extent, had a negative impact on the educational conditions in schools, by increasing the number of students, by worsening the school offer and so on. In 1996, you try to enforce it by reducing secondary school hours – unfortunately only as a purely saving measure, because there would have been a chance for a educational reform here too. I wonder, Shortening Then you'll end up in 1997? Because real reforms in the field of education are due to the resistance of the teachers' unions, because of the successful self-tiring tricks of a two-thirds legislation and also through ideological incement. There are still many points to address here – unfortunately, my time is not enough – but a real special feature is that you actually intend to link the family allowance to the duration of the school. This will punish parents who are unable to afford follow - up hours, thus in fact rehearsing will be even more expensive for society, even for parents. If you really want to save in this area, you'll get rid of this crazy repetition of classes! Here you could achieve a savings potential of a billion schilling within two to three years alone by 50 percent reduction. In addition, you could also reduce student suffering. Mr Finanzminister! I don't think women can happen to your offensive. In your budget speech, the word "education" has not been used once at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6082	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6103	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bauer spoke here and began by saying that it was unfortunate that women would always be mentioned only in connection with complaints, that women would always be talked about only in a complaining tone – how bad it was for women, how poor they are – and that no other image appeared, especially in the last weeks, when this – as she sees and draws it – was a complaining picture. However, she overlooks the fact that she herself is a woman's spokesperson here of a party, a government party that has made a significant contribution to the fact that – and this is obviously limited to opposition parties – the women of other parties have to present this picture this way over and over again. But it is not about women themselves being the defendants, but about the fact that the situation is a cause of complaint and that it is a cause for complaint and it must be criticised that the government here presents a coalition pact and a savings package in which women are the ones who pay for it. This situation makes it necessary for us to constantly criticize this. If you perceive this as a situation of the complaining women, this is a distortion of perception, and for this distortion there is still some other thing. What particularly surprised me was that Mrs. Bauer was able to present the work of art as a progress, that, if the time of birth is reduced to 18 months, unless the father of the child takes over the last six months, even if thanks to God the legal claim is still preserved, it is only after two years to get back into the profession. This is a perception that I cannot follow, because if I look at the majority of those women who use this time of leave, then those who are also urgently dependent on being financially supported with the corresponding paycheck. And I wonder how these women are supposed to last for those six months, for which they do have the legal claim, but do not have the money. How do you imagine that? They seem to be so far away from the reality of the majority of women that you no longer have this perception at all, but as a woman's spokesman, go out here and say: Thank God for continuing to secure this legal claim. – What does a woman with an average income begin to do, far below that you have or just imagine? What, then, does a woman begin by having this legal claim, but not the money? It has also been mentioned by my previous speaker, but I would like to mention it here again that the second hook is on the foot of it, so to speak. For what does a woman begin by taking advantage of this time of leave, which, by reducing the special emergency aid, does not have the opportunity to really care for her children, because she is determined to return to a profession, to pursue a profession again, if at the same time we know that you have used the famous kindergarten billions you have promised for a long time, but never made available, only on massive pressure at 600 000 s? [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: 600 million!]] 600 million schilling! Yes, I'm sorry. At the same time, however, you have delegated responsibility for this and have not taken in any possibility of evaluation at all, whether it works or not. As I see it and as I have at least done, you will continue to do so in 1997 with ease, and you will not make any evaluation at all, whether these 600 million schillings have been applied to ensure that childcare facilities are available to a sufficient extent throughout the day. But you obviously don't care about it all. This has been said, and it must also be said – as criticism and not as pity. It is a criticism, and it is not always supposed to be criticised as if something were to be pityd. It is a very clear criticism that this coalition package and this budget lack any approach to women's politics. I can only add that up again – I'll do it shortly – but it's a remarkable list: It is the reduction of the leave of leave from 24 to 18 months; it is the punishment of those women whose men are in prison – it has already fallen the word "sippenhaftung" – at the expense of children who really cannot do anything for it; it is the fact that the last time no valorization of the care allowance is planned; it is the reduction of the theoretical maximum duration for special emergency aid; it is a reduction of the famous kindergarten billions; it is the removal of the birth grant. It has also been carried out here, which means that this measure, introduced with a big blow, is deleted years ago. It has been pointed out how important the health of women during pregnancy, the preparation for birth and aftercare is also in the following two or three years of life. All of this is now dropped by the removal of the birth grant, because the incentive necessary to ensure that it is really fully respected and implemented is removed. It is the removal of the ability to earn, or the limit of 3,600 s, which is simply a joke and a pang, otherwise it cannot be described; it is the difficult re-entry, led above all by the introduction of the criterion of availability, which does not at all take account of the women who are in this situation. What does availability mean here? Who evaluates availability? Is that the case-law of the competent staff member? Who evaluates the availability of a woman who has children at home that she takes up? Who assesses what can or cannot be expected in this situation? – There are no further ideas at all. As already explained, the difficult re-entry through this gap of half a year results. And it's finally – and that's what has already been said – the whole fractions of retirement periods, the billing times for women. In her speech, Madeleine Petrovic has already shown very vividly and dramatically that it is no longer possible for women with a qualification from the Matura to retire at the age of 55. It is with this savings package – you can't even call it a savings package, you can only say that this package, which you have presented there, is a criminal action for women and for single parents you have started there – has succeeded in tackling no structural changes at all in spite of all your promises during the election season and in setting it down in the coalition package. The whole thing's not even a hole stop. The whole thing is just an eye-removing. They have not made any structural changes. For example, you have not even addressed a uniform pension system, although, as we now know, this would have a high acceptance in the population. You'd probably only deserve traces with that. But you have not addressed this problem in any way. There is no word on this in the Coalition Agreement! The whole budget project is marked by the fact that you are trying to stop a hole by tearing up a new one, it is marked by the fact that you have not done anything in the actual political solutions. Finally, let me repeat what I can only say again and again: The whole also reflects a piece of reality. If we come back to what women's policy accent your policy and your federal proposal has, I must say, the whole reflects only this piece of reality, which also shows itself here. For to what extent are the women really represented here in their ranks? – To an extent of 20 or 25 percent. This is far below what you have been doing and proclaim for years, far below what you are going to house in election times. If you were to fulfill this promise, then it is likely that coalition agreements and budget programmes will also look completely different and have a different face and shape.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6143	Mr Eder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The need for fiscal consolidation is, I believe, undisputed and has been stressed several times today. Incontrovertible, above all, because it is primarily about maintaining the economic scope that the Federal Government has used so successfully in recent years. It was also disputed that any consolidation programme of the federal government, but also the other local authorities, which also have to make their contribution, would have to focus on social balance in particular. Many reactions to the budget working group under Minister of Finance Mag. Climate proposals have shown that this social balance has reached a broad consensus. However, there have also been protests by individual groups, which must be dealt with seriously. This dialogue should not, however, lead to a detachment of the entire catalogue of measures. In addition, taking into account the necessary employment effects and increasing the attractiveness of Austria's economic location have been included in the planned measures. I would particularly like to focus on economic and employment policy impulses. Each consolidation package, which, in a simplified way, covers over two years of sustainable and structurally 100 billion schilling, will undoubtedly also have to produce negative economic effects in the short term. At the same time, the Budget Group has sought to set employment and economic policy impulses through the corresponding offensive aspects of the programme in order to achieve the appropriate balance. Many economic professionals have also confirmed that this can be achieved by means of the proposed measures. As a general impulse, I would just like to mention the introduction or aggravation of pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' pensioners' incomes. The intensification and rigorous fight against undeclared work also lead to legalisation and thus to better social protection of jobs. However, a number of targeted financial measures were also planned, with significant emphasis on the construction sector, which has extremely high domestic value added and enormous employment efficiency. In particular, I would like to mention rail infrastructure financing, where 60 billion shillings of investment can be moved within five years. The increased referral of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft will also create and secure an estimated volume of about 3 billion schilling, especially in building, employment. New financing models in the area of the management of the high-level road network will also provide appropriate employment policy impetus in this sector. The vignette is only a preliminary step in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! In the same direction, the commitment to speed up the resolution of rental interest reserves in conjunction with the use of manufacturing investment and the increase in the funding for housing development will be effective by around 2 billion schilling per year. Experts have estimated that, in particular, the quantifiable measures will enable more than 20 billion schillings per year in investment volumes. The corresponding job effects include secure or created jobs in the construction sector, in mechanical engineering, as well as in the relevant subcontractors and are expected to go to the tens of thousands. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the reduction of administrative costs, the concentration of procedures and the facilitation of business start-ups will have further positive effects. In addition, the results of the various government building summits, which were held at the end of last year. For example, it was agreed to increase the construction costs in the federal road construction by around 600 million Schilling and by around 200 million Schilling in the federal building. Through the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, numerous additional projects are already under way, including the transfer of a building from the University of Klagenfurt to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft a few weeks ago. The social partners expect the above measures to have a labour market impact of up to 80 000 additional jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even if this is put off by the opposition, the current SPÖ-EIA consolidation programme is also marked by the fact that, despite consistent expenditure savings, public investment and the employment impact of the planned measures are widely devoted. In the housing sector, for example, this concerns, among other things, the extension of housing development. In my opinion, this extension should also go hand in hand with an initiative to further increase the efficiency of the housing promotion system and, in particular, its social security. Studies have found, for example, that the amount of household income is positively correlated with the use of sponsored dwellings, but also with the size of these apartments and the associated amounts of funding. This means that the better the household income, the higher the amount of funding. A sensible structural measure could, in my opinion, be to review the income of the budget on a regular basis not only in the event of the allocation of funded housing units, but also in the light of their reference. In particular, this is about reducing the difference between very well-deserving but cheap residents and those – and these are especially younger people – who have lower incomes, but have high housing costs. Of course, this requires a revision and a precise definition of the concept of income in order to minimise the possibilities for design, how they are still open to different professional groups, thus unifying the requirements of the claim. In the case of significantly increased incomes, the implementation of this measure provided for the possibility of a socialised, faster repayment of housing promotions. Of course, such changes in the laws of residence should also be taken into account. The same applies to the mandatory resolution of rental interest reserves provided for in the consolidation programme. The employment policy effect, which is linked to this, particularly in the area of housing renovation, seems to me to be of great economic importance. There is, of course, a need for accompanying safeguards in the relevant anti-terrorism regulations. In particular, with regard to the specific tax possibilities of the rental interest rate reserve, a focus on energy-saving and cost-saving investments seemed to me to be extremely useful, especially as economic researchers are argued that over the next decade investment in the thermal insulation of old buildings could be created between 75 000 and 138 000 permanent jobs. I would also like to add an additional proposal to the debate, particularly in view of the re-enhanced receipts currently being issued. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Of the currently offered 4 percent Kest-free residential bonds, a volume of around 8.4 billion schilling was placed at the end of 1995. The maturity of these bonds is usually 12 to 15 years. The housing banks themselves refer to the fact that, in particular, the exemption from capital income tax from the public is cited as decisive for the drawing, whereas the special expenditure effect is negligible. It can therefore continue to be expected with considerable interest, despite the consolidation programme and the associated restriction on special expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen! If new housing bonds with full capital income tax freedom are allowed at a minimum period of 20 years, it is estimated that an emission volume of 1.5 billion schilling would be placed on the market annually. If the current loss of income tax on this volume is expected to be about 15 million schilling due to the existing 4 percent Kest freedom, and if, for example, capital income tax is reduced to up to 6 percent, the loss of revenue for the Minister of Finance will increase to only 22.5 million schilling per year. This means that an additional annual ban on revenue of only 7.5 million schilling could trigger a construction volume of up to 4 billion schilling. This would bring not only 3,000 new dwellings but also, above all, 3 000 additional jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that we will have the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee's deliberations, perhaps here too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Returning to my statement of entry, I would like to stress once again that not only two thirds of the planned consolidation will be combated via expenditure-side savings measures, but also a social balance is ensured by the fact that all types of income and population groups have to make a corresponding contribution. Of course, higher incomes will be taxed to a greater extent than low. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the proposed consolidation programme will undoubtedly bring with it restrictions, but all the population groups will be affected according to their performance. At the same time, the focus has also been on setting as far as possible stimulating impulses, in particular taking into account the stressed labour market situation. Ladies and gentlemen! The common and constructive effort must now be made by all those who are interested in the fact that our country can continue to pursue the successful path that has been taken over the past decades. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6285	Mr Puttinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6307	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we are at a time when contrasts attract each other. In the days of the Declaration of Government, it was not only the 113th anniversary. The death of Karl Marx, but also the birthday of Albert Einstein to 117. Let's go. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Everything we got here in this plenary room, the audience on the gallery and the people in front of the TV screen today and in the last weeks seems to be knitted after a certain pattern. To remain here with the opposites, I refer to it as a black and white pattern. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Promise and broken – that's the pattern!]] The opposition has nothing better to do than criticize everything and turn it all into a negative one. We, as representatives of the coalition parties, naturally disagree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Mr Trattner! At least you took a job with you. So you can study what you will tell here in the future. I have nothing against it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why I would like to begin my speech with a quote from Leopold Figl, who once said: Do we keep together, work together and stand together. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He has promised and kept!]] I believe that this quote is much more justified and should be realized these days. Although we are not in such a difficult situation today as at the time, we are no longer ready to give up anything in our society. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr. Col., I'm still coming to you. The fact that the students are the only population who react with strikes to the necessary savings package is certainly due to the responsible behaviour of the social partners, to their willingness to contribute to the common good and thus in the interest of their representatives palpable cuts inside and outside. This, ladies and gentlemen, should all of us learn today: something to contribute to achieving a long-term goal. I do not think it is justified for the opposition parties, whether green, liberal or blue, to miss the opportunity to compromise. This is unjust, ladies and gentlemen. It is a common objective. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A practical example: What would have happened to Bill Gates, the Microsoft CEO, the software multi from the USA, if his first facility had been a garage somewhere in Austria? [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Then he wouldn't have been there!]] He'd have thrown the towel soon. You're right. Bill Gates would probably have been the first problem with the commercial authority. At the moment when he opened his gate, the first employee had been employed, the labour inspector would have been there, and the holding would probably have been closed. Who knows how many Bill Gates there are today, how many Bill Gates we have made life difficult by our regulations, by our regulations? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have the responsibility to do this. Let us use this responsibility for Austria's economic location! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What about the minimum corporate tax?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the beverage tax?]] We need – and this has been said more often today – a new climate, one that promotes business start-ups. We need a climate that benefits skilled employers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We need a puttinger! Name guarantees quality!]] I can tell you one thing: I prefer to have a coalition partner, where I get a red head when negotiating, than to fulfill your wish and get angry with your interlocutory speeches. We don't need to discuss that at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Working productively has failed than talking into it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We need a climate that improves the competitiveness of our businesses. We need a climate in which entrepreneurs again feel that it is worth working at Austria's economic location, and we need a climate in which we can promote our exports again. [[Calls.]] High house! The 1996 and 1997 budgets will contribute to this positive climate, which the entrepreneur needs especially in difficult times. [[Rejoicing]] [[Call to the ÖVP: A worshiper!]] However, the ÖVP representatives of the economy will be introduced to the new Minister for Finance in order to also demand all that is not within the budget, which is therefore not budget-effective. I am thinking, for example, of compounding regulations, of simplifying working time rights. I am thinking, for example, of youth employment, of the consequences of the laws. I am thinking of capital formation in terms of equity companies, administrative simplifications, simplifications in wage settlements, things that are not necessarily budget-effective today, but which we can assume can be realized together – coalition, but also opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What did you do?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA is a guarantee of a responsible budgetary policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With it, the stability of the Austrian economic location is guaranteed and strong schilling is not in danger. You could have proved it once that you want to cooperate and get through with your ideas. They only demand: 40 billion schilling, and then say: You didn't agree. I haven't heard anything today. I'm so sorry not to be able to serve you better. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Stability is an essential prerequisite for foreign investment. Stability is an essential prerequisite for securing jobs. Stability is an essential condition for the creditworthiness of a state. Stability is an essential prerequisite for favourable interest rates, but also for social peace. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me close with a quote by Wilhelm Röpke, the thinker of the social market economy. At the beginning of the 1960s, it formulated the following characteristics as essential conditions for economic recovery: "Self-discipline, sense of justice, honesty, fairness, common sense and respect for the human dignity of the other." I'm asking for all of this in this house. If we want to ensure stability in Austria, if we want to go a leading way in Austria, we also have to meet these conditions. Only in this way can we achieve it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I appeal to you once again, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's do something and let's leave it behind – this also applies to the opposition – someone else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6499	The next speaker is Mr Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6520	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger's speech and the example of Bill Gates made it clear what a serious failure in Austria this government is responsible for and what an anti-economic climate is in this country. Mr Puttinger! I congratulate you on your speech. You could actually enter the ranks of the opposition, because your appeals will disappear, will go into emptiness because they are not taken seriously in your own party. I take the appeals made to us today by individual speakers of the government parties seriously, although the invitation to co-operation will not be particularly fruitful, because it will not move any more. It has been said by several parties that the ideas the opposition brings here cannot change anything in the package already decided on. Nevertheless, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to make some suggestions, which I am also presenting here as a member of the Kärntner state government at the time. I personally cannot understand why the Federal Government is still being tolerated that there are very many double-tracks and even triple-tracks in the course of the administration. An example: In the Federal Building Administration there are the BGV I, the BGV II, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, the individual offices in the federal states. There is a lot of need for coordination, as there are many loss of friction, since there are inconsistencies in the handling of projects that could be avoided, one would seek clear concepts and lines. Federal Minister of Climate! In the area of road construction management, the problem is similar. There is the Federal Road Administration with the Ministries, then there are the Landerorganisations, and there are also the Special Societies. I myself have experienced how difficult the administrative path is. If you finally have a project with which already the federal officials are involved, after long discussions, after a long assessment phase, after many analyses, project maturity on the table, you have to go to Vienna and have it judged by other federal officials, and there the decision will be postponed to the long bank. There are delays in harming the economy which harm the economy, which harm the federal state in which this project is to be implemented. Therefore, it would be my wish – an idea, an inspiration that I see nowhere, in no coalition agreement – that there would be clear structures that there would also be more competence for countries to finally eliminate double-tracks and to achieve greater efficiency and savings. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! We, too, in Carinthia, when we were able to bear the responsibility there, thought about structural reforms. Under the time of the head of state Dr. Haider, a comprehensive structural reform programme has been discussed in the Kärntner state government. We managed to realize the idea of the budget centres by the example of the road construction administrations – which was then approved as a pilot project. The budget implementation was decentralized, small units were created and responsibilities were transferred. For example, we have set clear targets for the road championships. A budget was also given to the department responsible and said to them: If these goals are achieved and it succeeds in achieving a saving success, there is – even for employees – a premium on the wage. It worked. We have been shown to have saved 70 million schillings in a relatively small area in one year – with the result that the employees were really motivated, that they were taken first and that performance thinking took place. These are the ideas we would like to introduce from the opposition, because we believe that this system would save billions of shilling, which would create real scope for necessary investment in the economy. Federal Minister! As part of my work in Carinthia, I was able to get to know you when we jointly implemented the Carinthia Transport Association project; I met you there as a truly determined minister. But I am now concerned – this one pleases me when I analyse your budget speech and your statements – that you are in danger of even falling into general political phraseology, where you make the mistake of not addressing the really hot iron. I am afraid that, like your predecessors, you will make a bow around the hot iron – this is because either the time is not yet ripe to discuss it, or perhaps you do not have the right hold back in the party to carry out these important structural reforms in the end. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let me give you a few examples. Of course, I have also looked at the agricultural budget and I have come up with it – without now wanting to talk about the large agricultural policy – which potentials alone are breaking in this small area of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Since Austria's accession to the EU, many administrative activities have been transferred to Brussels; the rest has been transferred to the agricultural market in Austria. This means that little work remains for the Federal Ministry on and on its own. Nevertheless, there is no idea of, for example, bringing together the two departments of trade policy and market order. The reason for this is quite easy to see: because in this Section III, an employee of the Molterer cabinet gets a high and well-deserved post, which, in addition to his activity in the cabinet, naturally represents a decent bread. Or: Why is it not traded in the forest and water section, even though the venison and avalanche cultivation is outsourced? There's no combination either. Or, the law department. In every modern administration – in Bavaria, for example – the lawyers are assigned to the departments, to the sections. Only with us is that not possible. With us, our own legal department will continue to be maintained. Why? – Only because a 34-year-old ÖVP party, a good party soldier, must of course also exercise power and be supplied there. Minister! As long as power and care-thinking are in the foreground and the officials are exhausted, but the politicists are protected, we cannot agree to such a budget and such a tax package for so long! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or, another example: the pension reform. It is an old liberal idea to put together the many pension insurance institutions. First of all, they said: Well, that's a typical populist liberal proposal! In the meantime, a study by the Federal Chancellery has made it clear that there are, of course, potential savings. But what are you doing? Instead of really treating this hot iron, avoid it and simply increase the pension contributions from the farmers and the traders. This is not the line that we want to know as a reform line! They are punishing a professional group affected by death. Structural change is defined as polite, I call it farmers' deaths. Farmers are punished twice: once, by rationalising them, and once, by increasing their pension contributions, with the argument that they cannot make up for their own financing. However, if you take into account those who have been rationalised and now have to pay into other pension funds, you will expect that the share of self-financing among farmers is much higher than that of the other comparable pension funds. All of this could be eliminated if one were to show genuine reformism. But we expect that as a liberal and as an opposition in this house! Now also a thought about the economic location. As a Carinthian, this point is of particular concern to me, because our federal state is in the final position of almost all economic data due to the most serious failures in the last few decades, which only really break up so correctly. We currently have an unemployment of 30 000 people to complain about. The unemployment rate in Carinthia is 14.3 percent and this is really alarming. But They now come and demand a toll fee. For Carinthia, this is in fact a double toad. Every truck that supplies goods from Carinthia to other federal states – especially to Salzburg and Tyrol – has an additional burden of up to 12 000 S per year, and this is especially true of the small and medium-sized economy, and this is what shape the country, and we do not have large corporations in Carinthia. This is the problem we have in Carinthia with your load package! I would therefore ask you to consider this again. This, of course, is also true of tourism, which has already experienced a valley trip last year. This is now under pressure once again by this discussion. According to the Carinthian tourism company, this toll causes a great damage to tourism: 1.5 billion in summer and 300 million schilling in winter. Or: They spoke of the establishment of farms. How are we to live in Carinthia with this competitive disadvantage? Of course, everyone who has a business today is checking the cost of the site. Of course! [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate:... the taxes lowered! That looks like it!]] Yes, Mr. Minister! But you can't deny that this double toad is a Carinthian specification. It is no wonder that the Carinthian Chamber of Labour protests massively. All Members who sit here today and hide themselves – like Mr Leikam, for example – make holy oaths in Carinthia that you will act against this double-mare. The decision taken by the Carinthian Government to prevent the Carinthian Landtag from coming to our Members in resolutions, and certainly also to you not to further burden the Carinthian economic location on this measure, is not useful at all, yet we seem to be getting deaf ears on it. Your President, your party friend, said in a press service in Carinthia that these demands had been swept out of the table in Vienna and there was an incredible ignorance that was being met in Vienna. I would ask you, Minister of Finance, to take seriously our really well-intentioned reform proposals, and not forget the Carinthian economic location, and this is my particular concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6578	The next speaker is Mr Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6599	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder spoke here of an initiative in the field of thermal insulation, which means that these effects are positive in terms of both regional and employment policy. I can tell him: I am also this conviction. I'm just asking why there was nothing to hear from the Declaration of Government – just a moment! – why there is no such thing as the employment agreement. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I said that yesterday!]] A thermal insulation offensive was not the case, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: 800 million schilling!]] It is also quite clear why here the beautiful words actually outweigh the deeds. If you make your statement yesterday, Mr Federal Minister, then on page 25 you will find a single sentence on the field of energy. You are proud that you will introduce a comprehensive energy taxation. But I'll talk to you later. One thing is quite clear about the appeals made here from the speaker's point of view to the opposition, but may I ask you to support this package of savings, but it is important that this is important for Austria – I refer in particular to Mr Puttinger – to say: Ladies and gentlemen, this coalition, which is now back to the government, is not only on the government since yesterday, it has been this great coalition between SPÖ and ÖVP in recent years, and it has been this coalition that has caused this result in Austria. Making yourself ready now and wanting to share the responsibility with the opposition, but during this whole time it was not willing to accept proposals for changes, that is a double morale, ladies and gentlemen, which is to be deeply rejected! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: 800 million schilling for energy-saving measures!]] These 800 million schillings for energy-saving measures, Mr. Federal Minister, are reduced to 100 percent with the energy tax you are introducing and where there is absolutely no willingness to exclude renewable energy sources. You won't be able to dispute that. Federal Minister! You have appealed to the opposition again today, but you may go this way with you, because it is very important for Austria. I ask you why you are not willing to discuss their actions within a time frame that is acceptable here in the House. For it was you, Minister of State, who said: I will – have She said literally – do not allow anything else to be changed in the committees in Parliament on this package of savings. – These were your words I could hear on the radio! If so, I'll tell you: There is no willingness at all here in the House to discuss our proposals honestly. You are not even willing to discuss whether the measures you are planning are equipped with the efficiency that you claim here all the time. For example, the entire environment in this declaration of government has been lacking. That's just classified under "early running". This mistake has not happened to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the coalition parties, but is behind this system. Again: I refer, in particular, to your statement yesterday, Minister of the Environment, in which you said that an important measure in the overall package is the introduction of energy taxes on gas and electricity. In this way, a comprehensive energy taxation will be introduced with the inclusion of the mineral oil tax already existing and raised in the previous year. That is why it is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, because, in the entire discussion about the environmental tax reform, it has always been said – I remember well – that it is not possible to do so alone, which endangers the economic location of Austria. Today it is a great merit to this coalition. I don't understand the world anymore: Either you have not said the truth before, ladies and gentlemen, or it is just a question of political will whether you want to introduce an energy tax or not. But even if you want to, I'll ask you: Where, then, does the tax relief of human labour remain in this overall programme? This is not given, it has been overlooked generously. In fact, energy taxation does not contain an ecological component at all, it is only part of a panic-like money acquisition operation. They have tried to scratch something wherever it is, to try to clean up those evils in the next few years that have been caused by this great coalition in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! Introduce higher energy taxation in Austria, which is obviously a matter of political will – you have proved it with this government programme. The design of this tax would, however, be a matter of political far-reaching, and this can only be missed in this context. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Example: Electricity Tax Act. In the Electricity Tax Act, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to read about renewable energy sources. There will be no exception for electricity generated by wind power. There will be no exception for electricity that has been produced photovoltaically, i.e. by solar energy. There will be no exception for biomass-based cogeneration. There will be no exception for biogas-based power-heating concentrations. This is something that the EIAs should have called for in particular for agriculture. Nothing of it has been done! – because it's not about it, because it's quite obvious; everyone knows it: It is a commitment by the Federal Government to comply with the Toronto objective. The Federal Government has become aware of this, and the coalition parties have also become aware of it. But nothing has been done in this regard. You see that you will not achieve this objective, and you are not even willing to introduce an exception to renewable energy now in connection with the Electricity Tax Act. The example given in Germany is indeed striking. In Germany, there has been an in feed-in law for renewable energies since 1991. The result was that the wind power industry has been booming formally since 1991. This has led to some 4,000 new jobs in this sector alone in Germany. In 1995 alone, 7 billion Schilling were invested in this area. This is all the money that remains in the regional area, which is value added that remains domestically, which would also relieve our trade balance and reduce our energy dependence from abroad. Nevertheless, there are no such exceptions in Austria. And you, Federal Minister for Climate, are not even willing to discuss this in the Committee. You said: I will not allow anything to be changed in the committees on this package. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say something about renewable energy: Of course, the feed-in is also dependent on the tariffs paid. The EVN in Lower Austria, for example, try to keep renewable energy sources out of the grid through network delivery charges. Nothing is done about this at political level. Under Federal Minister Schüssel, there was a voluntary agreement with the association of Austrian electricity plants, according to which there are increased feed-in tariffs for renewable energy sources. This agreement will expire at the end of 1996. But the new energy tax that you, Federal Minister for Climate, want to introduce will remain after 1996. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that the only approach you can achieve is that renewable energy sources cannot continue to be broken down. Again: It was this great coalition, ladies and gentlemen, which led Austria into this dilemma. It is this great coalition that is now responsible for this situation. And today, on the one hand, to appeal to the opposition, you may want to carry this package, but on the other hand not even open the door and discuss it honestly here in the house, that is double morality – and that is to reject deeply! Again, Minister of State: You don't want any change. The Liberals have already heard that the debate in the House is not desirable either. However, we will still try to highlight those points that we are convinced that they do not serve a sustainable development of Austria. I would like to point out once again that it has been said before the election: Energy taxation alone is not feasible, is bad for our economy. - Now you do it. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: It's about cover!]] It's not just about the cover, Mr. Federal Minister. It is a question of increasing energy prices in general and, in particular, of not making structural reforms, because renewable energy sources have not been opened in any way, in order to be able to take a real foothold on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! As we are once again telling you here in the House that we want to discuss this again in the Committee, it would be appropriate for you not only to appeal to us with the same willingness, but now to say that you will at least address our proposals in a discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6693	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6714	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The savings package you presented to us for 1996 and 1997 shows me that I am from the economy that its content cannot be seriously meant. No entrepreneur – as small as the company could be – who bears only a little responsibility would trust to think in advance for a period of only two years and cause damage in these two years, whose follow-up costs will only explode. Why, as I said now, can I tell you by example now? I am thinking, for example, of the fact that you have suddenly come to the point of reducing the amount of sickness benefit. Of course you can say: Not us. That's what the compulsory insurances do. – But the compulsory insurance now cuts the amount of sickness benefit because there has been almost no regulation and reorientation of the health care cooperation fund for decades. That's why the health insurance companies now have to cut the amount of sickness benefit. I can tell you how this will look in practice. If you refuse adequate rehabilitation to a sick or disabled person today and the return to the work process by degrading him to the benefit of social assistance after a year, the consequences will only explode. You don't know what's coming on you today! It's just that you haven't achieved any success with your savings package. Rather, they have weakened the weak even more and have pushed people who have had nothing to laugh so far into the distance even more. That's your savings policy. They have the goal of taxing higher incomes accordingly more than the small incomes in no way achieved! None of us sitting here would have done it very much in his budget if he had had to pay higher taxes. No poorer would have been harmed with this! But the rich were not damaged again, but only the weak incomes and those who depend on social assistance, which depend on the state's benefits. But it seems that school has already taken place in Austria, that you always press right on those who can least defend themselves. I would also like to give you a specific example. With your savings package, you have prevented people from exercising the right in the future to achieve better qualifications, to study and to enter the professional process only after that. Because with your savings package you prevent any way to study! Who can afford to buy retirement periods with 55 years, just because he has not already entered the work process at the age of 17 1/2? We all know: Those who have to start working at the age of 17 1/2 years, in order to be able to ever consume their pension, are forced to work only in the field of auxiliary jobs. Maybe you can do another lesson – more is not for women inside. That's it. They force women to work at the age of 17 1/2 years, which clearly shows that they want to reduce the number of female workers and to prevent them from having access to studies and higher education. They want to push the women back to the herd, they should see their fulfillment there. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: A woman on the stove can be happy too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Minister doesn't listen to you at all because he talks to Mr Barmüller!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the times have long passed when women have been pushed behind the stove. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You can then talk to me, then everyone will probably understand what you want to say! I don't understand, either. I have a hearing aid. You can save yourself that. [[Further calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] It is only important to you that you demise the women again that you bring the women back into dependence on men. Then you'd have achieved what it's always about you: It's only good for women to remain dependent, and the man has the saying, the Lord has it in the house. Whoever has the say in the family always depends on who brings the money home. That's it. If women can't earn anything, then they depend on men, that's undisputed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: At Puttinger it is the other way round! That's where he's behind the stove!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is the sole opinion of Mr Schwarzenberger!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] You have also asked the disabled people – I have mentioned this a few times – not only for the cashier, but for your savings package to be so badly damaged, so that they really have no chance to live themselves, to set up their own lives. [[Interference of the Federal Minister Mag. Climate.]] Minister! You don't need to shake your head now – it's quite like that. They no longer give disabled people a chance to study. It is financially impossible. They don't even give people with disabilities the chance to go to the regular school. It is already clear that for disabled people integration will only be possible if there are so-called leftovers. Then you can put in a few disabled people. But in principle you want to miss us the right to integration not only from school, but already from kindergarten, because the announced "Kindergarten billion", which was also about integration places for disabled people, has been reduced to 600 million schilling. This is at the expense of integration places for disabled children! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The emphasis is on "announced"!]] If you are not willing to allow integration already in the preschool age, this is usually never possible again in practice. For example, you can compare this with someone who is not disabled: Try to lock up a non-inhibited person for 30, 40 years somewhere. Do you believe that when he comes out, he is still able to challenge his existence independently? - Never! And if you lock up disabled people for 20, 30, 40 years today by blocking them away from society, then they simply can't achieve the quality of life or the goal of really being able to live as a part of society. I can't do that! That is true, I can confirm from my own experience. I was locked up for 20 years! And what that means going back to society after that, I can tell you. However, my exception – and I have to say that – has been missed because I somehow managed to escape the seclusion network, so I am here today. But many of my friends didn't do that. I have had to grow 20 years old to be allowed to go shopping alone, because there is no infrastructure in the protected environment where the disabled and the elderly live. There, what comes to the table is eaten, and no one knows what things actually cost. If you believe that you can make people this way, then you are quite clearly in error! You can't encourage anyone and lead them to independence by locking him away! I can't do that! But now disabled and old people are being locked away again. And in the event that they should still try to achieve a piece of normality for themselves, we have already put in place very specific measures in advance to prevent this piece of freedom, in any case, by reducing the small pocket money they had up to now by 50 percent. In other words, they have lost 50 percent of their minimum design potential. Disabled people and old people can no longer go out because they simply don't have the financial basis for really going into society and living in society. That's the reality! Minister! I'm astounded. We wrote you a letter five or six weeks ago, in which we They are very attentive to these things and in which we have already shown what the consequences of your really inhumane savings package, which is particularly at the expense of disabled and old people, will be. However, we have not received an answer to that to this day. I don't think we're gonna get any more. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: New Ministry! He didn't know where he was sitting!]] We have also received no answer from Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, from Vice-Chancellor Schüssel or from Minister of Social Affairs Humans. To date, we have not got any answer to the question of how to continue with disabled people in the future. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Mrs Collaborative! Mr Sozialminister Hums has negotiated this in detail with the disabled. I didn't negotiate.]] Minister Klima! That's not true either – I have to tell you! – but you have tried to pull the disabled organisations over the table – you mean the ÖAR in concrete terms – but you have not negotiated with them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Social Minister Hums has pulled you over the table!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: I didn't negotiate it with anyone.]] I also know the "offer" of the Ministry of Finance to the ÖAR. This "offer" of the Ministry of Finance to the ÖAR has never and never has anyone negotiated, because it is simply so unbearable that there is nothing more to negotiate about. You did not just leave your negotiating line, but you even put a lid on it during the negotiations! First it has been said that at the expense of disabled people, 1.9 billion schilling will be saved – that was the first report. The fact is, however, that at the expense of disabled people over the next two years, not 1.9 billion will be saved, but 3.5 billion schilling. Your negotiating team in the Ministry of Finance has said quite clearly to the disabled: 1.9 billion schilling? Yes, that is true, but not for two years, but only for 1997. We do not even mention what we are saving ourselves this year, namely 1.5 billion schilling. We are only talking about the 1.9 billion for 1997. So you tried to kick us twice and pull us over the table twice by making the sum for a year and not for the period of two years, although it was always clear that this savings package was intended for a period of two years – and not for one year. They have probably suspected that we are not so wise and cannot count so well that we can count one and one together! – Faith Give us the following: These times have been over for a long time! We can calculate one and one faster than you might think it is possible! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on Members of the Liberals!]] But that wasn't the worst thing, it's getting even worse. – I mean, if it wasn't that sad, it would be funny again. They are still trying to create additional jobs at the expense of disabled people – with their own resources, which are practically already placed on zero – that we are supposed to pay for disabled people. They are trying to do so in concrete terms by saying that if someone is no longer "bending in the home" today – that is, not being forced to do so, or by all means being prevented from coming into a stationary facility – then at least one assistant should be appointed. – Yes, how do you imagine that? – Faith Do you think that with 2,000 s of care money you can hire someone today and secure social security? – That is absolutely impossible! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Ederer can probably do this!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: What action is this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a community that happens! A big community!]] I'll show you! I can now present to you what the countries have already done from your proposal for the appointment of assistants. Upper Austria, for example: Amateur caregivers are supposed to be professionals. – It says quite specifically: If you want to be cared for by non-professional assistance – and if you do not see disabled people, what professionalism is and what is not, you have to imagine it! – to whom a so-called nursing police should come to determine whether they are really cared for. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: World alien!]] That means, in concrete terms: With me, then, every three or four weeks – I don't know at which interval – someone walks in at the door of the apartment and see if I've been well cared for, handcuffed and puddled. I don't think that's how it goes! As my care for me is best, only I know, and I don't need any police! I don't need the federal police and I don't need the police from the country. I bear my own responsibility, and you can believe me: I'm not going to mess up and screw up and perish, I'm not going to put my care money on the savings book – I don't have any – but I'm going to see that I'm improving my quality of life with my care money! And not only will I do that for myself, but all the disabled and needy people have tried to improve their quality of life with the current care money we had. And this quality of life will now be greatly reduced to us again. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] I would like to read something to you – in the Article-15a contracts relating to care insurance – that is to say: "The countries are obliged to set up and ensure comprehensive outpatient services in the long term – with a view to ensuring that disabled people no longer have to live in stationary facilities, but that they can be cared for outpatiently. Large homes are to be reduced and their expansion stopped." – That was the fundamental tenor in the Article 15a treaties. A report from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": Upper Austria laments, Linz laments, there are not enough 200 nursing beds there, because one has not complied with this Article-15a Treaty. Furthermore, this report also states: 50 percent of the people living in stationary homes today would not have to be there if they were not forced to do so! Often these are not cases of care at all, but people who are simply older can no longer go shopping and where perhaps the social network is missing. 50 percent of those people who could be cared for at all times without major difficulties sit and lie in these nursing homes – and that only because the Federation never forced the countries to implement their articles-15a contracts. The countries – the federal government has been looking at this – have made a proper allowance with the care funds and have expanded and not reduced their stationary facilities. There are hardly any outpatient services in Upper Austria. Every job for an old helper in the outpatient service is a skewer run that goes on for years. This is the wrong saving policy, Minister. I'll tell you once again: That's the wrong saving policy! You can't force people into sinful, inhumane institutions somewhere, you have to let people live in society, not only because they have the right to live there, but because it's more human and because it's also cheaper. It's sad when you have to say: Please leave us at home, because we'll come home cheaper than if you're in a expensive home somewhere. It can't be! Your savings policy is going in the wrong direction, and the follow-up costs if you go through this now will fall on your head in two years, so you really won't know where to go. You can't take anything away from us, because we have nothing left anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e6999	I note that the remaining speaking time for the Greens is two minutes, because the clock was set to 20 minutes, 21 minutes was the speaking time. Two minutes are still open. The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7027	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now been in this House for a little over five years, and I must say that the staging of the budget debate has not changed much, and the distribution of roles has been like that. [[Abg. Meisinger: That's logical!]] In all cases of concern: The opposition has not left a good hair on the budget presented, and the representatives of the government parties naturally highlight the positive strategy of the budget figures. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Cheers!]] The majority of the population has also taken note of the fact that this time the budgetary consolidation has not gone by. Nevertheless, I can understand that there is no applause from all sides that those affected also defend themselves. It is a gratification to make massive savings and yet – I think this budget has succeeded – to avoid a shattering. This double package budget has two key priorities, which go through almost all areas, as the first priority of the stability of the currency and thus the stability and predictability of the economic location of Austria as the most important prerequisite and second, the safeguarding of employment and job creation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Save and strain!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I consider this to be the most central issue in these years of the coming millennium, because I am speaking out of particular concern. I come from a region where unemployment is a daily gift with which people have to live and live. We have the highest unemployment rate in Austria in the Bruck district at the Mur. That is, with us there are 3,600 people without work, 3,600 people who feel separated from society and prosperity, 3,600 people who are desperate to retrace the labour market and have few prospects for the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: Up to 16 percent in Burgenland!]] That is where we are called for as the political leader. The government, but also here in this House, will be measured by what we are actually implementing from the budget. It is precisely this that we are living up to the verbal statements of employment security, infrastructure development or an active labour market policy to be forced. This includes, to the address of all the political groups in this House, the fact that urgently necessary improvements in transport technology are not blocked, such as the Semmering base tunnel so urgently needed for the economy of the Upper Styria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also means that apprenticeship training is finally adapted to the demands of time. I call on the economy to take away the brake gap and finally agree to a future-oriented apprenticeship training. Apprentices are not cheap assistants, but they are the capital for our future. I think no one here believes that an industrial or economic location in Austria is possible without highly qualified skilled skilled workers. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Are you for the dual education system?]] We are very much in favour of the dual training system. Because of the importance of research and development and a higher teaching of research funding, it will be urgently necessary, indeed, to eliminate barriers between research institutions and the producers on the workbench. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Because innovative spirit – you can then report here and give your lightful explanations the best – could lead to more success and thus to more employment. For savings, all have more understanding when the most basic needs, namely a secure workplace and a safe income, are also met. I therefore very much hope that all the employment-saving and job-creating impulses of this budget will also work, and I expect that these impulses in the budget – the training programmes for qualifications, the programmes for business settlements, for research and development – will lead to more businesses and thus more employees.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7141	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7163	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is very often formulated that the budget is the policy put into figures, because the budget means redistribution and, of course, with these funds policy is made. It is no wonder, therefore, that the opposition is massively criticizing the budget presented. But we must note that over the last few years we have decided on measures, partly jointly decided on the financing of which we underestimated. For example, social welfare rose from 135 billion Schilling in 1990 to 213 billion Schilling in 1995. That is, within five years there was a 50 percent increase. [[Abg. Aumayr: What did the farmers have of it?]] - I'll be right there. The family tax compensation fund, for example, amounted to 41.8 billion schilling in 1990 and 55.7 billion schilling in 1995. After all, this is also an increase of 30 percent. Or an individual measure which is particularly sensitive to it is the second year and part-time aid measure taken in 1992. Karenz money was estimated at 3.7 billion in 1990 and 11.5 billion in 1995. – An expansion of 300 percent. And there is no way to say that we are doing bad family policy and social policy. Or: The housing aid was disbursed with 18.5 billion schilling in 1990, with 24.1 billion schilling in 1995. However, this is also an increase of 30 percent, with a further increase in the 1996 budget for housing development and also an increase in 1997 as well as an increase in the impact of labour market policies on housing development. – I have only a few examples to mention now. It is therefore not enough if the opposition merely opposes the austerity measures, but at the same time requires tax reduction and then criticises the high level of indebtedness. This is a Gordic knot that can't be solved. [[Abg. Aumayr: You save only for the Maastricht criteria, Mr Colleague!]] If we were to include the opposition proposals in the budget, we would have a budget down to 200 billion schilling in this year. [[Abg. Aumayr: The tax package is just because you need the money for Brussels!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: You don't clean up anything, colleague Schwarzenberger! It's all going to Brussels!]] Mrs Aumayr! You should know that the federal government can only distribute as much as the taxpayers pay or make up the borrowings, which you will then have to repay with interest rates and interest rates, which will be paid by the taxpayers, but probably only by the next generation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Aumayr: 30 billion for Brussels!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: The debts you've accumulated are for three generations!]] We are not living so badly in Austria that we are transferring our present problems to the next generation, but we should try to be economical in the next few years. [[Abg. Aumayr: To Brussels!]] You can then speak. I have only a limited speaking time available. You can't sit in the first bank, just make calls and don't speak in the debate! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With a deficit reduction of 100 billion schilling per year, of course, all levels of population are affected. But there is no reasonable alternative for that. The farmers, who already had to make great sacrifices with the accession of the EU, also have to bear considerable burdens, but the current low increase in the cost of living index is primarily due to the approval of basic food, in which farmers had to take a significant loss of income. In addition, the budget for agriculture and forestry will fall by reducing degressive payments from around 33.2 billion schilling in 1995 to 29 billion schilling in 1996 and 27.3 billion schilling in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Order in state finances is a fundamental requirement for policy to regain scope. And these scopes are conscious to be used to finance those priorities that are enshrined in the Government's work programme and which contribute to employment and location security. Especially at international level, there are major challenges for Austrian farmers. This is, for example, the development of the common agricultural policy, but it is also the EU's Easter enlargement projected at least in the next few decades. However, this is also a recent discussion on the development of the World Trade Agreement. However, in all these negotiations – and this is what we demand here – we need to take into account the regional situation of Austria with its small and medium-sized farmers' structure. In the future, we want to maintain our rural family farms and to speak in an ecological way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, as honourable Member Haider said today in his contribution to the debate, it cannot be said that instead of increasing taxes, it should reduce the -50 subsidies granted, because that would again mean that farmers would have to purchase further reductions in compensation payments in addition to the degressive compensatory payments. [[Abg. Aumayr: Are you giving farmers subsidies or subsidies?]] We therefore consider that: If the 1996 and 1997 budgets are implemented within the framework of the amount presented – and of course there will be some changes in the Committee's deliberations – then we will be able to maintain the stability of our economy and our schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7313	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. I would point out that I have to interrupt the deliberations at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7335	High house! I do not want to fail to thank colleagues Schwarzenberger. Mr Schwarzenberger! It was an open and honest speech for the first time. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] You have admitted in your speech why we have this budget disaster. – You’ve been paying off in recent years, colleague Schwarzenberger! You have said that all the measures you have taken in recent years cost more than you have believed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There have been a number of social and family policies!]] You have also admitted that you have not managed to take up real structural reforms, and that is why there are now these incisive measures on the back of all Austrians! Thank you very much for this openness! I hope to hear more of the speeches in which you finally admit why we need to discuss these load packages today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It would be nice if you were so honest!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Where are the structural measures? They did come up with this coalition in 1986 to solve the major problems in this country. And it was always two points in discussion, Mr Schwarzenberger: One was the pension, the other was the health care. We are now again discussing the fact that these two areas are no longer to be financed. But they're going the wrong way! Especially on the side of the ÖVP this is interesting: You don't say, we're trying to make people taste their own care to get a discharge for the state, no, you're doing the exact opposite. They would like to stress to the people the incentive about the withdrawal of premiums, the insurance premiums and see only that, as far as possible, all depend on the state apparatus. Mr Schwarzenberger! Just one example of health care: In the largest hospital in Austria, in general hospital, the hospital bed – only the bed – costs 10,000 s per day! The health insurance fund doesn't even pay 2 000 s for it. [[Abg. Donabauer: Stop with the nonsense!]] Mr. colleague, 8 000 s a day is paid in the Vienna General Hospital only for the bed! [[Abg. Donabauer: Read this! That's bullshit!]] I'm in there for a week myself. I know that – unlike you, colleague! 8,000 S paid by taxpayers. If this patient is privately insured, it will of course pay the private insurance. They are now deleting this incentive system. What would that cost, Mr. Collegue? Take an annual premium of about 16,000 s. In the current system, this would have saved 4 000 s a year. 4000 S would have cost the state, which is half a daily premium that the taxpayer in the AKH will pay for a bed. That's your system, now to make every schilling as fast as possible, so that you can stop the budget holes – but for the future, you've been dealing with even bigger problems than you've had before. It's the same with the private pensions. Again and again we demand a three-pillar model, Mr President. Where is the incentive for private provision, that we can tell people today, a private provision is made so that you will have a corresponding income in the pension and not depend exclusively on the public pension, because it will be difficult to finance in the future. This would be the structural measures needed to finance the government budget in the future. But they're just straining. They have said: revenue and expenditure on the one hand. By means of revenue and expenditure, you burden the population equally. – Structural measures would have been necessary in order to finally be separated in these areas and to achieve positive effects for the future. We would expect this from an active government! But it has not at all been your concern; this has already been expressed several times today. You are now making a budget for 1996 and for 1997, and in 1998 you will try to put a cue on it again. But I am sure that this will not happen at all, because the voter will finally issue the invoice for these tax packages at the latest in 1998! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[16:00]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7427	I am now interrupting the first reading on the two federal financial laws for the purpose of implementing the requested short debate on a request for a deadline. The short debate concerns the request, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the Government Template 72 of the Supplements, which is the Structural Adjustment Act 1996, a deadline until 15. The Commission has decided to set up a working party on the basis of a report from the Commission on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place just after this brief debate has been held. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure no speaker can speak for more than 5 minutes, nor can he speak. First of all, Mrs Dr. Schmidt. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7461	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At this meeting, you would like to see the budget committee responsible for the report on the Structural Adjustment Act within a period of 15 years. April, and you want to do the same - and this is a pity - obviously at the next meeting for the discussions on the federal financial laws. They obviously want to do so because you want to secure a discipline measure from a majority – and not only that, but apparently also to take the opposition parties into their duty and secure their co-responsibility for this crazy schedule. You will not succeed, at least as far as the Liberals are concerned. I still remember very well the prelude to the National Council election. You may also remember that it was the Liberals who voted against new elections until the last minute. There have already been requests from the liberals and the Greens here in the House for an early end to the legislative period. The Liberals did not want this, but we wanted this government to work properly and fulfill its mission. It was only at that time when it was clear that you were refusing each other any willingness to discuss the budget, only when it was clear that there was no chance at all, that we agreed to the request for early termination of the legislative period. This was not to confirm the correctness of this National Council election, but should only underline the irreversibility of this decision. In particular, Mr Khol, you have publicly reinterpreted this voting behaviour of the liberals of the more often, who have held me personally of the more frequent: They were for these elections to take place! – Obviously now you want to achieve the same thing again with the same measure. They now want to act as if the opposition and therefore as if the Liberals were finding this timetable right. Something else happened. It is true that this timetable has been drawn up together, that it has also reached agreement in the presidency. That does not mean, however, that he is correct, but that means that we wanted to express here that we do not want to block because every day that goes by costs 35 million schilling for this state and we do not blame ourselves for the need you have to answer, so that it means that the Liberals are to blame. And obeying this need, we have tried to create a structure that is still reasonable if it were a structural adjustment law with a different scope. Now you say, because we agreed to the presidency: Now we are also deciding on a time-limit! This means that regardless of whether it is necessary to negotiate for a longer period of time, these negotiations must be terminated independently and that the presentation should be put to the plenary session. In other words, you want to transfer the responsibility to the opposition: You have agreed that everything must be done at this time! – If If you remember what kind of push paper is here, when Mr Hazelsteiner took the floor, then you will not really say that eight days of serious treatment of this stuff of paper can take place! Even bringing together my efforts in the presidential, at least an internal time structure that does not give any great explanation of principle, if you have only three hours of time, but can ask and answer many questions, has not led to any success, for other reasons in turn. I'm just taking this for granted so that it doesn't mean we even wanted a shorter speaking time. All in all, we wanted more time to discuss this matter, especially because you have practically failed the review process, because a time between two and eight days – much more was not available – cannot be enough to actually comment on those templates that you sent out. That is why you will certainly not get the Liberals' consent to this request for a deadline, because the responsibility for this Wahnwitz will be taken over You like yourself, with your two-thirds majority, who are so proud of you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7519	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. He's got the floor. – Similarly: Speaking time 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7540	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1996 budget, 1997 and the budget accompanying legislation are indeed a very ambitious project. We are proud that this Federal Government was able to be formed in such a short time period and at the same time negotiated the budgets for two years, together with the budget accompanying laws, and that, in this way, the largest reform package has been achieved in budgetary terms, but not only in budgetary terms, which has probably ever been in the Second Republic. This has also been put under temporary pressure by the government, and this, I say openly, puts pressure on the National Council. But the answer cannot be that, because of this ambitious project, we are calling into question from the outset the possibilities of implementation, but quite the contrary: We have compiled ourselves with the compromise that is required, in talks with the opposition and a schedule. We have also reached agreement in the Presidency that this timetable will be kept and will not be disturbed by what actions always happen. There is agreement to implement and decide on these budgets and this budget accompanying law in the one and a half months ahead of us. That is why I am really annoyed at the fact that, as a case-by-case network for this agreement in the presidential, the whole agreement will be called into question by your side. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I take your announced voting behaviour as the first act of dissent, which always exists in budgetary laws between government and opposition. It does not take much imagination to predict how you and the other political groups will vote in budgetary matters. You will say no, that is perhaps – I do not understand it – to question the business of the opposition, but to call into question an agreement in the presidential, is not part of the commonness that this House has always awarded so far. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: No one does that!]] You yourself have said that the agreement on time we have found is still going on. They have thus expressed the fact that we have implemented and implemented this line of separation between the interests of the opposition and the government with this timetable. It would be nice if you would have stayed there and accepted it here as well. The pictures you produced for tomorrow's newspapers are misleading. Dr. Hazelsteiner! The laws also contain much that makes work easier for you, namely work aids, explanations and corresponding documents. Please, don't distort the picture like that! We're ready to work with you. We have worked out this schedule together without prejudicials, and I now only appeal to you: Recognize the outcome of the joint work in the Presidency!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7578	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7599	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For seven weeks, the negotiating team between the two government parties needed to develop this large reform package – two budgets and the Structural Adjustment Act. We are setting a time limit of six weeks today to take the necessary decisions in the National Council. I do not think it is too much for all of us to work the same day and night as the government parties have done, and we are now taking the decisions that the Republic is waiting for. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! I have to tell you the following: Please do not be so blue-eyed and do not understand the deadline request. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: I have blue eyes now!]] You know very well – the last few days have shown it – that if there are opportunities in the Rules of Procedure that can be used by someone to put a stick in the spokes of the wheel, these possibilities have always been used. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Six days!]] We owe it to the responsibility of this country that we know: It's an opportunity for thieves. We want this great reform work to be decided at the specified and possible time, and we know that this accompanying law can only develop its reformatory effect in time for that country if it is in place on 1 January. In May, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council We must therefore decide on a time-limitation request, otherwise there will always be the possibility of applying a delaying tactic, applying a fruitification tactic and preventing us from taking decisions in order to point out and say: They didn't do anything again! – We will prevent that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Furthermore, let us not be so sad: The bulk of paper, which was spread here, was processed by our local speakers in two days. You have as we do parliamentary staff, you have as we do excellent staff in the club who will help you study and penetrate this legislative work, which is broken down in about twelve major materials. We are a working parliament, we are expected to work, so we are working, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7662	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Haider. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7692	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that there is an agreement on a timetable at the Presidential Conference, as the Club members of the SPÖ and the ÖVP have noted. If, however, the head of the Group of the Austrian People's Party adds that a period of time is needed because the opportunity is open to thieves, then he assumes that his contractual partners are political thieves, who are exercising fruitification here and are not acting in the sense of control. But then you must also be pleased that we have the suspicion that it is not just about bringing this budget over the rounds, whose late completion is not our thing. – You have broken the new elections from the fence and not the opposition! [[Congratulations on the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] That is why you must also accept that we are against it, given the situation that you have attached to the whole package a number of constitutional provisions which are intended to prevent the rule of law from continuing to function in this country as a political thief. In fact, they want to go over it and also want to raise our concerns about the individual retroactive constitutional laws relating to tax policy ad absurdum, saying: Nevertheless, with our two-thirds majority over it! – So there will be no such thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, even in the review procedure, the state government, for example under an ÖVP head of state in Carinthia, informs us that the laws you now want to go through in connection with the budget lead to a preservation of the Austrian law culture! To preserve the Austrian law culture! [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Andreas is out of custody! Watch out for Khol!]] That is to say, these constitutional provisions, which you want to go through, are basically, ladies and gentlemen, nothing but the spring awakening of authoritarian-fascist thought in the state offices. [[Live calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's exactly what this is all about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We're not going to join this spring awakening! We must safeguard democracy and the rule of law. And neither will we, ladies and gentlemen, be involved when things are constantly being prepared in structural laws that are being disputed today. An example: This morning, the ORF reports that the accompanying laws also intend to extend daily working hours by means of an ÖVP initiative to ten hours. [[Call the ÖVP: What?]] - That's not true, yes. This is demented by colleagues Feurstein immediately. Social spokesperson Feurstein dements according to APA that his party has prepared such a request or even plan – or even plan! It's right, you're dementing. Nevertheless, I have a request from you here. [[Ui-Rufe with the liberals.]] I have a request from Mr Ridi Steibl and Dr. Feurstein, which is on page 3: Daily normal working time must not exceed ten hours – change. – And there is on page 4 for the reason: The collective agreement allows the weekly normal working time to be extended to 48 hours and the daily working time to be up to ten hours. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They disregard Parliament and lie to the people sitting here! Saying Quite Consciously You're the untruth here. And now you want to go over with your law machine, with your two-thirds majority, by talking in public differently than you then presented it to the Austrians. – The opposition is not available for this! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not the democracy that we imagine. We will resist this form of abuse of parliamentary democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7785	Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, yesterday, on the basis of a report of Rules of Procedure, there was a brief debate on the purpose of making pro- and double words. Col. Dr. Haider was classified as pro-redner. If he had been classified as a contra-redner, the line of speakers would be different. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We don't let ourselves be cursed as a thief!]] Secondly, I would like to expressly reject the expression "authoritarian fascist way of thinking" from this point of view. I can't accept that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: An absolute abuse!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: As President, you do not have to judge my speech, but only to consider whether I comply with the Rules of Procedure.]] [[More violent calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have not yet given a call for order in this legislative period. I now give the Member Dr. Haider a call for an order for the expression "fascist way of thinking" - addressed to the address of members of this House. I would ask Mrs Langthaler to tell me whether she is a pro- or a contra-redner. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr President! To the Rules of Procedure!]] - One by one. Are you a pro or a double-redner? - Pro-Pedner. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Pro-Redner!]] Mr Stadler has reported on business treatment. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7883	Mr President. First of all, I would ask you to note that, at the time of Mr Khol's speech by our folder, the speech by Mr Khol was not yet known and therefore could not be addressed to Mr Khol ex ante's speech and we fixed the content of Mr Khol's speech during Mr Haider's speech. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr President, I would like to ask you to make a statement on why, on several occasions, our group's request for similar accusations, as they have been raised today – and for which a call for order has been issued – has been refused a number of times in the event of the occurrence of this type of order, whereas today, at the request of the Social Democratic Clubman, such a call has been issued immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7935	Mr Stadler! You will hardly be able to give me an example of this legislative period, where my presidency was aware of the fact that I had not heard such an expression. [[Call to the liberals: Several!]] In addition, I do not hold the Presidency in dialogue. I now give the floor to Mrs Langthaler. I hear she's in contra. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: First, don't call for an order, then one! That's an interesting thing!]] I interrupt the session for a few minutes and ask the clubmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e7980	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Langthaler has the floor as a counterredner.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8010	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the clubman of the Freeman, the head of the "F" movement in his choice of words is not exactly squeezy and that from his side there are always formulations to be rejected, of course, especially when it comes from this side and precisely as far as this trend is concerned. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where we adapted to you!]] But in the matter and in the way in which Parliament is "overrun" here, where we are supposed to have budgetary sovereignty, he is certainly right in some things. And it's wrong if everything that comes from the right side of the house gets damned in the ground and ground, and you don't think about it, you don't think there's a lot to think about, if there's any criticism in this sharp criticism, there's a grain of truth in it. Of course, it is absurd – and that has been the case in recent years: in a comparison but not as dramatic a situation of the budget – as Parliament has been dealing with. There has already been a disregard for the House so far, in the form that the government has simply been "overrun" in budgeting. And I still do not understand how little serious the individual Members here in this House are about budgeting, especially when it is supposed to be structural measures, and how little they take this House seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This two-thirds majority and this great coalition are politically bad for this country. There can be no living parliamentaryism, no exciting parliamentaryism, no parliamentaryism necessary for this republic if this great coalition simply fights away over legitimate criticism and concerns of the opposition parties. Of course, it is not possible to properly consult them on the one hundred structural adjustment laws, and of course it is not possible, as a Member of Parliament or as a Member of Parliament, to actually adopt the budgetary authority if, in six weeks' time, one does not peddle these legislative acts through this House. There is an agreement in the Presidential, but it is absolutely unnecessary to have a deadline application decided here. Perhaps there is a distrust here within the great coalition, because you seem to have to notify it again. This is completely inappropriate, and so you just take away a bit more of necessary sovereignty from this house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You take the whole thing here, obviously not seriously the whole debate at all. It's all going to be a maclar. We are no longer here as the notarial body of a federal government, where everything has been formulated until the last point and where Parliament is obviously seen only as a majority and as a formal decision-making body. They do not do a good job for democracy in this country, and they prevent the creation of a European standard in Austria, as you always want. We will therefore not agree to this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8060	I don't have any further words. The debate is closed. In addition, we have made it clear earlier that written applications will be made at the time of the time limit for the two federal financial laws. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, for a period of 15 years. The Commission has decided to set up a working party on the basis of a report from the Commission on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request for a deadline, to give a sign of approval. The request was decided by a majority. That concludes the short debate. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8100	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Mrs Motter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8125	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I would like to make a brief comment on your speech at the outset. I'm just as surprised as you are, but I'm also annoyed at the way you're doing the care allowance. I can follow your statements fully and I also agree with most of them. I would just like to tell you, Mrs Haidlmayr: Go to the country of Upper Austria, too. For countries too have tasks to perform, and especially in the field of caregivers as regards outpatient care, countries would also be required. I believe that we should do so in the future in our countries. However, I can offer you a model, the Vorarlberger model. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government agreement once again mentions the need for a comprehensive reform in Austrian health care. To this end, I can say from Mr Finanzminister's budget speech that, between 1997 and 2000, 3 billion Shillings will be allocated annually for the financing of hospitals if the establishment of a binding health care plan, the extension of the ambulances, the resolution of the host patient's question and the establishment of a structural commission. Mr Finanzminister, I am embarrassed at the last request of the Structural Commission. What is the Commission's intention to do to monitor and further develop health care? Mr Minister, do you not know that for years the social partners and the Economic and Social Committee have been working permanently on studies? The Austrian Federal Institute for Health and the Hospital Fund has also carried out this task, which they have more or less fulfilled. Mr Federal Minister, I therefore ask you seriously: What else is this structural commission to work out? Mr Federal Minister, if you do not yet know: There have been hospital plans since 1978, which have never been implemented. The development of system planning also falls within the competence of the KRAZAF, which should exercise a function between the federal government and countries, but it has to a large extent not exercised this function. In the years 1988 and 1993 the Austrian Federal Institute for Health has drawn up various national health care plans. ==References== On 1 December 1993, the same institution was re-committed to the KRAZAF by the conclusion of a work contract with the KRAZAF with the aim of developing an Austrian hospital plan. This work was presented in November 1994. What followed was a cry from the countries. There was no agreement again, it all remained with the old one again. I would also like to say here that the inconsistency of the Land Princes and their financial representatives has also failed to ensure that there has been no agreement in the area of health care so far in the whole of Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I can't believe, therefore, that until 27. The negotiations with the federal states will be completed on March and appropriate proposals for solutions will be presented. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a dilemma in health care, which we have been pushing back years ago. It has always been discussed here in the house for a long time without specific structural measures being taken. We also have this dilemma through the uneven decision-making and financing structures both at federal and at country level. We also have considerable difficulties with regard to federal competence through two ministries, the Social and Health Ministry. In addition, just yesterday, the social security schemes, with their announcement of a reduction in the sickness allowance, proved that they can make massive interventions in the existing system within the framework of their self-management. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can understand the desire for a binding health care plan and a structural commission for these cross-sectoral structures. But this desire remains a pious one. Mr Minister, I cannot spare you today the accusation that the Coalition Agreement once again did not regulate the competence between the Federal Government and the Länder and between the Federal Ministries of Health and Social Affairs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, Parliamentary work in this House is also suffering. For example, the Parliamentary Committee on Health is de facto paralysed by the Convention that neither countries nor states can pass laws that cause unilateral costs. Up-to-date laws will not be negotiated; I can only refer to the Group Practice Act here. A law that would bring savings in health care in the medium term cannot be passed because insidiousness prevails. I'm seriously asking: How long can we afford such a course? Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth mentioning the announcement in the Labour Convention that particular attention should be paid to health promotion and preventive programmes. In fact, this has been done in the framework of the accompanying laws. In fact, the only precautionary measure that has been fully taken, namely the birth aid, has been deleted. It remains only the hope that the Austrian population will be aware of the efficiency and the need for such measures and that the programme, which is now being re-baptised to "parent-child-pass", will continue to be used without any financial impact. Finally, I would like to say that there is no comprehensive reform in Austrian health care. The population of Austria is unattendedly invited to the cash desk by significant savings, by the current budget measures for 1996 and 1997. The public is still unsure by the government on the basis of daily reports of additional measures, such as the reduction of the allowance. Our citizens have not deserved this by paying their contributions to health care. On the contrary: They can expect those responsible to finally fulfil their obligations – this is true in many areas, but in particular in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8206	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. His speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8227	Mr President. Minister! Since I have only two minutes of time, I want to tell a little story about how the Liberals imagine budget consolidation. Before the election in December 1995, the parties represented in the Landtag had shortened the promotion of the parties, and all the parties agreed that at last this full intervention in the tax offices would be brought to an end. But a person has been particularly excited, Mr Brno. He found a loophole, and then he assumed to the parties that they would still secure these funds through this loophole, because the term running with the proclamation of the law was just as timely as one could still access. Now imagine what happened – 60 million schilling is about the amount of party funding that the parties have abandoned –: The deadline had almost expired, as a man tried to get these funds. Mr Brno found this little loophole and took out these 2 million. As he "consolidated" the Styrian national budget, he said that he must do so because his tax advisor said he could not cover his election cost debts with the money he now receives, namely 4.2 million schilling out of the tax register each year. – Unfortunately, the tax advisor so informed him. Mr Haselsteiner should consult Mr Brno, for he really knows all the holes in the budget. He knows very well there, so you should take a bond. And, Mrs Schmidt, you should really tell Mr Brunner that he should give the money back because this kind of hypocrisy, this kind of sluggishness has not even accommodated me at the ÖVP and at the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8268	Mr Barmüller has referred to an actual correction. I would draw his attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8289	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Wabl, as you have certainly been told by your name colleague Wabl in the Styria, has not been shortened the promotion of the party before the election, but has deleted the recompensation of the election costs for those parties who come into the country day; a very useful measure in itself. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is this an actual correction? That's a speech!]] It was, as you know very well, a change during the current election campaign, but there is something much more important now in the post as you have correctly quoted, namely that the costs of the election must not be paid out of the subsidies that the parties will receive when they come to the country day. Since now it seems that your side has forgotten, the election cost compensation...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8316	Mr deputies, it is the wrong fact to describe the right thing, but not to make a statement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8331	It seems to be wrong for what Mr Wabl has said that he has completely overlooked the fact that it is not about this and has not said that this electoral cost reduction will not be used, but it is a question of not paying the costs of the election from the ongoing support that one receives. And that is the piggy, which – I forgive you, I take it back – has been the unfair thing about the change during the current election campaign that the rules have been changed in the current procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8363	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8406	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of Chapter 65, public economy and transport, is also supported by the idea of savings. Expenditure of 35.9 billion Schilling is against revenue of 23.6 billion. The net savings effect is around 3.5 billion schilling. The transport sector has been and is a valuable economic support, but it has been in the past and will continue to implement substantial infrastructure measures in the future, thus maintaining jobs. It is to be understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget accompanying legislation includes the Rail Infrastructure Financing Act, where the company ÖBB will be able to finance the necessary expansion of the rail infrastructure by means of public liability loans and private capital. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on transport policy. In the near future, we must set up measures to improve road safety, and I believe that, for example, the introduction of the point leader's license would be a very important contribution, but Austria must rather be ashamed of its accident statistics in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's not true, colleague.]] Allow also on the topic of "toll" They tell me that we have to make an effort to ensure that costs are true, because, as before, the truck traffic does not even represent 40 per cent of the cost of self-sufficiency, because the passenger transport is cross-subsidised and this is probably counter-productive from the point of view of transport policy. It is therefore urgently necessary to introduce road pricing for trucks as quickly as possible. That is why we must strive, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The post also makes a major contribution to the stabilisation package in the context of the allocation. However, in 1996, the Post will have an investment volume of more than 17.5 billion Schilling available to expand and modernise telecommunications facilities. 1996 is a decisive year for the post, but you will be with 1. In May, it was distributed from the Federal Government and converted into an independent company. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand a statement by Mr Rosenstingl, who said that the Poststructural Act does not provide for any changes in the structure. I am referring to the fact that we have just been criticised by a commitment to a new structure. It is probably the responsibility of the management of the company to establish and find a meaningful organisational structure, and I am confident that the wealth of experts at the post will do so very well. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, item 1 billion schilling will be received from the public service budget. The staff costs of the Post- and Telekom AG Office are 10.6 billion in 1996 and 16 billion in 1997. This staff effort is fully recovered. The amounts I mention are revenue from concession charges from Ö-Call and Post AG amounting to 4.4 billion and 1997 respectively 5.6 billion schilling and 4.1 billion and 3.6 billion schilling from the postal sales tax. In 1997 we as owners also expect a dividend from the post in the amount of 4.3 billion schilling. ==References== January 1998 is the magical year of liberalisation in Europe through the liberalisation of voice telephony and infrastructure. The concept of "free network access" marks the second priority of European telecommunications policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8443	Ladies and gentlemen, may I interrupt you briefly: I would ask that Klubanstellte not sit in the benches of Members. Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Always the Moser of Liberals! Always the same! Previously on board and now that!]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8470	So we're going to create my own. Ladies and gentlemen, the right framework for post. The "yellow post" is separated from the dynamic area of telecommunications. For example, the "yellow post" has to define the field of public service and get paid according to the customer principle. However, the discounted delivery of newspapers and also some social tariffs for telephony fees are certainly to be considered. From my point of view, Postler's right to serve could be similar to that of the ÖBB, one of which is to be clarified from the outset: An intervention in the existing service contracts is probably unreasonable and has to be maintained. A few remarks, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly to the ÖBB and, above all, to the local financing law that we have to draw up. This will have to determine which forms of transport will be supported, where the necessary financial resources will come from, and what proportions of them will be allocated by the respective local authorities. I mean that we have to think, to think, to act here from the point of view of the customer, because it doesn't matter to the customer what transport he is on the way, what bureaucratic processes there are between the respective modes of transport, because the customer simply wants to travel cheaply with a card from place A to B as soon as possible. We are therefore called upon to try to ensure that all that we intend to achieve in the field of transport is implemented. And, ladies and gentlemen, we had to say: We've got one. In January 1994, the mineral oil tax increased by 60 bulkes per litre, and this amount, a total of 1.7 billion Schilling, was made available to the countries for transport. Today we can see that some of the countries have not used these funds in accordance with their commitment. That means we're going to have to put a bar on this one. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, we can see that we are very much required in the area of transport. We create budgetaryly correct, essential, direction-setting conditions. Let us address the problems together – the citizens of our country expect this from us.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8516	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8537	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is inappropriate that today's discussion was initiated by the SPÖ financial spokesman, Professor Novotny, with a reference to the December elections and their "necessity". I believe that the elections of December 1995 were very necessary in order to bring about a budgetary reality in this country at all and also to initiate the corresponding reforms which would result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to hold any further repertoire on this because I believe that such a side-up – whether on the ÖVP or from our side to the SPÖ – is simply unnecessary in the future. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: Mea culpa! Mea maxima culpa!]] The fact is that we are in a coalition, and despite differences of opinion, we have set ourselves the goal of working together for Austria in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I think that this has been very successful in the last few weeks. After all: The left-liberal "FAZ" confirms this; I quote only a few sentences: "Austria is proving itself by this" - as pointed out by the objective of budgetary policy - "as an exemplary country in which, without social confusion, it has succeeded in meeting the stability requirements. There are several circumstances to be attributed to the fact that the agreement was reached now, while the spirits separated in the early autumn of 1995, so that the coalition and new elections were broken. In spite of election rhetoric, one found a situation assessment reflecting the realities, made a crash and then planned on the basis of unstained figures." Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! That could also be seen from your side, I think, once and possibly also reflected in one of your next speeches. Encouraging the ÖVP is a final sentence – I quote: "The ÖVP, which broke it from the fence and whose leadership had hoped for another result, may have been in favour of providing the necessary movement. This is not very little in a country in love with the past, which can look back on 1,000 years of documented existence." In this way, this chapter should be closed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is repeatedly accused by the opposition that there are not enough reforms. I think there has already been a number of reforms in the past. I recall, for example, the second stage of the tax reform, which has benefited economic policy, in particular the economic location of Austria. We should not forget that! In social policy, there have been two very important and significant priorities: the introduction of the second year of care, but also the introduction of the Federal Care Fund. I assume that this federal care money will cast the shadows – apologies – ahead of the light. We must not forget one thing: After all, 15.6% of the population are already 15.6%, so almost 16% of the population of Austria are over 65 years of age. That is, in the future, we will be more and more concerned with the issue of old-age care. And I mean, with the federal care money, we have created the conditions for creating appropriate structures. Mrs Motter referred to Vorarlberger's structures earlier, with the reference to the possibility of understanding them throughout the country. I would also like to mention the following: In Upper Austria, for example, in the Mühlviertel – in some districts already comprehensively – we have created social medical care slogans, which are partly based on paid neighborhood assistance, but partly on voluntaryness, in the realization that institutionalised services would almost no longer be eligible for funding. – And I mean, the federal pension is the beginning of a health reform. Of course, the next steps need to be taken. However, it is incomprehensible to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition – and I, of course, also the FPÖ – does not perceive or misrepresent various facts. In his statement on the government declaration, Dr. Haider tries, among other things, to scandalize the reduction of the pocket money from the federal care money. I don't know: either he has no idea of this complex – or he has the wrong advisor. May I tell you how the social assistance laws – and here these federal states are almost the same – actually go on and on: It is absolutely not the case that a minimum pensioner, who relates to federal care, must live on 580 s per month or cover his needs that go beyond food and sleep. Rather, even minimum pensioners receive 20 percent of their minimum pension as a pocket allowance. This then does, taking into account 13th and 14ths. After all, refer a monthly pocket money of almost 2 800 S. Ladies and gentlemen! Many family fathers with three or four children do not have it. And that is why we should refrain from attempts at scandalization in this respect. However, I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not only a matter of prosperity in our country, but it is also a matter of experiencing this prosperity in security. That is what I would like to point to yesterday's event. Ladies and gentlemen! The head of the state of Upper Austria has been attacked by so-called environmentalists. [[Abg. Madl: That's not true!]] You can't leave this in the room like this: Mrs Madl! Why do you say that's not true? Please read the comment in the "Salzburger Nachrichten"! Of course, you are not right when it comes to saying that at once you are no longer on the side of those who are right. [[Abg. Madl: A martyrly behavior!]] I say the following to you, Mrs Madl: I am deeply sorry that there are also forces here in Parliament that stand behind those who claim to be environmental protection – but they are actually exerting raw violence. And that's a scandal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be said here: The Minister of the Interior is called upon to ensure public security in Austria, and there the Greens are called upon to explain how they hold up with the radicalisation of environmentalists.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8619	Mrs Madl has reported an actual correction. The provisions are known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8641	Mr President. High house! Mr Mühlbachler has just claimed that yesterday Mr Pühringer was attacked by environmentalists. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yesterday!]] That's not true. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why do you know that?]] It could not be proved – let me say – that Mr. Landesbührer was attacked, because there are no witnesses for this incident at first, and secondly it would be... [[Objection to the ÖVP]] [[Prolonged opposition to the ÖVP.]] No, even six gendarmerie officials who had surrounded him could not say that the head of state was attacked. It is only clear that the head of state at the first stage of the municipal office has been swerved.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8711	The next speaker is Mrs Partik-Pablé. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8740	Ladies and gentlemen! The savings package is an emergency programme without fundamental reforms. – This doesn’t say a messy opposition politician, but this qualification comes from University professor Tichy from Graz. He goes on to say: "I am quite, quite pessimistic. The government has apparently still not realized that Austria's economy is only growing by 2% per year and that the basic system reform requires." - That's what Mr. Tichy says. These fundamental system reforms, ladies and gentlemen, we completely miss them. We have said that again and again. In recent years we have repeatedly called for these structural measures. And now – five to twelve years ago – you miss the population a belt-knock programme, that it is no longer annoyed. However, they have still not taken up the decisive reforms that experts, politicians call for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We really fear that you will continue – from the savings package 1 to the savings package 2 to the savings package 3 – without any system change being made. And I'm really wondering: They are consecrating themselves constantly and saying how great this consolidation program is that you have put on your feet. Professor Novotny says that this so-called consolidation programme will provide Austrian state finance on a sound financial basis. Healthy structures are secured. But you forget, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, that this consolidation budget is really not a consolidation budget, because the overall debt is not even reduced by a schilling. You're just reducing the new debt, that is, you're making fewer debts. But your so-called consolidation budget does not reduce any schilling from the previous debt mountain! [[Abg. Auer: It is also about the budget and not about total debt!]] I think that you must make yourself much more aware, because then you might rather see how urgently structural measures are needed. My previous speaker, Mr Mühlbachler, said that there have already been important reforms which have benefited, for example, Austria's economic location. I can actually just laugh at that. On the contrary: All the measures that have been taken so far have led to job losses that businesses have delocated because the costs are so high because the conditions for the economy are so bad for us. You mentioned the care allowance, Mr. Mühlbachler. I would like to say to you: They do not need to boast at all, because hardly has the care money been introduced, sounds have already become loud that it should be abolished again. Mrs. Ederer has declared great that only the person should be allowed to use more care money, who has also employed a qualified nurse who costs about 200 s per hour, and 50 s may remain with the care allowance. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Unfortunately, Mr Mühlbachler is not here. I will then give him private instruction, as it really looks like with the pocket money for the disabled. 550 S now receive the disabled from the care allowance, and he says they also have the pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Now be quiet, and let me explain this to you, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 20 percent of the compensation rate!]] Finally, be quiet and listen to what I'm telling you! It stays with them of the care care 550 S. Why don't you let me talk? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But of the actual pension stay 90 percent!]] I don't think that's fair! Mr President. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] I ask you to step in. I am already saying for the third time that I want to explain this to him, and he is talking to me again and again!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8822	Ladies and gentlemen, apologise, but you are strong enough! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Obviously not!]] I'll be happy to help you in the future. Please, Mr Schwarzenberger, hold back!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e8855	Mr Schwarzenberger! There are a lot of disabled people who do not have a pension. In Association Balance – colleague Feurstein from your party knows this association – are about 70, 80 disabled. There are 20 percent – I inquired – who do not have a pension. For example, if an 18 - year - old who has never worked with an orphan's pension fails, he has no income. If someone is disabled from childhood and his parents have not worked, he has nothing. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He gets social assistance!]] It can live at 20 years of 550 S! Imagine that! I don't know if you have children. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I have five children!]] Can you imagine that one of your children is disabled and has to come out with 550 s? – You can still laugh at it because you have enough money! This is the most sad thing: you can no longer put yourself in the position of the disabled and the disadvantaged. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You polemize, and if I make calls, seek help from the President!]] I'm not polishing! I'll show you the tragic reality, but you're just laughing at it. If you go to a disabled home with colleagues Feurstein, you will see what tragic cases there are, and then you will finally stop reconciling the care money again and again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: My son did civil service in an disabled home!]] I don't care what your son is doing, believe me. But I will return to the structural measures that are so necessary. For example, you have throughout the whole... [[Abg. Kiermaier: That's incredible!]] What's incredible? That I don't care what his son is doing? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr President, the motion for a resolution has been tabled by the disabled. They collected 60 000 signatures in 1986. Before the parliamentary disaster, they handed them over to me. I have been working all these years to ensure that this care money is enforced. You can read that in all protocols. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also wonder about the blue-eyeed-hypocritical speech by Mr Höchtl, who said: The savings package is necessary to ensure that we have orderly financial conditions. – I mean, you really lie to the citizens in the bag, because we will not have any orderly financial conditions even after the savings package. If the debt could only be repaid by overindebted to every citizen of at least 100 000 s, it is simply not that we have orderly conditions. We owe over 1.5 trillion Schilling! It really cannot be said that the conditions are in order. [[Abg. Auer: Fourth place in the EU!]] I quote Professor Tichy again. He says: The whole with revenue and expenditure is a humbug. An emergency program would have been here. And in this emergency programme, fixed deadlines should have been set for all necessary reforms. – Your program has no fixed dates, your program does not contain any necessary structural measures at all, but your program consists mainly of plateaus, flat announcements like: one should, we will be, offensive, expansion and so on. Only announcements are these! You're not making any proposals at all. [[Abg. Platter: You haven't looked at the package yet!]] Please tell me how you want to create the 30 000 jobs you are constantly talking about. If you were unemployed, you would certainly be interested in how jobs are created. [[Violent calls at the ÖVP.]] They do not make any concrete proposals at all, such as the young people to whom you now want to increase your study time by cutting down the financial allocations, should once be employed. How are these young people supposed to be able to take a pension? – You leave all these questions unanswered. They also leave the question unanswered as to how the health system should ever be reformed. My colleague Scheibner has already said it: 9 000 s costs a place in the hospital. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only in Vienna!]] They have no proposals at all on how to proceed. They also make no proposals on how to make our economy competitive, how to develop research, so that we are not the final light of Europe. I miss that. Your program is not a consolidation program. Their program is the program of parties who are used to going over with the lawn mower everywhere. In reality, there is a dramatic need for action, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9019	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Your speaking time is not more than 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9040	Mr President. Federal Minister! High House! – Minister of State! You told us yesterday that in the future it will be more likely to be transferred to alternative forms of financing in the form of private public partnerships – in any case, it is on page 13 of your written statement. Federal Minister! I'm allowed to In particular, they address the following questions: What do you mean? Do you want to use it with this keyword, or do you want to pack a content? – It’s not really really transparent what you’re planning. Once there is the rail infrastructure financing law, which is rated with 60 billion schilling, in the room. It is that 60-billion-shilling package, which – of course by means of foreign financing – should only benefit from the infrastructure in the railway sector. Originally – a few months ago – it was, if I remember quite a 200-billion package or at least a 200-billion idea. You, I think, are not at your coalition partner's point of preparedness to accept that. You couldn't make a statement in the "press hour" on television, for which you really want to use these amounts, how many special companies you are planning, who is available as a partner for these private public partnerships, which will take over the default liability of the federal government. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: This was not in the "press hour"!]] Yes, that was in a press hour, Mr. Minister; I'm sure you remember. It was about six months ago. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to hear from you whether you stick to your statement that these private public partnerships should go through the stage without any failure of the federal government, whether the companies, the private companies involved in such a project really – as you have already said in the course of the Semmering debates – do not give up such misdemeanors and take the full risk. I tell you, Minister of State: Your claim of that time will not be true, and your intention, which seems to be also behind the budget, namely not to be liable for failure, will certainly not proceed. [[Abg. Auer: Who knows!]] Yes, who knows! But I can't imagine that at the best of will. Out of these 200 billion schillings, 60 billion schillings have now become in a biennial rhythm – by simple division by seven and multiplying with two. An amount of 60 billion schilling is perhaps a little easier to sell than 200 billion schilling. Only, Minister of State: That's all pure numbering. What bothers me is that you promised the management of the Bundesbahnen in the election campaign and also after the election campaign: You'll get the 60 billion schilling, and I'll make sure I guarantee it. – You probably also needed your famous sentence: I, climate, will not allow anyone to question the 60 billion schilling. But I have to tell you: Before Parliament is involved in this matter, before we do not know exactly what you really want to do with what projects are being carried out, this Parliament should not allow it to be approved. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! The words "don't allow" come to your lips quite often. You have said elsewhere – even about six months ago – that you will not allow Austrian mail to be smashed, and you have also spoken on other occasions – appropriate or inappropriately – of "not allowing". In view of so many words of power, Minister of State, I must ask you: How do you deal with parliamentarianism? We should allow such a package, as is impressively demonstrated today, to be "sudden down" here in a few days, but you do not allow so many things to happen. – The only thing you have really approved is that although a handful of experts have been able to deal with this budget, we have not. Thus, a lot of money is spent on rail infrastructure, and other infrastructure projects, such as broadband data communications, are completely opaque. There is no clear statement from you as to how much the state will invest in the next few years, whether this will also be done with private public partnerships, how much private will contribute and so on. Who's investing? The mail or the private company? – All these questions are in the room, there are no satisfactory answers. But right here, Minister of State, reality looks rather sad. If you look at the sector of data networks outside the urban agglomeration centres, you will find that you are working here with miserable transmission rates of 4 800 Baud, and not even the Pan data network guarantees the 9 600, although the post has made a statement in this regard. – I have to So you're asking: Where are the necessary investments and innovations? There are a lot of studies, pilot projects and excellent individual results in theory, but what are the last benefits of these studies if the results can be "hindermarodled" before themselves and can't be implemented? . You, Federal Minister, should not allow these concepts to be molded in the drawer. They should better explain to us what innovation steps are being taken in this area. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If you do not explain this to us and continue as you have been, and if your successor, Mr Scholten, goes the same way as you have been for the last two years, always hold behind a little bit, then, Mr Federal Minister, allow Austria to be one of the final lights in the area of the European data network in Bälde. Federal Minister! You should also not allow the Austrian post to go before the dogs. The draft of your Poststructural Act, the further financial erodement – I would just like to remind you that a number of billions are still going towards finance ministers – and the project of bringing the entire post into a stock exchange I consider to be totally inadequate means of rehabilitating the post. I say this quite consciously because I am concerned about the Austrian post. I have no interest in the post becoming a rehabilitation case. In the past, ladies and gentlemen, we had already had too many and too expensive reorganisation cases, we do not need to force a new one. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Federal Minister! Please note that we are in favour of a genuine post-reform and that we are not available to this kind of non-the-truth-sagen with three divisions and debt-holding and oversupply, and so on, so that we are not available for this kind of non-the-truth-sagen. Nor do we advocate that the private shareholder be made aware that he can buy this company in the foreseeable future. This is a delaying tactic because, as we know, you, Mr Federal Minister, have kneeled and said before the post-union union: I will not allow the post to be split up, and so in return I have prevented a strike with the postal staff. That is legitimate, only to say the truth that you have not enforced yourself in this case. I do not believe that you seriously believe that you can go to the stock exchange with such a conglomerate, with a marode yellow post, which you have to build with four or five billion schillings. In the estimates for 1996 and 1997 I did not find any privatisation proceeds, I assume that privatisation and the stock exchange will take place in 1998. I am very excited about how this will really be done, but I am also committed to telling the truth and not even putting it out at the very last moment or in a discord. I am in favour of telling the public, the potential interested parties, the public and also this Parliament the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9112	The next speaker is Mr Brix. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9133	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Minister of State! The subject area of environment is very well positioned in this forthcoming budget, although environmental promotion measures in 1996 are planned to reduce the amount of 5 million schilling. The funding will be reduced from 125 million to 120 million schilling, and in 1997 there will be a further reduction to 117 million schilling. If you look at the Federal Research Report, you have to say that there is still a lot of savings potential. I believe that there will be some additional use for other areas in the environment. With all the commitment to the need for various measures, there are always conflicts between the Federal Government and the countries in particular in the field of the environment because of the cost reduction. For example, when setting up measuring points according to the Smog Alarm Act, the Federal Government and the Länder do not agree who should stand up for what. Similarly, the planned Emissions Protection Act should definitely prevent this. There is a need for this dispute not to be included in the Emissions Protection Act. The eco-fund has stabilized again in recent years, even if there are still some detailed problems. I am particularly concerned about the problem of the East-Eco Fund, which can only be given intangible funding, and very often the realization of the project fails to ensure that there is not enough hardware investment in the countries concerned, so that all good promotion commitments cannot be realized. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are also positive parallels, such as the promotion of smoke gas desulphurisation for the Šoštanj power plant in Slovenia. In the course of the discussion on the Mochovce nuclear power plant, our Environment Minister also called for an increase in the environmental funds. A total of 542 million schilling is foreseen for the eco-funds in the budget estimate. Despite the savings package for the projects of the really very important East-Eco Fund, there should be a sufficient dosage. Ladies and gentlemen! A large number of projects are being carried out in the framework of actions in the Environment Fund. Such actions shall be subject to a simplified procedure which is suitable for handling smaller projects without major red tape. On the other hand, the specific costs of such projects often differ to a very high degree, which repeatedly leads to discussions in the Environment Fund Commission. I would like to pay particular attention to one of these issues, because this eco-fund law will be discussed in detail in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In the course of the debates on the novices of the Water Law Act and the corresponding emission and immission regulations, cost-benefit considerations are becoming increasingly important. It is to be discussed nationally whether the increase in the cleaning rate by 10 percent, whether investments in sewage treatment plants in the size of several million schilling are reasonable for the people, or whether it would not be necessary and better to put this money into other water projects, such as the rehabilitation of groundwater. The question arises whether it is still necessary to achieve a success of 76, 78 or perhaps 80 percent in the treatment plant. For the recovery of old loads, 300 million schillings are estimated in the 1996 Federal estimates as well as in the 1997 federal estimate. The main problem of old-age rehabilitation is the insufficient collection of old-age contributions from the landfill operators. The amendment of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act introduced as a Budgetary Accompanying Act is intended to improve this implementation and to put the collection of the old load recovery contributions on a new basis. High house! The year 1995 was the international year of nature conservation. It is therefore understandable if the Federal Minister has set priority activities in nature conservation. One of the activities was the ratification of the Alpine Convention. However, this Alpine Convention can only be fulfilled if the various protocols, namely transport, mountain farming, economic area Alps and so on, are negotiated and ratified by the signatory states. We're still missing that. At present, the traffic protocol is particularly important because Germany and Italy are referring to the Austrian position. But, ladies and gentlemen, one must be clear to us here in this House: New alpine transit routes on the roads are not in question for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We look forward to one thing – and this is really a positive aspect: In 1996, that is, in the year of the Millennium celebration, the Danube-Auen National Park will still be opened. From this point on, we will have a free flowing Danube east of Vienna to the state border and we can finally offer our youth a park that can present the diversity of this beautiful au. Ladies and gentlemen! The waste management sector is certainly the most problematic at the present time in the Ministry of the Environment. It begins with the Federal Waste Management Plan, in which the established figures differ quite far from reality, and ends with the known problems of the Packaging Regulation. Licensing in all areas is not yet sufficient when implementing the Packaging Regulation. This means that companies that pay the licensing contribution are still co-financing drivers, resulting in a significant distortion of competition. A reform of the packaging regulation, as we have already announced several times, is therefore absolutely necessary – even in the light of the forthcoming findings of the Constitutional Court – and must be implemented soon. An additional focus in environmental policy is the active role of Austria in environmental policy in the European Union. Austria will work in the EU to anchor environmental protection in all EU policies and strengthen Community instruments. A major commitment and a major challenge for the Minister for the Environment is to seek to ensure that higher national standards can be maintained. The European Environment Agency will have an important role to play in implementing European environmental policy. Austria as one of the pioneers in the field of environmental protection in the EU should be sufficiently represented with its excellent know-how in the European Environment Agency, and the Minister for the Environment will make every effort to achieve this representation. Ladies and gentlemen! The OECD has given a good witness to Austria's environmental policy. The Environmental Control Report was also visible. Environmental protection is a positive location factor. Austria's economic location and jobs can also be safeguarded by environmental protection, especially through an ecological structural offensive. The financing of environmental investments, including through private-public partnership models, the activation of an additional billion in the Water Economic Fund, the activation of a billion for old-age rehabilitation – these measures, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday in his budget speech, provide additional 3 000 jobs. The focus in environmental technology as a centre for environmentally sound production in order to support developments in Austrian companies on export markets will also be a task that we can carry out with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite our leading role, we still have considerable tasks to do. Above all, in the next few days, as I said earlier, we will have to move forward with groundwater restoration and groundwater protection. Above all, we have to deal with the problem of waste recovery, the prevention and disposal of waste, the general improvement of our air and the reduction of the summer ozone. Deficiencies in implementation and control of environmental rights are still to be eliminated. And above all, we need to see that the burden is reduced by traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! Protection of the environment is one of the central tasks of public health care. As part of the precautionary principle, the state has provided our society with clean air, clean water, pure drinking water and protection from noise for all people in Austria. However, it also adheres to the 'polluter pays' principle, to the principle of cost-effectiveness in the field of environmental protection and, above all, to the whole of Austrian environmental policy. In order to solve the problem of implementation deficits, we need to revise and simplify the environmental law. There must be a uniform system law ensuring that the procedure is handled quickly and transparently to the public, so that health risks and unreasonable harassment are safely avoided while respecting clearly defined limit values and avoids environmental pollution by the use of state-of-the-art technology. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will soon have to take measures against the ground-based ozone – before the summer. Not only transport, such as improved catalyst technology, but also the annual emissions review for all vehicles and especially for trucks must be on the list of requirements. However, we also need to demand industry so that we do not have higher values at the bottom of the ozone. That is to say, it is to control the printing plants, the painting plants and, above all, the production of chipboards. As far as this is concerned, the present draft of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs is not the very best. However, we must also take precautions in the field of energy that in summer there will not be any higher values in the near-floor ozone. For example, type approvals for small combustion plants, compliance with regular maintenance of heating systems, NOx limit values for all types of combustions must be checked. And we also need to promote district heating for farms. We should take an example of Vienna, where district heating has been provided to the labour market gardeners in recent months, at a cost-effective price, so that the products can also be placed on the market cost-effectively and there is no distortion of competition. I believe that the promotion of district heating would also be of great benefit to the agricultural sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we should also check the emission limits for agricultural vehicles and machines. We must also include these in the fight against the summer ozone, just as we do in fertilisation and manure production. For the coming years – and it is also provided for in the budget – measures for climate protection are planned. The countries should be given the opportunity, in particular by means of energy tax, to advance building renovations. I am particularly referring to the equipment of houses with thermal insulation, which lead to a reduction in energy consumption. A demand which has long been expressed here in this House, we should move forward: a reduction in fuel consumption occurs in the motor vehicles. It finally belongs to the 3-liter car brought to the market by industry. We have taken three steps in the field of energy taxes: The first step was to increase the mineral oil tax for all fuels by 60 sizes from 1. 1. 1994. These funds have been made available to countries for public transport purposes, and we should call on these funds to those countries that do not spend the money on public transport, but thus drive forward other expansion measures. ==References====External links== In 1995 the oil tax on fuels and heating oils was increased by 60 sizes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ways of Goods in Styria!]] As Mr Parnigoni correctly said: Instead of using the money for the expansion of freight roads in Styria, they should rather spend the money in the area of local transport. And now the third step is taken with 1. In 1996 the tax on gas and electricity increased, with the electricity being taxed at 10 grh per kilowatt hour and the gas at 60 grh per cubic metre. Ladies and gentlemen! In this budget we have many opportunities to use for our environment. We have the opportunity to move forward with the development of cost-effective methods and measures to prevent and rejuvenate environmental hazards and hazards. We want environmental protection with an eye! Progress should not be halted, but should be made after clear cost-benefit considerations. We no longer want to invest billions in canal constructions and in the extensive increase in the cleaning performance of sewage treatment plants by a few percent, but, once again, this release means are to be used for the renovation of groundwater and old loads. We want, above all, penalties for environmental crime, for example for illegal waste exports, nuclear smuggling et cetera. This is where the use of profits from these crimes is to be used. We want to continue with a clear anti-CFC policy. Austria must continue to fight against the nuclear power stations at its neighbours. We need an anti-CFC policy within the European Union. We want the long-term exit from the use of nuclear energy in Europe at all. And we want an active anti-CFC policy in bilateral and international bodies. Efforts to establish an international liability for nuclear accidents are still part of this package. I believe that the next four years of environmental policy will give enough opportunity to make a policy that will enable people to live in a healthy environment. I believe that the proposed measures are on the right path in our Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9189	The next honourable Member, who has been spoken, is Mr Donabauer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9210	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In recent years, we have had enormous economic growth. We have also focused our budget and economic policy on it, and not least on all the other achievements that the State has to perform in general. We have – and that, I believe, is recognizable every day – at the moment to undergo major changes, changes in the economy, in the society to which we need answers and also need to react clearly. I believe that this will be a great challenge and an enormous effort for all of us. We need to change things in good time with the utmost caution, which we have always felt safe. Clear intentions have been documented in both the Government Declaration and the 1996 and 1997 budgets, and clear objectives have been set. I personally believe that the citizens outside will be able to share this new development with a great deal of understanding. They generally declare that they are waiting for policy to respond to all these changes. The only goal we have to achieve is to limit the advances to the future in order to secure the scope for the future. We can't take everything away from our children and subsequent generations today. We must also take account of them and ensure that they are able to act accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We can only secure all the achievements we have today and declare so important if the economy as a whole is in order. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: In your newsletter you write something completely different!]] You don't write anything because you don't have anything to write because you don't mind. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Because he can't write, can he?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So we have to assume that things have to change, that we have to secure work and secure the economy. If we do not generate income, we will not be able to achieve these benefits in the next few years and decades. I believe that both Federal Minister Ditz and Federal Minister for Climate have made clear rules that, as I believe, we have intelligent approaches and that of the 17th. December was therefore an important day, because a rethinking took place in society as a whole and also in politics – we must continue accordingly. [[Abg. Böhacker: Tax increases!]] Mistones, Mr Reichhold, who have come here today from opposition politicians are of course. It should not be assumed that the opposition supports the government. That's quite normal. Ladies and gentlemen! What bothers me is not your critical comments, but that you do not make suitable proposals. That's what's missing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You didn't hear my speech today!]] Easy-to-use criticisms such as "sleeping budget" or "social sluggish" are the keywords you're looking for Your own party events can be cancelled, you don't need to explain them to the House here. You can keep that for yourself! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You can learn from bowls and ditz. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] It is important that we recognize where the major growth developments have been. They were in the public service – there are very clear restructuring measures – and above all in social policy. Today, it has been said on several occasions how unsocial the current proposals are. I understand that these changes are really critical, but I have no understanding of how you represent them. They say an 18-year-old son would have available 550 s for disability and nothing else. If this poor son does not have parents who are obliged to care, he can very well expect incomes due to social assistance, which will enable him to live a decent life. Ladies and gentlemen! Explorers You're on this! If it were different, you could claim it here. – You have thus made an incorrect presentation here! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You write the opposite in your newsletter!]] Next point: It is therefore necessary to rethink the pension scheme as such, because we cannot in any case continue to make labour market and structural policies in the long term with the pension system. We need to apply the pension scheme for old age insurance, and it has been created to do so. Everything else needs to be reworked and put aside. Unemployment is certainly something that is difficult for every person. If there are conversion measures in this area, then only because the system, as well as it was meant, and the approaches, as right as they were, have also led to misdevelopments. And limiting these is our task, is the challenge. We are in favour of this, and that is why we are changing the objectives. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Scheibner. You have said here that you have a hospital bill that makes up 10 000 s a day, but the statutory social security would have paid only 2 000 s. Mr Scheibner! You must, if You stand here telling the truth! – It may be that this is true, but then you were in a private hospital. This is your private decision, you can make. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, I said: in general hospital, Mr. Colleague!]] If statutory social security also pays benefits in private hospitals, this is certainly not bad. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a private hospital, you should know, and not say falsehoods here!]] I'll tell you something. We know that we face very big challenges, especially in the health field, and we will have to deal with them together. And I also expect you to be good and, if you want, intelligent proposals in case you want to bring yourself in here – if not, then these explanations make little sense, because they are simply not correct! I believe that we need to take back voluntary benefits in the field of health care so that we can secure the basic benefits, the statutory benefits for the future. This is a challenge that we must be committed to. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But you write the opposite in your messages!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, with its changes, is approved. Firstly, because we are acting responsibly and there is no alternative – I think it is important and right that we show it in good time. Secondly, because we work for today and for tomorrow and not for ourselves – I can sometimes see that here. And thirdly, we agree because our work programme should not have any entertainment value because we do not satisfy the need for self-admissibility with our work programme, but because we do Good people in this land have in mind, and we must and will serve them!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9385	Mr Ing. Reichhold has made a real statement of correction. – Deputies! Please begin with the presentation of the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9414	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer, the representative of the Liberal Party, undersigned the intellectual authorship of the term "Schwindelbudget". That's wrong. This intellectual authorship is not claimed by the Freeman, but by the Vice Chancellor and ÖVP-Obmann Wolfgang Schüssel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9447	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9468	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! We must return to the rather sad reality of these budgets after the dream interpretations of my predecessor, President Donabuer, which I have just presented, but very agil. I would like to focus on the author and editor of these budgets, our Minister of Finance. I have found that in recent times, a lot has been lost from his rather very sympathetic look, which he used to have. His smile has become rather tormented lately – I found it today – and I can also imagine why, if I recall some details of his budget speech yesterday. It is quite clear that certain things which he has announced are not in line with the truth, for example that two thirds of the measures announced concern savings and one third of revenue. It's been a long time. I'd ask you to admit that. Federal Minister! You also know, of course, that the Austrian train on the rails you are quoting – on the one hand, employment offensive and on the other hand consolidation – cannot operate in parallel at the best. But you also know that, contrary to your statements yesterday, future emergency programmes will also be needed – and this has confirmed today's debate again – because you have effectively avoided taking real reform steps. The two budgets you have presented to us here, Minister of Finance, are family prevention budgets and thus anti-Austrian budgets. They have become anti-workplace budgets, anti-economic budgets and anti-democratic budgets. Because of the burdens that will result in future generations, they have also become anti-future budgets. Even in school, young people learn that the budget is the policy cast into figures. If one is or has been involved in local policy, it is known that the budgets are helping to set signals for local policy and set priorities where one wants them. I can only tell you, Mr Federal Minister - even if you do not listen to me - that is at least in the Minutes: [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate speaks to Abg. Eder]] The signals that this government has made with these budgets are simply wrong! They are a huge step away from the goal of equal opportunities for all citizens at all levels! It is of course true that certain groups of the population are more burdened than others; for example, families. Mr Finanzminister! I can tell you in detail that the two savings packages, one and two within a year, will cut down on the family in excess of 14 billion schilling. This amount shall consist of: Reductions in family allowances, the removal of birth allowance, the withdrawal and self-reservation of free rides and schoolbooks, the reduction of the leave period and the freezing of all other family benefits. .I have a detailed paper here to prove this to you. These 14.1 billion schillings account for almost 20 percent of the total budget in the family sector. Which other group will have to buy savings at this level? – The Austrian families will have to endure this. Additional taxes in the area of income tax and energy taxation are added. That this is a false signal for the Austrian families not only says we liberals, but it proves above all a letter from Mrs. Dipl.-Ing. Angela Lindner, who also went to the Federal Chancellor. Ms. Lindner – she has left the letter to be signed by some other people – has documented two children herself and will now no longer want a third! This has nothing to do with us liberals. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: Hopefully!]] So if what you've chained there is not an anti-Austria package, then I have to say, refuse to see reality in the eye. In fact, it was the ÖVP, which has always written a great deal of family policy on its flags. At the latest today's idea of some EIA Members out here was a debt admission to the fact that it really only served as a majority beneficiary for these budgets. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I remember the hollow expression of a Rosemarie Bauer, who otherwise always appears very researchably here at the speaker's desk. I recall the purple trees that Mrs Ridi Steiblheute has beaten; she has not now dared to go to the speaker's desk before me, she has exchanged with Mr Donabauer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] - That can't be a coincidence! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is it a coincidence that Mrs Steibl did not leave? I ask her to comment on this! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mrs. Haller! They overestimate themselves very much!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: A little more serious argument!]] This is a debt admission at the widest level. Mr. Federal Minister, come back to you now. It may not have been so important to you so far that the share of childless women in Austria has doubled over the last 20 years that there are fewer and fewer child families that Austria has an anti-child society. But it is precisely from this point of view that it is not really responsible and also incompatible with the rest of the social policy that we now intend to leave the families even more alone in the education and care of children. In the meantime, you have at least agreed – in your budget speech yesterday – that the reduction of the leave allowance is to be regarded as a saving measure. Her colleague, Secretary of State Schlögl, tried to sell this in the "press hour" as an uplift of women. Federal Minister! You also have an economic study, which is why you can't escape the fact that these budgets and the savings you have set are not only a huge step back in Austria's women's and family policies, but also nationally completely absurd. If we consider – and this is easy and easy to understand – that the average leave fee is not even 7 000 S, that women want to return to work half a year earlier, that the children of these women, these one and a half years old small Buzis, then need a care place whose costs are between 9 000 S and 15 000 S per month, then this economic bill does not go out. It must also be borne in mind that in this early re-entry of women in the profession, at least 12 000 to 15 000 additional women's jobs should be available, which are not available. I would therefore ask you to deal with the model of child care check across ideological borders in your ranks, in the ranks of the Social Democrats. They have consciously put them only on short-term savings. At the latest after a year and a half, the reduction in the amount of karenz money will result in enormous additional burdens, but also in other budget pots. That can't be the sense of a saving measure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll come to the end. It is not only the bishops who recently created the short-sightedness of Austrian family policy, but also the family associations and scientists. But you're just going to get over it. I think that this is not responsible to the Austrian families, and I ask myself: How long will the Austrian families, Mr and Mrs Österreicher of both the Social Democrats and the ÖVP have to listen to the empty policy of advocating reform? – Nothing has been put on the move so far! I only recall the discussion in the family sector that has been taking place for years on the reform of the family compensation fund. This discussion has now completely died. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate speaks to Abg. Eder.]] I see, Minister of State, that you are still not very interested in the family sector. I find it irrational if in your position you do not really deal with these things in depth!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9576	The next word comes from Mrs Hagenhofer. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9598	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dr. This morning, Haselsteiner, in his contribution to the debate, said that the federal financial laws were products of the medium term. I do not think that Mr Dr. Hazelsteiner knows that if a coalition, that is, two different interests, has something to negotiate, then a compromise must simply come out. The compromises are, I think, well-tolerable and balanced, and the federal financial laws stand – that is the most important thing – for maintaining our social system. Nothing was deleted, but it was corrected. You just don't want to recognize that. But it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is the difference!]] Maintaining the social system is important and necessary. Europe-wide structural changes are under way, and we must not lose sight of that. The federal financial laws are further corrections to the general government structures, both in the tax and social systems. You can't explore that either. According to the motto: Use yourself and get what the state offers; what my neighbor has, I also get myself, regardless of whether I need it or not – so it simply doesn't work. They have always criticized this by the liberals. Now it has been corrected and changed – and you also criticize it. Corrections have been made – even this should not be overlooked – in the unemployment insurance law, for example by increasing the calculation period from six to twelve months, by taking into account the duration of the insurance in the amount of emergency aid – i.e. greater consideration of the benefit principle is required. These are all the measures – and I repeat now – that have been repeatedly demanded by the now criticizing opposition parties. Now these are enforced – please, don't criticize that again! Corrections are of course also carried out in the tax and tax sectors, for example with regard to sales profits. All profits have been changed to the extent that they are taxed as much as everyone else. [[Abg. Böhacker: I want to know that now!]] Only: So far, they have been able to be shipped very elegantly due to the control technology. [[Abg. Böhacker: No, that's not true!]] However, this has been abandoned, and this is of course again criticised. This closure of tax gaps by these federal financial laws is described in an article of today's edition of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" as a violation of trust and faith. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] Yes, but please, if an economic trustee complains that his firm has been preparing for years – and the emphasis is on "for years" – the sale of a company, contracts have been drawn up, and suddenly the sales profit is no longer 25 percent, but only 50 percent, which is distributed over five years... [[Abg. Böhacker: What has been changed, Mrs Colleague?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That's right!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Not the sale profit, but the taxes! – Quote right!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Schuster, stay with your rap!]] Trust and faith that nothing ever changes, there is nowhere in the world. One should just say to the economic fidelity: If he had acted faster, he would have made his negotiating tactics better, he would not need to be ashamed now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: For God's sake, you really have no idea, Mrs. Colleague!]] I have such an idea that I know that we have been able to do a lot with the control technology. Now, of course, the business loyals are sorry because they can no longer work according to their business – and that is true! [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The Bundesfinanzgesetz (Federal Finance Laws) stands for innovation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mr Böhacker! She's right!]] Innovations can be seen from the point of view that business start-ups are also supported and facilitated. That is to say, simplifications in the administrative field are being brought about. For example: We in Austria do not think that anyone who wants to make himself independent in the field of cycled tourism is going to the Chamber of Commerce and is asking what conditions he has to make for it, that he has to be told that a full travel agency concession is necessary. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's a nonsense!]] No, that's it! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mrs Colleagues! That's what the Böhacker says!]] In this area, the Federal Financial Laws are aimed at change. This unlimited travel agency concession includes 16 conditions, with the 16. Edition – you have to imagine – is a one-and-a-half-hour specialist in English – and all of this, just so that someone who rides the inn by bike – so it was in this case – can also show the interior of the country. The person concerned would have been satisfied with English in itself, but one and a half hours of professional English was finally too much. So what did this man do? – He inquired in neighbouring Bavaria at the Chamber of Crafts according to the conditions for this activity. They told him – please, listen! – there is enough a Leumund's certificate plus 40 D-Mark administrative charge, which is converted around 280 S. So, if that is possible in Germany, it should also be possible for us in Austria. The Federal Financial Laws aim at this in these areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997 safeguard the Austrian social standard – which is very important – provide the economy with scope for action, so that if we want to do so together – the opposition must also play a little part – we will continue to be among the richest states in the world. I just want to correct something: The colleague of the "F" Group, Mr Dr. Partik-Pablé, claimed that we were totally indebted. I would like to ask them how it is that we are among the world's most prosperous countries in international comparison. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9823	Mrs Steibl has now spoken. - I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e9890	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to clarify some entrance [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha, come on!]] There is no application for the law on working time under the Feurstein and Steibl budget accompanying laws, as Dr. Haider has stated, but there is a working paper, as you probably have many of them, because you are certainly also good parliamentarians. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But you already said that in ORF, or isn't that right?]] [[Interlocutory calls and calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ridi, use your time for your speech!]] I don't know if you were really listening. I believe that at this point it should be said that we must be careful about the killers of some media. You should ask yourself if this is really for the good of our state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Working time is, among other things, a social dimension. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Bravo!]] The National Council cannot simply pass over the rights of workers without prior social partnership agreement. These are statements that are in the newspapers today and have often been repeated – and that is true. Of course, flexibilization is also part of the collective treaty arrangements, so the social partners are responsible. But one thing I have to say: I know that we have been discussing this for a very long time, but there are few results. I believe that it is also the task of policy to give rise to attacks. Maybe it wasn't the right time, but it's the question whether we all sit here always choose the right time. I did not want to profile myself, but I – like you once or twice – just had a background discussion, and I have tried to give colleagues within our working group a boost to what is also on page 10 of the 1966 Government Labour Agreement – 1996! – perhaps since 1966 it has been a wish to continue in this direction. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1996!]] Here are among other things: Further development of working time regulations, more jobs instead of overtime, income is more to be exchanged for leisure time. I must say that we or I have not called for an increase in working time and have not even thought about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not a matter of the 40 normal working hours or the 38,5 hours, but it has only been stimulated into different flexibilization models in different industries – which is nothing new – and also towards simplification in practice, towards greater design opportunities for workers. I assume that there are a lot of powerful workers. It is also continuing towards the admission of more flexible daily, weekly and annual working hours. We know, of course, that we also need a better anchorage in the field of continuing vocational training, that we need new models in order to continue in this ever-increasing labour market. I have already mentioned that flexibility should be regulated only through an industry collective agreement and that, in all cases, there must be more firm rules in this area. As one of my previous speakers today was saying that there is no uniform opinion within the ÖVP or within the ÖAAB, I can only say that we have discussed this issue very well. This has always been very successful, although the economy and the workers are facing each other. We have not yet tabled a uniform regulation in this respect, but have said that, after the budgetary negotiations, after the negotiations of the structural adjustment laws, we have to deal with this important matter in order to really get on with it and find a consensus. I also believe that it is important to promote more work in the future rather than to finance unemployment. I believe that this is an important point towards the reconciliation of work and family. Even though my colleague, Mrs Haller, thinks that this is not true, I believe that if we are now going to make the childcare facility more flexible at last, we have been talking about it for a long time now, it is also very likely that flexible working hours would be feasible. I've got a message from Tuesday, 9. January, lie down: Minister of Social Affairs for Human Rights: There must be several possibilities for day-to-day work by law. On the front page of today's "standard": President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following "The negotiations must be conducted quickly and efficiently in all cases. In order to tackle unemployment, part of the overtime should not be balanced in money but in leisure time. Discussions on the flexibility of working time are under way." – I am glad that they are in the process. I am also pleased that there has been a discussion today. I just wish we could have led them a little later and more democratically. The ÖGB lists various flexibilization models on several pages in a paper – whether in the field of trade, shift work, or in the field of decade work. It is even so far – and I am pleased about that too – that the ÖGB or the ÖGB women are now also open to part-time work. The labour market service in Styria has now even commissioned a part-time work model: Better part-time jobs are to be created together with the economy through EU funding. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where? Where's that?]] There are in Styria, Graz and the surrounding area. [[Abg. Koppler: It's been a long time!]] But I am really grateful that there has been this for a long time. I hope you hear that all over Austria. Or another report from today: Liebherr now relies on new working time models. – I ask you: Why can't you talk about it? It was never talked about. Finally, I would like to say that there will be no extension or increase in normal working time. But we must talk very well about flexibilising working time, otherwise what the Government's work agreement says would not be credible for me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10033	Deputies Mag. Stadler has spoken about an actual correction. – Deputies! Please start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10055	Mr President. High house! Mrs Steibl has just explained that there would have been only background discussions on the question of extending working time. That's wrong. It is true, rather, that there is a written application concerning a federal law which amends the working time law, given by Member Ridi Steiblund Dr. Gottfried Feurstein. Secondly, Mrs Steibl said that it had never been thought of an increase in working time and that it was not a matter of 40 hours. This is wrong. It is true, rather, that this request includes the following: In point 2 of this request, it says literally: The weekly normal working time can be extended in the individual weeks of a calculation period of four weeks up to 45 hours. It also says: Daily normal working time must not exceed 10 hours. – The daily normal working time is thus extended to 10 hours. In other places, in the explanatory statement, it says: The collective agreement allows the weekly normal working time to be extended within a calculation period of 52 weeks up to 48 hours and daily working hours up to 10 hours. That is why Mrs Ridi Steiblsehr has probably put forward a request in writing which represents more than a background discussion, and it clearly provides for an extension of working time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10112	Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10134	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The savings package is intertwined, the resistance in the population is growing from day to day, and while the students are collapsing on the streets in order to express their displeasure, the Federal Chancellor sets himself off to far socialist China. He seems particularly comfortable there, in socialist China, because there has been no student protests there for many years. [[Calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Coalition Government has proved that there is nothing new in this government agreement except an enormous wave of burden on citizens. The citizens should be spared because the government has been wasting the money for many years. The example of health policy shows exactly what has happened in recent years – and since the takeover of power by Vrannitzky. 1987 is already in the Coalition Agreement – I quote: The reorganisation of hospital funding necessary in this year with the expiry of the currently valid Convention on the Hospital Cooperation Fund will require a fundamental reconception of the entire health care system. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the KRAZAF is running out, and the 1996 Coalition Agreement almost says the same thing as in 1987: comprehensive health reform. – Neither in 2000, nor when it comes to colleague Rasinger, in 3000 this will really be a reform that is tangible, ladies and gentlemen. This agreement contains only Blabla and nothing else, no liabilities, only non-binding announcements. We all know: As nothing has been fulfilled since 1987, no reforms have been carried out, it will also be so in 1996. This coalition government wants to remain in power beyond the year 2000. This means that we will be experiencing the year 2000 without major reforms. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Haider can't become Chancellor in 1998! This is important for Austria! This threat is averted!]] But as the ÖVP sees socialist health policy, it was possible to do so on 13 March. October – this is the day when the great coalition has broken down – see. Mr Parnigoni! Mr Rasinger, a practical doctor, who at least understands something about health policy, as I believe, but is unable to implement his ideas within his group – even as an annex to the SPÖ – on 13 March. On the day of the great coalition, on October, the following said on socialist health policy: The Federal Minister is wrong about the ghost of Loch Ness. They've never been seen, never heard. From time to time, she showed up and then submerged again. – The opinion of the ÖVP on the socialist minister. He would give her a smooth five for her previous behavior in health policy – she is a learned teacher, I have to add – and give her a smooth five for this work, and also attest to her teaching performance. When he pursues the health policy of the SPÖ, which he has carried for so long, he devours in deep depression. – Probably he's not present right now. He may be taking the first psychotherapist session if he knows that this kind of health policy is now being continued. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He also said to this ominous 13th. In October 1995, he found the paper, the health concept of the Federal Minister Krammer to be shocking and that he could not sign it. He'd rather turn around in the grave. Never will I sign this paper, he said. He also said that the Minister was lying, party-politically motivated and unscrupulous. – This is the opinion of the ÖVP, expressed by the health spokesperson Dr. Rasinger, on socialist health policy. Now you've welded back together. You have proved in the new coalition agreement that you signed that you will not be able to reform in the future. That is why Mr Rasinger really fell into a deep depression. With such a thin concept, he says, no reform will be brought together in 3000 – you have not questioned. The woman minister steps from fat cap to fat caps. – Well, now he's working with her again, he's slipping back into the ceiling of socialist health policy and the minister. The ÖVP has already married the socialists again. I am quite shocked that there is nothing to read about the reform in the Coalition Agreement. And I am quite shocked that in yesterday's budget speech by the Federal Minister, I was not able to see at all the slightest approach to reforming health care. Federal Minister! Either you've written the speech and you've only read it down without thinking a lot. If you have written this yourself, I must give you a complete ignorance of the need to reform health care in the future. They have dedicated a total of 17 lines to health policy in a 32-page paper. In these 17 lines, you will write that you should create a binding health care plan. Federal Minister! A binding health care plan was completed by the Austrian Federal Institute of Health in 1985, 11 years ago, and now again, Mr. Collegue – Mr. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: And with the countries completed legally?]] – You are not a colleague in that case. ==References== In November 1994, a binding Federal Hospital Plan was completed and transmitted to the KRAZAF in the annual report of the Austrian Federal Institute for Health 1994/95. [[Federal Minister Mag. Climate: binding agreement with the countries? – Don't tell stories, sir!]] And now you are coming after that already in 1994 before the formation of the government, even though we have already had it and again demand a uniform federal plan, which has long been in place. Put it in place, put it through, don't say with the words of the Federal Minister: To see again, the countries should do it at last! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Leave the cuckoo in the forest!]] You're on the press now, you're the Minister of Finance. You have an important role in the Socialist Party and in the Coalition Government! Make sure it is enforced. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also, Mr Federal Minister, make sure that what you announced in your budget speech yesterday, namely the expansion of hospital hospitals, is not realized, because the hospital hospitals currently have a case value of more than 2 000 S, while the case value of established practical doctors and specialists is about 400 to 500 S. This is a deficit increase that you are planning here. This bears the signature of the ÖVP, which says all the time: Degrading ambulances, going to the established doctors, extending group practices. - Nothing happens! They're expanding the hospital ambulances, the ÖVP signs all of this. This is a scandalous matter according to what has always been claimed by the representatives of the government parties in recent months and years. The structural committee for monitoring has already been referred to. That's really a joke! Federal Minister! Your statements on health policy in your budget speech, we can really forget your concept. There's nothing inside that makes reform possible. We liberals are in favour of reforming social security, because there is no health reform without reforming social security. As Minister Hums has already said, reducing red tape, reducing social security benefits – not that you can buy back retirement periods that normally cost 350 000 S per case and 35 000 S, i.e. a tenth less for health insurance. The social security reform brings 2.5 billion schilling. The introduction of the performance-oriented health care financing system immediately, in the first year, brings 7.5 billion schilling. LKF-forte and not LKF-light after Dr. Rasinger we demand freedom of movement. Immediate introduction! This is long overdue, we should introduce that. Through these two reforms alone, we would save 10 billion schilling and any further burden on citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also call for an extension and not a blockade of preventive medicine, as has been done by the abolition of birth aid. Due to the reduction of birth aid, the precautionary medicine is most seriously affected in the market. The morbidity of mothers and newborns will fall back to the state before the introduction of the mother-child passport in 1975. The achievement of the mother-child passport is no longer to be maintained. This is really a clear cut in the precautionary medicine. What we fail to do in the precautionary sector costs us billions as a follow-up cost. We'll have to pay a lot of money. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are not for sickness benefits. We do not allow the long-term illness, patients who have suffered serious accidents, who are seriously ill, who have to stay in the hospital for one year and longer, to be removed from the health care and to be forced into social assistance. We are entitled to one and a half years' sickness benefit, not voluntary social benefits. We liberals are not for increasing and reintroducing self-retaining – up to 5 000 S, as Mr Rasinger calls for the burden of citizens. We are in favour of reforming social security schemes. There you can balance your budget again and avoid increasing your self retention. Our liberals are not for a reduction of the care allowance, for the care allowance is an achievement that has led to fewer hospital stays, less instructions that the old, sick and disabled people can live a worthy life at home with their families. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals are not for a reduction in the pocket money of the nursing home patients, but we also enter the nursing homes for a worthy life of our sick and old fellow people and do not allow them to be halved to 569 s. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We physicians describe a short-term view as having him after the break of the great coalition, as Lucidum intervallum. This lucid interval has shown me that it actually understands something about health policy. I offer him not only to limit the non-coalition area to monument care and waste management, but also to include health policy in the non-coalition area, to support our requests with us liberals, to form a majority and to push forward the reform in health care. I am convinced that, beyond the year 2000, a constructive health policy will then be ensured, which will ensure the continuation of the high quality standard of our health care system and which will also enable the continued financial viability of our health care system.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10252	The next speaker is Mr Rada. Please, honourable Member. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10274	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in this House! I do not want to accept personally this budget proposed by the Minister of Finance right at the beginning. I am in favour of this, all the more so after so many Lamento speeches have been made throughout the day, that there are no approaches to structural change in this budget at all. I would like to try to prove the opposite on concrete examples. I also do not like to confess, even though it is true to my professional group. I recognise this consolidation package, even if the school sector is affected. First of all, it seems dangerous if savings are made in the field of education, education and science. But it can be said with a calm conscience if the quality assurance of the Austrian school is guaranteed. Quality of the Austrian school is not equal to quantity of lessons. I therefore feel that the structural measures taken to reduce teaching units in the secondary sector are quite pedagogical. This measure not only saves more than half a billion schillings – a positive side effect – but it is much more important that our students' demands be overcome. It has been scientifically proven that our primary school children suffer with 25 hours per week in primary school or in primary school with suddenly 33 and 34 hours corresponding overloads. Some school failure may also have its roots here. It is also repeatedly complained that pupils in higher education should have to fight at 60 and more hours per week. I see with these savings a successful path, the quality on the one hand and the savings target on the other hand guaranteed. This measure does not mean that teachers need to be released, even if some of them have said so. But overtime is very likely to be reduced. This situation will also challenge teachers in a pedagogical manner: Essential new, other teaching and learning methods will have to be applied – as well not the end product as a goal, but rather the way as a goal. School autonomous curriculum provisions will support them accordingly, thus making optimum use of the resources of schools. I also see a positive structural measure in the area of the standard hour model. It is a transition from a teacher-centered education to a student-centered: The calculation is no longer by class, but simply by the number of students, and it is based on the quality of the teaching of the number of pupils to be cared for. As a whole, I can say that there have been enormous savings in the school sector, but quality has still been maintained. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a point that should result in a structural reform; it is already set out in the government agreement, in the coalition paper: This is the field of university education of teachers on the one hand and the training of teachers at the Educational Academy. At present, both training rails are single-track. There are no mutual recognitions and transit possibilities. It will be an essential step towards bringing together these two training systems, creating mutual accountability from one study to another. In this sense, I believe that school, education can live by the Federal Finance Act presented and that decisive steps have been taken for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10328	Mr Grossruck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10349	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you take over a political office, you know what's going on. We know that the political debate is being held hard, that there is a coalition, an opposition, and that the words clash. Ladies and gentlemen! But there is also something like fairness and political boundaries in the political debate that should not be exceeded. I recall the discussion that was held here when Dr. Haider rightly complained when he was attacked, and I recall the discussion between Mrs Mertel and Dr. Haider. Today, Mrs Madl has come forward with an actual correction. If you have character, Mrs Madl, then excuse yourself afterwards from the speaker's desk in all forms with our country captain Dr. Pühringer for what you have actually corrected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They come out and claim against better knowledge that it is not true that the head of the state of Upper Austria was attacked, that he did not get a blow in the belly, but that he was only intoxicated at the steps. Mrs. Madl! You have actually corrected here. It is aware of the fact that there is an advertisement against the unknown in the public prosecutor's office. There are statements from you that there are no witnesses. In fact, there are two Witnesses named who can confirm the incident. And if the incident was not so serious and not so sad, you could almost say: The bad guy thinks he is, Mrs. Madl! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is said to be a scandal when a politician – no matter what direction, from which party he comes from which ideological view – is attacked during his activity, during his statement in a physical and physical manner. Normally, a national consensus would be expected here, regardless of the political outlook. It would be expected that a resurgence will pass through the ranks: This is not the way to make politics in Austria! So one cannot enforce his opinion that there is only the weapon of violence. We've had that before. We have overcome God’s thanks, and we hope that in the future it will not become common for physical attacks to replace arguments and other actions. Mrs. Madl, I'm appealing to you: Cancel your correction! Sorry She's with our country captain, because he didn't deserve that! He works for the rule of law. He does nothing but execute a government decision of the country of Upper Austria, he sees that the rule of law is in order, and then he must be accused of perceiving something he himself has experienced. If you've talked to him, then correct what he said to you, but I assume you have your knowledge from the newspaper or other media reports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Madl: No!]] [[Abg. May. Main: "Kronen-Zeitung", page 14!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If you have your knowledge from the "Kronen-Zeitung", I'm not surprised. [[Abg. May. Main: Read the page 14 of the "Kronen-Zeitung"! No sign from the mayor!]] It may be that this is inconvenient to you, but then you ask the head of state personally. I think he knows better what happened and what he did than the editor of the "Kronen-Zeitung". [[Abg. May. Main: Why should she correct something? It's on page 14 in today's "Kronen-Zeitung"!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] I now come to the statements made by the Federal Minister for Finance, to his budget statement. Federal Minister! You gave an interesting budget speech yesterday, and I have to say in terms of content, that I can fully identify with it, because that is almost the adoption of the bowl-dez-course on a scale one, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no other possibility and no other alternative to reorganise the state budget. [[Abg. Koppler: You don't believe that yourself!]] Therefore, the measures adopted in these two budgets are necessary and important. Minister! I'm coming to the pension system. This package of measures and savings also deals with the maintenance of pensions. It is not about a philosophical or ideological view, but we owe it to the older generation that we convey to it the feeling that pensions are secured and that they must not be afraid of their pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Trenk: For pensions we need jobs!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, especially in order to ensure the pension system in the future, the planned reforms are necessary, because one and one is not three, as you believe, but only two. [[Abg. Trenk: We need jobs to do this!]] If the demographic data vote – and they vote – then it will be so in 2010, 2020 that there will be an active person on a pensioner. At present, two active people are receiving a pensioner. Ladies and gentlemen! We already have this data. Let it break on the tongue! If you know that today's forty-year-olds will have to be received once from those born this year, in 1996, and that today's twenty-year-olds will once receive pensions from those who will be born in the next 20 years, when we know that the decline in birth is very serious, that life expectancy is getting higher and higher – thank God! – and that the period during which the active persons pay the pension will become shorter and shorter as a result of longer periods of study, then, I believe, one can see that the reform is appropriate, necessary and useful. However, it will not remain with a reform, but the pension system must be permanently covered every year, permanently discussed and adapted to the new circumstances. Then we are sure, then today's pensioners do not need to fear the quality and height of their pension, and then there is no discussion about the resolution of the generation contract. I believe that this is responsible policy, and the government has also done this: To take measures and structural measures to ensure that pensions are guaranteed and guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10505	Mrs Madl has referred to an actual correction. Madam Member, I would ask you, however, to respect the Rules of Procedure in the light of the state of the debate. It is only about correcting allegations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10526	Mr Grossruck said that I had said in my actual correction that it was not true that the head of state of Upper Austria had been attacked. I said that's not proven, and that's a difference, please. Secondly, I have said that it has been proved that he has been swerved at a level of the office of the congregation. That's proven.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10562	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Dolinschek is still talking to intermediateists on the way to the speaker's desk.]] Please, honourable Member, you are speaking, you can speak from the pult.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10596	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think all the speakers of the Austrian People's Party have missed the subject today. For them, we are talking about head of state Pühringer, and Mr Grossruck has acted very emotionally here. Mr Grossruck, please read on page 4 of the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) in detail, what really happened. [[Abg. Kiss: What is in the "Kronen-Zeitung" is right! No question!]] Furthermore, Mr Grossruck, we are debating today the tax package, the 1996 and 1997 budgets. [[Abg. Kiss: The "Kronen-Zeitung" – the central organ of the liberals!]] [[Many calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since the dwindling budgets of recent years could no longer be held with cashiers, one has now decided to bind a load package. On the occasion of the 1995 budget, the then Minister of Finance has declared that if the budget deficit of 102 billion shilling cannot be kept, he will withdraw. – Mr Lacina, Minister of Finance, has resigned, and the social partners have made it easy for him to do so. His successor, Minister of Finance Staribacher, has brilliance here in the House by arrogance, and now, after the election in December 1995, we have the load package. It has been tied up, and Mr President, Mr Stumpfully comes out here and says there is no alternative to the savings package II, to this burden package, as I call it. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your The Liberals here in the House have repeatedly pointed out in recent years that, in areas of the privilege economy in Austria, social benefits, transfers are to be saved, but not to be carried out in accordance with the principle of casting, as this coalition has done in recent years. If the meeting of social benefits had been increased, we would have saved ourselves a lot of things now: Over the last few years, the Family Control Fund has been used to stop budget holes and to subsidise maritime transport companies. If these amounts had been used for the families, we would still have some money in this pot today. The same is true of family allowances for children living abroad, where you are finally implementing our long-term demands. These funds could have been saved completely. Why are you only doing this today, why didn't you do that five years ago? This would have helped the Austrian families. Little-heartedly and slowly take place in the privileges of the National Bank. The pension contribution is now slowly increased from 2 percent to 5 percent. The other Austrian employees pay more than 10 percent of the pension contribution; with the service provider's contribution it is more than 22 percent. It is also the case with the EVUs, the social security institutions or the chambers. There is still no mention of the aggregation of social security institutions, and the privileges of after-salesing insurance periods, with the employees of the social security institution still being preferred to others, are still up-to-date. [[Abg. Koppler: Redeem about the privileges of the notaries! Why don't you talk about it?]] And then Mr. Nürnberger goes out here – colleague Koppler, listen to me! – and says that one third of the savings proposals presented here are in the social field. And he goes on to say: However, the social network does not continue to pass through. Now only! Austria is not oversocial, he says, but at the European average. However, I still remember very carefully the statements made by colleagues from the SPÖ. In recent years, it has always been said that Austria's social achievements are in the top European field. I am of course also pleased, as a social politician, that we have certain social achievements, but of course it must also be so that the abuses are not opened to the door and door, but that the social benefits come to those people who need them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the course of the election advertising, it has been stressed again and again: No intervention in existing pensions! This is what Mr Nürnberger has said today. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that in the case of a single pensioner the pension is already reduced if he receives 9 000 s, a married couple already have a reduction from 13,000 p. – If this is not an intervention, then what is an intervention? It has also been said over and over again that it must be shortened among those who have high pensions. If these are high pensions, I don't know what's going on in your brains anymore! A greater degree of justice, says Mr Nürnberger, has been achieved in the system. In my opinion, nothing has happened in terms of harmonisation, because there is still no harmonisation of the various pensions in Austria. In addition, we continue to have a army of early pensioners in Austria. At present it is already 171 000, and next year it will be around 200 000. This is due to the fact that there are several pension systems, that there are pension schemes, that one can already retire after 35 years of work, and another system, the ASVG, in which this is only possible after 45 years of insurance. This is an injustice in the existing pension systems in Austria, so harmonisation must be carried out urgently. At the unemployment rate, we also reached a record limit after the end of the war. We have already reached almost 300 000 unemployed people, and the rate of increase for 30 to 50 years old and for 50 to 60 years old continues to rise. In particular, this increase in the construction and construction sector, in the health sector, in the teaching professions and in the technical professions. On the other hand, the number of registered open positions is falling significantly, by 26.6 percent compared with the previous year. Statistics are also impressive with regard to job seekers, because for 4 159 job seekers there are only more than 3 396 registered open apprenticeships. There is also a need for action in this area, ladies and gentlemen. There must be action here! And now for flexible working time: Vergestnich and Sallymutter say that flexible working time and expansion of daily working hours only with time adjustment and without the overtime cost. Ladies and gentlemen, this means nothing but a reduction in working time and less merit. Why does someone want to do overtime today? Why does someone buy a longer working time? – Because he deserves more because he wants to afford something because he wants to buy something to set up the apartment, to build houses and so on. You want to take that away by increasing overtime taxation to these people too! [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Haider says something different than you! Don't work anymore, but work less!]] And Member Höchtl, the chairman of the Austrian Workers' and Workers' Federation, says: No extension of working time, but more availability of workers! – Do you know what that means, Mr. Feurstein? That means work on call. Do you want the workers to sit at home and wait until the boss calls: You, now I have a job, now you're coming to work!Unknown term type: "%s".? The worker will then be less employed, but he is temporarily bound. This cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. A solution can only be caused by a longer calculation period. We now have the opportunity of 13 weeks, you can discuss it. However, we also need to discuss other models – annual working time models, half the year and so on – and above all, we need to discuss a change in the trade regulations. The representatives of the Chamber of Commerce are fully attached to the trade order, which is a last resort of the reserves. The trade regulation must finally be liberalized so that people can make themselves more independent, because today it is the case that the person sitting in the Chamber of Commerce determines whether he allows a competitor. Of course, no one is curious about this, and that needs to be changed as urgently as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== It has always been said that monthly salary must not be agitated. I am also of the opinion that this should not be agitated. The favourable taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary should continue to exist. And what do you do now? – Now you go here and you enter it through the back door, so to speak. This new method of calculation, which is now being introduced, will also make the 13th and 14th years more effective. Monthly salary tax more taxed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that, in all these measures, which will be decided there – change in the single wage reduction, reduction in special expenditure, taxation of private life insurance and so on – the social partners agree. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the Chambers agree to this tax package. On the other hand, they protest, such as the head of women of the ÖGB. The Federal Chancellor has demasked himself in the course of election advertising and to this day, and has demasked himself as a fairytale narrator. He said: Women's rights must not be affected! – What about the removal of the birth grant and the reduction of the karenz money, ladies and gentlemen? It's a cut in women's rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] A reduction is also made in the amount of care. For me, it is simply incomprehensible – and it should also be incomprehensible for you, Mrs Silhavy – that there is a reduction in the amount of care money in the case of pocket money. If someone is in the house, this pocket money will be cut by half, and that is incomprehensible to me! At all events, the whole load package, ladies and gentlemen, is anything but balanced!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10707	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Tegischer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10728	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that all Members of this House are seeking a secure future for our country. If we look at the expenditure and revenue of the 1996 and 1997 budgets, one thing needs to be clear: The goal set by the Federal Government is a medium-term consolidation rather than a short-term one. In the present situation, as we now have it, fiscal consolidation is a key factor in the future achievement of the main economic policy objectives: Ensuring overall economic stability, the international competitiveness of Austria, the long-term financing of the social state and the improvement of employment through dedicated employment programmes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The federal financial laws for the years 1996 and 1997 are an indispensable, therefore courageous and certainly not easy-to-bear decision to save. Of course, savings measures are unpopular measures, and some feel that they are unjustified. Some interest groups protest against this savings package and feel it as a burden package. If I follow up the discussions of the different social classes of the population, I feel that the citizen is now looking for and needs to be held and trusted. There's no fear parallels. Only through solidarity and responsible policies will we together form the future of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Austrians all know – even if we have problems with it – that we have to save, but we can't press for a moment before the responsibility for the coming generations. That is why the government has not hesitated for a long time. It has drawn up two federal financial laws within a very short time, namely those for 1996 and 1997, thus proving its ability to act. I often hear, particularly from the opposition, that the consolidation programme for the public budgets of the Federal Government, the countries, municipalities and social security schemes has been tied up because of the Maastricht criteria. I must contradict that, because the federal financial laws for 1996 and 1997, as they are now present, ensure the necessary scope for the federal budget. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, the current and future main task of the State is the long-term financing of the social state, because only in this way is social peace guaranteed. I see it as my main task and call on everyone not to spread resignation and fear, but to act optimistically and strengtheningly on our fellow citizens. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Solidarity, together we are strong! – Often it is said that these are strained keywords. In my opinion, they have lost nothing of their effect, on the contrary, they are more important than ever. In this context, I would also like to stress the role of the social partners. I would now like to turn to a particular area of active labour market policy. As a social worker, new employment impulses, as they provide for the federal financial laws, are especially dear to me. Funding, as envisaged by special programmes and measures, will create new projects and develop existing ones that highlight the resumption of employment. The labour market policy objective will focus on the following areas: Firstly, financial resources for reintegration and first integration into the labour market, second qualification by training and training, thirdly safeguarding current jobs. By joining the EU, offers and promotions under the European Social Fund can now also become effective for the following groups: Long-term unemployed, older workers, emergency workers, disabled people, difficult to find, difficult to find, disadvantaged young people and women with problems of entry. I know, as social pedagogical leader of a social-economic firm in East Tyrol, which includes all the above-mentioned groups, how indispensable such measures are, not only for the individual who is brought back into the labour market through work training, targeted care and advice, but also for the regional economy. The aim is to make environmentally friendly and energy-saving production techniques and regional-related raw materials an example for private enterprises. The fact that these projects work well proves most of the already existing socio-economic enterprises. In the company I co-founded in Osttirol, for example, hand-crafted skimmings, furniture and toys are manufactured and marketed directly from the wood raw material, of which sufficient is available. There are no problems with sales. Again: An important contribution to active labour market policy is measures to integrate people with disabilities and people with disabilities into the labour market process. Personal accompaniment with work start-up through work assistance or coaching, as it is now called modern, or just support and support, is already proving successful. In the economic sector, a lot has changed in recent years: Market conditions, production processes, new materials, work organisation. At the same time, more and more skilled workers are required. Labour force with low or no qualifications can no longer keep pace with these changed conditions. The changeover to another job often fails. A building block-like interconnected system ensures that the individual sections range from professional design and orientation to special training for certain production techniques. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again: New, unconventional and courageous ways must be taken. I am convinced that the federal financial laws for the years 1996 and 1997 create the necessary framework conditions for a hopeful and positive future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10826	Mr Johann Schuster is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10850	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tegischer of the Social Democrats has understood how to bring a climate improvement to this House with her speech. Not only is the Federal Minister of Finance called climate, but this style is also needed. I congratulate them on this successful speech on climate change. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday, 15th. January of this year, Parliament has constituted itself, and it has taken place the fishing-observatories. The vow formula is: "They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." Why do I say that? Because I believe that, especially if the Angelobung is so short behind, Members have to think about what they have promised. If Mr Madl here, in an actual amendment, said that Mr Landesführer of Upper Austria was saddened, that nothing has been proved, I would remind her of her vow which she has given here in this House, and we expect everyone to stick to it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] High house! The two coalition parties have jointly decided on a work programme, and they want to work together for Austria in the next few years. It is said in the preamble of this programme: "The two coalition partners want to launch the reforms necessary to guarantee Austria a similar good development beyond the end of the century, as it has been recorded in the past 50 years. This requires a high level of responsibility, openness and commonness." There is the word "common" inside, and I hope that the Members of the two government parties will succeed in putting this common ground in the front line. High house! It is clear that it will be an essential task of this government to secure, consolidate and improve Austria's economic location, guarantee jobs and create new ones. But one should and must be said: Jobs can only be secured and strengthened if the attitude is positive in the families and the workers. I am therefore saying: The more family there is, the less state is required. Ladies and gentlemen! The family has a very high political significance because it is the protection of freedom from totalitarian claims. And children are just the living impulse for future wills. In a society, in a free society, ladies and gentlemen, without uncles, without aunts, in which adults have neither nieces nor nephews, the ability to communicate and co-humanity dies. And already today, there is a certain insanity of child hostility in central areas. High house! What's that about? – One thing is clear: It can't be just the money. If Austria, as a member country of the EU and the OECD comparison, is at the forefront of what is happening to family support, we know that, despite these benefits, birth rates have fallen steadily. But who thinks, ladies and gentlemen, that the importance of marriage is no longer taken seriously. A survey conducted by the Institute of Demoscopy of the Academy of Sciences in young people shows that of 1,500 surveyed Austrians 72 percent consider marriage to be not obsolete but particularly necessary. As in the case of a responsible family father, the state and the Federal Minister of Finance no longer allow him to spend more than he has. Let's ask ourselves: Should it still be a little more? Is that the goal of democracy in which we live to continue to imitate ourselves? It should be discussed that there is still no need for more. Because not the more makes happy and satisfied, but substantially different values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! From the recent census, we know – the preparation by the Central Statistical Office has now been presented to the public – which families have lost the highest number in the last ten years. – They are the children’s rich families, those with four and more children. The number of these families has decreased by 41 percent. Although the financial support in Austria was great, I must say that this has not contributed to the fact that families have more children. I have already mentioned that money alone is not crucial for the establishment of families and is also happy. It is not only the family ministry, but also many other areas – you can easily show them –: It is the environment, the health sector, the labour market situation or the school and education situation that are essential to whether family-friendly policies are made in the country or not. I therefore appeal to ourselves, to the coalition parties, that we should do a lot in the area of family in the next few years. We must first and foremost create a family-friendly mood. That's the most important thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some of my demands for ourselves are: tax-free existence minimum also for children, further improvement in the billing of child training periods to the pension, comprehensive, needs-based offer of childcare facilities and better offer of part-time jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Upper Austria must also save. Upper Austria is exemplary, I must say, in the promotion of families. But to say one thing I'm allowed to say at the end: The Austrian People's Party, through its programme, acknowledges an essential statement: The family with two parents and children is our guiding principle. And with a quote I would like to conclude: It is clear that the opposition has its right and claim that the government parties have their right and claim to express their opinion. But success is if you're better at an idea, ladies and gentlemen, and the government parties are just about this one idea better.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10946	Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e10968	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to deal with a thesis represented today by Professor Van der Bellen. He meant that the fiscal criteria of Maastricht are driving Europe into recession. In this context, we must ask ourselves: For example, what would the failure to comply with various criteria of indebtedness mean for Austria? What would it mean to see how the government budget continues to move towards increased debt? – This would essentially lead us to take notice of public debt to a higher degree, while at the same time growing private wealth. And if we have considered the Wifo distribution study carefully, we have clearly recognized that there is hardly any type of expenditure of the State that has such a high degree of privilege of the highest income in that country as public debt. It is clear that the beneficiaries of public debt and the repayable loans of the State are primarily those groups in the population with high capital deposits. At the same time, however, this means that increased public debt from the point of view of social distribution is a problematic matter. What does it mean for Europe not to accept certain fiscal limits on indebtedness? . Before the Maastricht criteria were decided, the International Monetary Fund pointed out that if all the major countries of Europe were at the same time rigid, this would result in Europe creating a recession itself. This was said by the International Monetary Fund in 1992. But he has not said anything about the forthcoming recession in 1993, which has completely broken into Europe without regard to the Maastricht criteria. In this respect, it is also not necessary to assess, regardless of the type of savings, whether savings measures must always lead to recession. I believe that, in this context, a much larger problem is that, despite international efforts, we still have a far too high level of interest rates in Europe and that the Deutsche Bundesbank is still driven by the Spanish fear of hyperinflation, although we are dealing with average inflation rates of 2.5 percent in Europe. It is therefore much closer to the conclusion that there are obviously still some open invoices from the German unification, namely the increased interest rate policy of the Deutsche Bundesbank not only from the Federal Republic of Germany, but mainly from all over Europe. I therefore believe that, in this context, efforts must go primarily towards reducing interest rates at European level, because this is the decisive parameter for the development of economic growth and investment on our continent. A second point, which is of greatest relevance at European level, is, of course, the implementation of the trans-European networks' projects in order to create additional growth and additional employment. A third point, which is, of course, essential and centralized by Austria at the forthcoming EU Government Conference, is to give employment and full employment absolute priority on the European Union agenda. The question therefore arises: If saving does not lead to a recession, what kind of saving, what kind of consolidation should then be sought? In this context, we have a number of examples from the past. At the time, the bourgeois Swedish government has tried to take a radical saving course. This has led the unemployment rate to quadruple. The British Government has taken a saving course which has led to the fact that the separation between the poor and the rich in Britain has already become so unbearable that even the Council of British Industrialists calls for an increase in real wages in Great Britain. That's where the question arises: Why do British industrialists make such a claim? This is perfectly logical: Despite social deregulation, despite the non-signatory of the European Union's social protocol, the sole focus on exports in the UK has not been successful. At the same time, there has been a sharp decline in purchasing power in the UK, a significant fall in domestic demand, to such a great extent that even British industrialists are already concerned about the purchasing power in Britain. It was built in the past here in the Hohe Haus of the more often Rolf Dahrendorf. I would just like to point out that his Commission has only recently published a report on the development of wealth in a society and its social context, in which there are a number of proposals to be put on the agenda of the British Government, when there are changes in the elections, proposals which have long been on the political agenda in Austria or have already been implemented. In this context, the question should therefore be asked: In view of these experiences, what should the Austrian path of fiscal consolidation look like? – First of all: There can be no savings package that no one costs, even if various parts of the opposition try to spread this impression here. Secondly, there are, of course, limits to ideal models of rehabilitation in the area of political and social enforceability. I therefore believe that, with all criticism of various individual measures represented by different stakeholders, the overall objective of a closer analysis must be pursued, and this overall objective is essentially to consolidate the public budget while maintaining and expanding social justice and paying particular attention to the employment situation in Austria. If one accepts these two priority objectives, it must be noted that what the Federal Government has presented here is to a large extent in line with these two objectives. First: The tax measures saved the less-income groups, not only from the point of view of social justice, but also from the economic point of view of the people. It makes sense for the people to make sense because incomes in the lower income categories are much stronger in purchasing power, consumption and demand than in the case of higher incomes. It is therefore not only right from the point of view of social justice, but also from a macroeconomic perspective that the principle of social justice has been observed here. Secondly, By not increasing the additional wage costs for enterprises, but on the contrary, by providing additional support for investment and additional measures to stimulate employment, this package presented here by the Minister of Finance suggests that Austria is probably the only country in Europe with a budget proposal so far, where one thinks not only about saving but also about social justice and employment. In view of these facts, it is therefore entirely up to the hair when, as Mrs Haller did, a "anti-Austria package" is spoken of. Just the opposite is right: With this budget, Austria sets internationally recognized standards! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It should also be allowed to break down on the tongue the kind of argument that has been put forward here today by Mr Haider. He said almost every third sentence: "create things again." Yes, what does that mean, "bringing things back in order"? This implies the possibility of the recovery of a seemingly glorious past, a past that, when it was present, was again and again disillusioned by the FPÖ. Now that this present is a past, it is once glorified by the FPÖ. This is the double density of your policy, which does not answer the real problems of the Austrian population! But the people's answer to this double-landing is lucky to have you on the 17th. ==References==
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11052	Mr Neugebauer has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11073	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! Many of today's debates have been taking a look at history and have become more and more evident in me that the 13th ==References== It is an essential milestone in a different assessment of policy in Austria last December, which has culminated in a sentence on the budget speech of the Federal Minister, namely, when he said that a deficit in itself is no longer an effective tool to create employment. What has obviously been in favour of budgetary and economic policy since 1970 has been replaced by a different form of policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, much has been said about the balance of the measures. I congratulate anyone who has this sensitive pharmacist scale on being able to estimate each lot of the individual measures as accurately as possible. It is undoubtedly not the already described androsch syndrome in this package. But I think that the response from the population is the best measure of weighting. One could say that there is a uniformly temperated dissatisfaction or acceptance – without a doubt with some outsiders, as the current discussion at the universities of employees and students shows. There is no doubt that in the last few days and weeks, things should have been handled a little earlier in the structural debate. At this point, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, and you could see this clearly in the media in the months of January and February, because the discussions between the employees of the public service and the Federal Government have almost permanently taken place in front of the running camera – that the contribution of the public service to the consolidation package has undoubtedly had a signal function for all further measures. The increase in staff costs of 15.7 billion schilling and thus the freezing of the volume of expenditure at the level of 1995 were indicated to us, and we have been able to convince a very considerable majority of our colleagues that the common interest results in an approval of this consolidation programme. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, also dependent on the emotional willingness of a professional group to comment on it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the emotional willingness to make a significant contribution is at present at risk, for example, of our colleagues in the executives, who make sure that student protests take place in orderly paths, when left or right marginal groups take a stand against the executives by force. There employees of the public service work in compliance with the laws and have to be ordered and threatened by some Rowdies. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the emotional willingness is also given if the savings in staff – a recording stop – are accepted, but not spoken of in return of a job stop. Look today at the burden of justice, the burden on finance, but also at the burden of the already quoted colleagues of the executive bodies. Mr Schaffenrath has made the teacher's office representative responsible for making savings in the field of education. It also owes an obsolete service right and the remuneration structure. However, she did not add what she meant. Unfortunately, I have little to do with this debate. Because the Pragmatization, i.e. the public service relationship, is so much about public service and the administration of sovereignty as something special, I can say: It is the service provider's task to assure his colleagues that he will also offer them a lifelong service relationship. Since pensions are argued with many prejudices, I invite you to familiarise yourself with the differences in the principle of insurance in accordance with the ASVG and the principle of care in accordance with the Pension Act 1956. I believe that a business-psychological culture must also be incorporated in the public service. There will be no increase in motivation if one is constantly engaged in public service and criticised that the colleagues responsible for infrastructure in our society are not working with special commitment. The employees in the public sector With their 16-billion contribution, service no doubt went to the limit of the future. I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for pointing out in his statement of Government the particular burden of public service, some of which are inadequable. I have no reason not to believe him, because he kept his government statement on a Wednesday, and so it was not a Sunday speech. I am particularly grateful to Mr Vice-Chancellor, who has broken a lance for professional civil service by saying that the members of the public service are citizens of civil rights with a federal constitutional guarantee. If today's discussion – and I have tried to follow a lot of contributions – is a revision, then one could write: everyone expects the state to be economical in general but generous in particular. I thank you for many very constructive contributions to the debate, but can't begin with all those who have been listed, who can't be everything, but who didn't contain a sentence on where resources should come from to deal with the proposals. The common denominator is – and this is through all the contributions to debate – that a consolidated government budget is the basis for better economies and for more employment. This is, ladies and gentlemen, but not the smallest common denominator. We can be proud of these because the smallest common denominator is – at least in terms of fraction – the strongest factor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11140	Two speakers have actually been reported. I now give the floor to Mr Freund. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11164	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State Dr. Bartenstein! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! After weeks of tough and tough negotiations, it has now succeeded in reaching agreement between the two largest parties in our country on the 1996 and 1997 budgets and the creation of a new government. This is very much welcomed by the population, as it is based on stable conditions in our country. This budget, however, is not only a savings budget, which is extremely necessary, but it is also intended to promote infrastructure measures in order to create and secure work. This is so important because the labour market has major problems and rural development requires new initiatives. I therefore welcome the fact that additional construction investments of around 2.5 billion Schilling will be freed by increasing housing support. Impulses are particularly important in the construction sector, as they also open up new opportunities for the construction sector. As early as July 1995, a social partners' programme had been set up on the initiative of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel, which provided for a strengthening of the activities of the Federal Property Society, in particular as regards the sale of federal buildings. In November 1995, Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Ditz was able to report that under the BIG Act, projects over 3 billion schilling have already been developed to give new impetus to the construction industry. With the financial resources from real estate sales, the employment-effective new construction of buildings and building renovations to federal buildings must be promoted. For renovation measures alone at federal buildings in Upper Austria, 1.3 billion schilling would be necessary, said Landeshauptmann Dr. Pühringer in the Oberösterreichische Schulbauprogramm. The Federal budget, however, provides only 100 million schilling for Upper Austria's Federal Schools. There are a number of federal schools in Linz and the Federal School Centre in Schärding. Mr Finanzminister! I call on you to take these facts into account and to respond positively to them and to use proceeds from privatizations of state-owned enterprises for federal buildings. In order to stabilise the labour market and create new job opportunities, an offensive would be essential for SMEs and improving the transport structure in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If there were not so many bureaucratic obstacles and excessive regulations, I would hire more employees, I would be sued again and again by entrepreneurs on business visits. We must do everything together to increase the attractiveness of self-employed entrepreneurship through less bureaucracy. I appeal to the SPÖ, the coalition partner, to help tackle debureaucratisation. The aim should be to ensure location security and equality of competition with foreign providers. The EU accession has brought many benefits to Austria, especially for its border area – I can tell from my constituency – but it must also not be overlooked the disadvantages. The different rate of VAT on Germany – which is 5 percent lower than with us – of course also poses great problems for our businesses and also for agriculture. The purchase power flow from the Inn quarter to Bavaria alone was 525 million schilling in the first half of 1995. There must be reversed. Of course, the improvement of infrastructure is vital for rural life and economies. Modern communication and transport links are of central importance here. I therefore support and call for efforts to speedily expand the transport infrastructure, for example the Neumarkt-Schärding railway line, which is already working hard, as well as the Wels-Ried-Braunau-Simbach railway line. Considering that truck heavy traffic at the Suben border crossing has increased by 46 percent compared with January 1996 to January 1995, and that already more than 1.2 million heavy vehicles cross the border each year, the railway expansion is urgently needed to relocate the truck traffic there. [[Abg. Sigl: Bravo!]] The budget provides 11 billion schilling for the expansion of the railway infrastructure, which I very much welcome. A modern management of regional transport in the Ried and Braunau area would be an important measure for businesses and employees. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ing. Maderthaner.]] Road development in the Salzburg area is also an urgent necessity, and the Innkreis motorway needs a renewed renovation of the surface. Agriculture is, of course, an important factor for the economy and for securing jobs in rural areas. We can maintain and promote the farm work by continuing, in addition to food production and landscape design, the path already started, which Mr Molterer has proposed. It goes primarily towards ecologisation, better producer prices and direct payments for farmers. In the field of renewable energy sources such as biomass and hydropower, the potential needs to be realized and, through attractive feed-in tariffs, also obtained an economic basis. From this point of view, I also appeal to the Minister of the Interior to help the rule of law to break through and to support the Upper Austrian head of state Dr. Pühringer so that this can happen. In this sense, the present draft budget includes important measures which make a major contribution to stabilisation in our country so that the future can be made positive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11214	Mrs Horngacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11235	Mr President. High house! Much has changed since accession to the EU. The price decrease was greater than expected. The system of compensation makes our farmers fully aware of how dependent they have become on policy. It would be preferable for any farmer to have a cost-effective price for his products, but we will not have to expect that in the future either. The less the Austrian family has to spend on food – in 1955 it was about half the income one had to spend on food; last year it was only 16 percent – the more it has available for other economic goods, and this depends and brings general prosperity. The conversion of the promotion system has been quite well managed. Now it is about improving where there are still hardships. I consider the environmental programme to be good and necessary. It compensates for the abandonment of income-enhancing funds, but also takes into account steep land management and the alpine economy. This programme is to be further expanded, especially in the mountain area, because it takes into account the careful handling of our livelihoods, namely with air, water and earth, and is thus a programme of sustainable management. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Hormonal use as a growth promoter and genetic changes in food production must continue to be absolutely rejected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some people today believe that food could be imported from cheap world markets. This could be done – however, one cannot import the farmers and the rural family. Recently, a delegation from Russia was with us, visiting the agricultural schools and agriculture. The final result was that the Head of Delegation said to us: "If we had these farmers in Russia, we would be less concerned. Because we are still worried about the diet of the population – you don't know this anymore!" Being a farmer does not mean being a food producer, but it is a socially necessary and important form of life to which the entire population cannot give up. In Tyrol, for example, the management of the high-regions protects against avalanches and murals. Tourism advertises with the beauty of the landscape created by the farmers. Our aim must therefore be to ensure the comprehensive management in our country, especially in the alpine region. The rural families with their farms are the guarantee of maintaining a well-kept and managed cultural landscape in Austria for the future. But the farm family is more: It is a stable element in society. There's little divorce. The average Austrian family has 1.5 children, the farm family 2.4 children. In addition, farmers' children have the best conditions to develop into life-seeking people. You have enough space to unfold. You see father and mother working together. They see that only those who have sowed can reap. And the children often grow up together with siblings and several generations, and they still experience at the yard the birth and death of humans and livestock as something natural. And we need to learn more to see the world with the eyes of the children again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] According to survey results, our farmers still love to be a farmer – despite heavy physical work and relatively low income – because they have a full life, according to their own data. Our task now is to create the necessary framework conditions so that the promise that the coalition agreement clearly sets out the safeguarding of the rural family farms is also realized. Agriculture is the last chapter in the Government Declaration of our Federal Chancellor. When I take the train to Tyrol, I see the importance of the Austrian farmers quite differently. I'm thinking of the text Grillparzers, which means: "...it's a good country, It is worth the fact that a prince has come to an end! Where have you looked like that? Look around where the eye turns, Laughs to the bride like the groom!" And this beautiful land and this beautiful landscape is maintained by agriculture, with diligence, and has been impressively influenced by the centuries. I see a lot of landscape and between it and another city. I only hope that the real importance of agriculture will be reflected in a later declaration of government in a better place!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11341	Mr Salzl is speaking on behalf of the last speaker. – Still speaking time 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11363	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's "Kurier" writes under the title "Craught in Debt Case" that interest rates for our debts are growing much faster than our economy. The Wifo locates a monetary division of Europe and expects far less economic growth for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Although we will meet the Maastricht criteria for re-indebtedness at the end of 1997, we will be far above the level of total debt due to the tax package: instead of 60 per cent, it will be 72.8 per cent at the end of 1997. This means, however, that we will face the same dilemma in the 1998 budget as we do today. I can already imagine how the Minister of Finance is going to make himself here and explain to us: There's nothing you can do! The EU and the low economic growth rates in Europe are to blame; international economic development is to blame. The Federal Chancellor will be here and perhaps say according to the motto of the election slogans: I will not allow anyone to get into the bag of the Austrians! But if someone gets into the bag of the Austrians, that will be me, Federal Chancellor Vranitzky! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is grotesk today to thank red and black Members for this load package. It is a burden package, Minister of Finance, because the burden is far more than the savings. It is not the Members who should thank you here, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you – but very different from what you imagine – for the many Austrians, especially those, ladies and gentlemen, who are now so shamefully taken into their pockets. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Is that Dr. Salzl?]] [[Abg. Head: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The development ahead of us points out that in the next few years much will change for Austria, but also in the political field. The opening of the East will become a huge competition and will lead to a massive deindustrialisation of Austria. Therefore, our chance is not with the international large companies, because they are the first to wander, but they are in the small and medium-sized areas. These are the establishments that are true to the location and create reliable and safe jobs. There are measures to be taken to ensure that there is a ground-breaking and employment offensive, and that such a one should be favoured by tax. Instead, you do the opposite: One introduces energy taxation instead of reducing labour costs. This alone costs about 8 000 jobs in this area. It will also lead to a loss of around 10,000 jobs in the construction industry. Furthermore, there is a tax on works contracts with a very complicated regime, which will greatly increase bureaucracy – although we already have a much too high bureaucracy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: It's called work contracts, not work contracts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where does this often remain the promised red tape? Where are the promised structural reforms, for example in the social field? Where does the promised merger of social security institutions remain? Where does the reduction of privileges remain in this area, where, for example, employees can buy their retirement periods at a special rate? – There is a lack of real structural measures, ladies and gentlemen, while on the other hand, one wants to save on health care in the future and limit health care to one year, because the 1995 deficit will amount to 2.8 billion schilling and in 1996 even 3.6 billion schilling. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guggenbichler can imagine a reduction to a period of one year – a reduction of less than one year will not be possible for him, he says. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who is this? We don't have a Guggenbichler!]] A moderate increase in contributions would be an appropriate solution for him. – That is to say, it is already being considered about increases in social security contributions! Ladies and gentlemen! These are the problems that this is about. There must be a rapid change, otherwise there will be a bad awakening for many Austrians in 1998, especially for our economy, and we will find the same problem with the 1998 budget as we have today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11449	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure I assign to the Committee on Budgets the Government's documents 70 and 70 of the Supplements and 71 and 71 of the Supplements. 3rd. Point Government template: Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Estonia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (78 of the Supplements) 4. Point Government template: Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lithuania, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (79 of the Supplements) 5. Point Government template: Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Latvia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11514	We now come to points 3 to 5 of today's agenda. These are: Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Estonia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (78 of the Supplements), Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lithuania, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (79 of the Supplements) and Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Latvia, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols (80 of the Supplements). The preliminary consultation of these proposals in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. For the debate, it was agreed that one speaker per group would speak with a speaking time of 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11559	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of a long day with many pro- and counter-reds, I am very pleased to speak on a subject to which I actually only expect positive contributions. [[Abg. Kiss: Please take a moment!]] With the conclusion of these Association Agreements, the three Baltic States are fully involved in the pre-accession strategy of the already associated countries Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. This will facilitate any later entry into the internal market. In my opinion, this Association Agreement is the result of a reasonable integration policy, which was always supported, supported and supported by us, especially by Foreign Minister Dr. Mock and now by Vice-Cancecian Dr. Schüssel. It must also be remembered at this point that especially the Baltic countries have suffered a particularly hard fate. After barely 20 years of independence, they experienced the brutal access of the red-brown alliance of Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet regime. Finland, Estonia and Latvia should fall within the scope of the USSR; Lithuania, two thirds of Poland and other areas around the Carpathians should be divided according to the Molotov Ribbentrop Pact. The Nazis set up their concentration camps and the Soviets set up their camps to transport them to the Gulag Archipelago. – Even today is unknown where two heads of state remained of the time. Even though there is hardly any mention of the countless victims of Soviet rule – what I, by the way, consider a very strange phenomenon – we must all be clear that huge wounds have remained – wounds that do not heal so quickly. This is why respect for minority rights must also be given very close attention in these Baltic countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Faster!]] Russians now living in the Baltic countries cannot do anything for the crimes of their ancestors. Today, the Baltic countries are no longer half-sovereign states, but sovereign countries whose right is to decide for themselves which alliances they are going to take, which way they are going, and they have chosen the way to Europe. We will support them on their way to Europe because they are an essential part of the European cultural area for us. The agreement to be reached today creates the appropriate framework for political dialogue. The basis has been created for the very courageous path to Europe to be stopped or even reversed. And the way is right. The recession in adjustment seems to have been overcome, the state enterprises are largely privatized, inflation is under control, the unemployment rate is stable, and the level of education is increasing steadily. In total, the economic climate for Eastern Europe in these countries is very positive. These encouraging developments are still supported by this agreement. The technical assistance, the exchange of experts, the aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, all these are measures that will help to spread the economy in these countries, and I therefore ask you to agree to this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11616	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kammerlander. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11645	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This is about the ratification of a Europe Agreement, which we will also agree with, but I would like to make some critical comments because I believe it is essential for us Austrian Members, especially, for a country which has been very committed to the fact that the European Union must also open up to Eastern European countries, and which has been very strongly committed to the fact that this opening is taking place over a foreseeable period. This Europe Agreement, which we are adopting today, replaces the free trade zones of the Baltic States, and the European Parliament - I would like to tell you this - has, in principle, not criticised any objections to this agreement, but I must add that what my previous speaker has so euphorically spoken of, namely that these countries are not on their way to Europe, on their way to the European Union – that the economies of these countries are in no way able to meet the criteria of economic and monetary union within this time period, which is constantly being considered, namely after the Intergovernmental Conference – more precisely - above all, to meet the convergence criteria of economic and monetary union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] - I don't put it on. Experience with the free trade area shows that the expectation that the Baltic countries can export to the countries of the European Union has not been fulfilled. The European Union imports into the Baltic countries to a far greater extent. In other words, they are not able to fill in their import quotas. This situation will intensify even further with this agreement, because there is also a mutual ban on discrimination against goods. And such a ban will always be at the expense of the weaker countries. Furthermore, the safeguard measures for the economies of the Baltic Republics will only be possible for a transitional period. This agreement therefore constitutes a purely economic agreement, and the question of social security or the question of environmental protection is not addressed in any way. A few words – that is essential, and I think we have to think about them – are still to be said about the free movement of workers, which, while providing for freedom of movement for workers, for nationals of the other party, this freedom of movement depends on the fact that the evidence of professional competence for the Baltic states is not yet recognised. This Europe Agreement, as my previous speaker said, is being sold to the Baltic States as a first step towards the European Union. I believe that, if we agree with this agreement today, we must nevertheless see critically enough that this is not a first step towards the European Union, but that it is a consolation of these countries, a delay and only a hope that they can be predicted, which cannot be fulfilled and which will not be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11700	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are entering the voting procedure. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately from each of the proposals. First of all, we shall be voting to approve the conclusion of the present State Treaty, the Annexes and Protocols in 78 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. I shall now vote on the fact that, in all authentic language versions of the text of the Treaty, the identification of the text of the Treaty, together with its Annexes and protocols, is carried out in accordance with Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Law is issued by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to give a relevant sign. – This is majority voting. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the Annexes and Protocols in 79 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. I shall now vote on the fact that, in all authentic language versions of the text of the Treaty, the identification of the text of the Treaty, together with its Annexes and protocols, is carried out in accordance with Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Law is issued by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to give a relevant sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. We are now voting to approve the conclusion of the present State Treaty, together with its Annexes and protocols in 80 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. Finally, I shall vote on the fact that, in all authentic language versions of the text of the Treaty, the identification of the text of the Treaty, together with its Annexes and protocols, is carried out in accordance with Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Law is issued by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to give a relevant sign. – This is lucidity. Accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-03-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00014_d7e11786	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have received requests 149 A/(E) to 152/A(E). Questions 336/J to 362/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
